I direct a question to the Minister for Air. I refer to the Minister's statement of 6th December in which he reported an injury to a passenger flying in a dual Mirage aircraft from Butterworth. As the Minister said that the accident was due to a known defect, I ask: Has it been the policy to allow defective aircraft to fly with or without passengers. If so, does the Minister intend to alter this policy? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air, In answer to a previous question he said that it was not policy to allow defective aircraft to fly. Why then did he, on 6th December 1969, announce that an accident to a passenger in a dual Mirage aircraft at Butterworth was due to a known defect? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister for Health or Cabinet given any consideration to the suggestion from the National Health and Medical Research Council that all forms of advertising of cigarettes, especially on radio and television, be restricted? If not, will either the Minister or Cabinet do so? If they have considered this matter already, when might one expect a decision to be made public? 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has made a recommendation to the Government. 
As a West Australian I am completely in sympathy with the suggestion made by  Senator Murphy.  It is true, as  Senator McManus  said, that this has been talked about for a long time. I remember that on one occasion  Senator Wright  pointed out the common sense of altering sitting times. I recall that when the amendments to the House of Representatives Standing Orders were going through,  Mr Wentworth,  a back bencher in those days, moved, if my memory serves me correctly, for a 4-day week. This was very nearly carried. The suggestion was very well supported in our Party rooms but finally, as  Senator McManus  has said, it drifted away without any action being taken on it. 
I just make a comment to  Senator Anderson,  because it is very difficult for members of Parliament from the bigger States to appreciate fully the problems of those from the smaller and more distant States. 1 have found, after a fairly long experience here, that the hardest day's work one can possibly do is spent in travelling 6, 7 or 8 hours in an aeroplane. This applies to people like  Senator O'Keeffe,  who lives in Townsville, and it applies to all Western Australian senators, particularly those who live in country districts. It applies, too, to people like  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, who lives in a country area of Victoria. I find that travelling is by far the toughest and hardest work one can do.  Senator Anderson  makes the point that constituents may be interviewed on Monday. For the people I have mentioned this is out anyway. We, perforce, have to leave our constituency work to be done in the week the Senate is not sitting, or at weekends if it is of such urgency that one makes arrangements to see people at weekends. 
I have roughed out a few figures. The Senate can take some confidence from the fact that I had the figures checked, because I do not claim to be a computer of these things. I suggest working a 4-day week, that is, commencing on Tuesday and working through until 5 o'clock on the Friday. I say 5 o'clock on the Friday because I think the idea would be to try and avoid weekend travel. I do not think we should tie ourselves because emergencies with family, with constituents and with Party work can always arise. If one had to make a tough trip at the weekend it would still be possible to get away, if we rose at 5 p.m. This is amending the hours only very minutely. Instead of getting up for dinner at 5.45 p.m. we would get up at 6 p.m. These are only minor alterations which I am sure nobody would argue with. By sitting an 8-day fortnight we would work exactly the same time as now, or a quarter of an hour more or less. 
The sittings would start in a cycle. The sitting rosier would start on the Tuesday afternoon and go through Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and the Senate would sit in the following week on the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. This would be roughly the same hours we are sitting now. By knocking off at the same hour at night, and amending the lunch and dinner hours slightly, the Senate would be working the same hours. To me this is tremendously attractive.  Senator Murphy  made it perfectly clear that he was suggesting a 5-day week as a basis for discussion.  His  words were that he was not dogmatic about it. But this would involve hardship for members and senators who must travel to and from the most distant parts of Australia. As  Senator Anderson  said, we are in some way tied to the other place, but in my opening remarks I indicated that honourable members of that place have been talking about a change for a long time. I know that some- people will say that man is conservative and resists change. Some honourable senators may say: T can interview people on Mondays in Sydney and I do not want to come to Canberra under this new system on that day1. But as more demands are made on us the travelling gets rougher. For instance, I did not come to Canberra from Western Australia this week. I was in Brisbane at a meeting of the Federal executive of the Australian Labor Party last Wednesday and Thursday and I did not get home last weekend because to do so would have meant travelling two days to be home for one day. That did not seem to me to be common sense. 
All these difficulties could be avoided. Everybody has been pretty reasonable about this so far. Perhaps we could be given a night to look at the proposals before discussing them further. Even if we were not dogmatic at that stage we could say: Well, look, this is roughly the type of change we favour.' It will be a matter of trial and error. If the system had to be amended after the first cycle or a couple of cycles, that certainly could be looked at. I have no doubt that it is high time, as  Senator McManus  said, that we grasped this nettle and made an honest attempt to decide this matter. To put it in a nutshell, the situation is that in every 5 days 2 days are spent sitting in an aeroplane. Surely 
I do not have to argue how inefficient and how tiring on the body that is. I think that just to state that proposition is enough to show that there ought to be a very thorough examination of the matter. In this spirit, I am sure it is not beyond the wit of people sitting in this place and another place to arrive at a far more sensible approach than exists at the present time. 
I ask the Minister for Air the following question: Recently a search for a man lost in wild country near Derby in Western Australia was carried out for several days. Can the Minister say why Royal Australian Air Force aircraft were not used in that search? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he agrees that confusion exists in the minds of taxpayers who have bought and sold shares, land, property and other items of value as to their taxation liabilities. Has he examined the possibility of introducing a rule of law setting a time limit, similar  to that in the British system, as the criterion for taxation purposes rather than the present nebulous provision of intention as the criterion, as judged by a taxation officer? 
 I do not think that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  answered one of the questions that I raised. I referred to the position in South Australia which has not any intrastate legislation or specific legislation covering offences committed on aircraft engaged in intrastate operations. Does the Minister consider that South Australia is in any worse position than the other States because of the lack of such legislation? Also, the Minister says that the provisions of the Convention regarding the powers and duties of an aircraft commander are wider than those in the Crimes (Aircraft) Act. I wonder whether there will be a review of our own Act which may in turn influence the States to look at their Acts to see whether they come up to the requirements of the Convention in Tokyo. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
As the year 1972 has been recommended by the United Nations as the date for the attainment of the target for donor countries to contribute 1% of their Gross National Product by way of aid, does the Government intend to attain that target by 1972. 
Is the Government aware that New Zealand intends to reach the 1% target within the period of 7 years. 
If the Government does not intend to reach this level by 1972 has it any intention of fixing a timetable to do so. 
 I have one or two points which I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and to which he might like to refer in his reply. Firstly, who are the parties to this Convention? If the list is very long he might incorporate it in Hansard. If it is very short, he might read out those that he thinks are relevant. As I see the situation now, this legislation applies only to civil aircraft engaged in international flights. The Minister explained that the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 covers interstate flights but not intrastate flights. He pointed out that State law picks up those flights. But he emphasised that South Australia is not covered in respect of flights within that State. I ask him whether South Australia is in any weaker position than the other States in dealing with crimes on aircraft. This is an interesting point. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
If Australia becomes a party to the Convention, the provisions of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act in relation to Australian aircraft are not affected. 
He went on to point out that the application of that Act will be modified inasmuch as we will be unable to interfere with foreign aircraft in flight in order to exercise our criminal jurisdiction except in cases in which an Australian citizen is affected. I would like some clearer definition of that. It seems a little strange that we have this Convention to which we are about to accede, but it is modified to the extent that if a foreign aircraft is flying in Australia and there are no Australians in it we can do nothing about it. I wonder whether there is some section of law that shades over that situation. The Minister said: 
The provisions of the Convention regarding powers and duties of the aircraft commander are wider than those in the Act . . . 
I ask him whether there is any intention to amend our Act in order to bring its provisions into line with those we are discussing at the moment. He then went on to talk about hijacking and getting aircraft returned. I can imagine the debate that occurred at the conference in trying to cover this point. I ask the Minister whether he has any notes on what has happened to hijacked aircraft. I think  Senator Sim  mentioned the number of aircraft involved. What was it? 
What has happened to those 134 aircraft, some of which have gone to Cuba? Has it been possible to negotiate and have them returned, or have all 134 aircraft been knocked off? Has the Minister any notes on the history of this matter?  Senator Byrne  raised the point of when this Convention takes effect. In other words, when is an aircraft in flight? If it is from the time of application of power, I would have thought that at the other end it should be the time of de-application of power. But the Convention says 'when the landing run ends'. 
 Does the Convention say 'when the aircraft commences motion' in respect of the other end? If the commander started the aircraft motors early enough he could bring the Convention info play. Otherwise I assume that the normal criminal law or the normal law - it may not necessarily be criminal law - of a state would apply. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on that. 
I am wondering whether it would. It would not if it was an intrastate flight. 
 It might be an intrastate flight. If it was an intrastate flight in South Australia no aircraft law would apply to it. 1 imagine that then the normal State law would apply. I take it that the 
Minister knows more about this than I do. That is why I am asking him these questions. I refer also to clause 4 of Article 1 which reads: 
This Convention shall not apply to aircraft used in military, customs or police services. 
I am wondering why customs or police flights are excluded. There is probably a very good reason, but I just cannot think of it at the moment. I take it that the military would have its own law that would apply; but I thought intrastate, interstate and possibly international customs flights would come under the normal law. I would like the Minister to give us some comments on the points I have raised. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
As the Postmaster-General's decision to pay the cost of installation of telephones on sheep properties in the Gascoyne and Murchison districts in Western Australia was an acceptance by the Government of the principle of paying for developmental telephonic costs in remote areas, and the principle has an Australia-wide application, would the Postmaster-General inform the Parliament whether a policy decision in this regard has been reached. 
The arrangements made for subscribers in the Gascoyne and Murchison districts do not mean that the Government would be prepared to meet the whole cost of lines to the Carnarvon exchange for these subscribers. 
The position is that the existing lines, which are very lengthy, are being allowed to remain connected to Carnarvon for as long as they are capable of operating satisfactorily. However, the subscribers concerned are still being required to accept responsibility for maintaining the lines. 
I want to add my very sincere remarks to the eulogy of the late Jim Fraser and to agree with everything that has been said. As has been stated, he entered Parliament in  1951  but I knew him before then.  1  had a fairly close association with him when he was private secretary to  Senator McKenna,  the then Leader of the Opposition in this place. Naturally at that time he had a lot to do with members of the Australian Labor Party. 
I came here as a very young man and was struck by the excitement and turmoil of this place, but standing out like a beacon in all of that was Jim Fraser. Somehow those days seem to remain in my memory just as clearly as do the years that we spent together in the Parliament. He was a man of high principles and quiet efficiency. He brought logic and clear thinking to every problem, no matter what it might be. All of these attributes of this big man were laced with humour. Always  1  thought of him as a dour Scot but that never seemed to come into his humour which would sparkle in all sorts of ways. If ever it was at your expense it was never with anything else but the greatest of fun. 
Very few people realised that Jim Fraser had a deep knowledge of New Guinea. He was always my sheet anchor whenever problems relating to New Guinea arose. He had fought there as a soldier. The humour of Army life always showed through in his analysis of the fighting in New Guinea. He had an amazing way of analysing people, and it made no difference that the people of New Guinea with whom he associated at that time were not the same as we are. He had a tremendous understanding of the New Guineans. He had made a real study of their tribal life and their problems. As I said, to me he was a sheet anchor because whenever problems concerning New Guinea were being discussed I found that to discuss them with Jim Fraser was to discuss them with a man who had had the advantage of being there, had made a very close and serious study of the area and liked the people there just as much as he liked his own Australian people. 
He was known as Big Jim. Physically, of course, he was a big man; but it always struck me that his mind was just as big as his body. I never found Jim Fraser thinking along petty lines. He was never loquacious. What had to be said he said clearly and succinctly. He had the ability to place the problem very clearly before people in a few short words, whatever they happened to be discussing. There is an old saying that he who treads softly goes far. In that gentle way which we associate with big men - big in mind and big in body - he certainly went a long way. This was exemplified not only in his funeral, which I understand was the biggest the national capital has ever seen, but also in the tremendous record majority that he obtained at the last election. No matter what electorate in Australia one considers, it was a record or near record majority in view of the fact that all sorts of things have to be taken into consideration in respect of various electorates. 
He did not ever tread softly when he thought there was a wrong to be righted. That is when I found that he could be angry when anger was necessary or when it was warranted. It was on those occasions that his almost natural flair for research was exhibited. I do not mean research in the academic sense; but whenever he produced facts they were salient and unarguable because of his natural flair for research. One found that no matter how far one tried to dig behind his arguments he always had the answers. 
In this Parliament there are certain men - I do not exclude members of other parties but I have in mind several people in my own Party because I have been associated with them more than with members of other parties - whose bigmindedness, bigheartedness, ability and humour inevitably rub off on to others. I believe that Jim Fraser was one of those men. To my mind, he is one of the greats of the Australian Labor Party. These men inevitably leave something with others. I feel the loss to Australia; I feel the loss to this Parliament; I feel the tremendous loss to the Australian Labor Party; and I feel a personal loss in having lost a very good friend and a good mate in every sense of the word. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
Motion (by  Senator Anderson)  agreed to: 
That as a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Mr J.  R. Fraser the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 
Sitting suspended from  3.19  to 8 p.m. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Air been drawn to the fact that the American Senate permanent sub-committee on investigations, which is now investigating the F111, is examining the question whether in 1962-63 and in the early part of 1964 there were Government reports from engineers to the effect that the performances of this plane were nowhere near what they were claimed to be, that the performances were very much exaggerated? Can the Minister tell me whether this information was known to the government of the day or whether, in the course of its inquiries, this information was concealed from it? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Why were RAAF aircraft not used during  a  recent search, lasting several days, for a man lost in wild country near Derby, in Western Australia. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Police Department in each State is responsible for organising searches for lost hikers and other persons in similar distress. If the occasion demands, Royal Australian Air Force assistance is sought. There was no request in this case for Royal Australian Air Force assistance. 
I. propose to move that the debate be adjourned and the resumption of the debate made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland)- by leave - I am pleased to hear that the crown of thorns starfish is to be the subject of an investigation and that the Commonwealth and Stale governments intend to provide finance for this investigation and for action to control the starfish. However, I express some concern about the possibility of delay such as has occurred with the establishment of the royal commission to investigate the question of damage which might be caused to the Great Barrier Reef through drilling for oil. Although the royal commission was proposed quite some time ago in the Governor-General's Speech, to this point no action has been taken to appoint this very important commission. The threat of damage to the Barrier Reef through drilling for oil has been the subject of much discussion in the Press and the need to remove the threat has received much support from the Australian public. 
The crown of thorns starfish is a threat to the Reef which has been neglected for at least 4 years. The Queensland Government undertook a survey of the crown of thorns problem, but the results of the survey were kept secret and no action was taken about this threat until the starfish had reached the proportions of an epidemic. The Academy of Science undertook a survey, the report on which has been presented to the Parliament, but it was such a gloomy report that both the State and Federal governments appeared to adopt the attitude that the position was so completely out of hand that it was hopeless to try to do anything about it. Therefore it is very encouraging to see that the proposed committee is to be established. I hope and trust that the money provided for action to control the crown of thorns starfish will be substantial and that it will be of the order of the amount provided by the United States Government to combat this threat, that is, $5m. 
Areas of the Reef have been devastated by the crown of thorns starfish. So far the Queensland Government has provided ยง22,000 only for the establishment of a research station at Mourilyan to investigate this problem. This is an area adjacent to the Reef which has already been devastated. 1 trust that the Federal Government will lake the initiative and see that the investigation is much more extensive and that the whole problem is treated with much greater urgency than in the past. If one were to look at the diagrams in the reports by the Australian Academy of Science one would see that very large areas have already been devastated by the crown of thorns. One views with suspicion the lack of interest on the part of some responsible men in Queensland, especially since some of them are involved in the development of an oil industry in the Barrier Reef area, lt has been stated with some support that the reason for the neglect in dealing with the crown of thorns is that the destruction of large areas of the Reef by the starfish will make it much easier to support exploitation of the Reef for minerals. I am not strongly in support of this explanation, but in view of the record of the Queensland Government over the past 4 years in connection with the preservation of the Reef one cannot blame people for making statements of this kind or for writing letters to the Press in this vein. 
In announcing the establishment of the proposed committee the Government has not announced specifically the allocation to be made for this purpose. I trust that within a few days details of the plan will be announced. I do not think the Opposition intends to have this statement placed on the business paper for further debate but intends rather to expedite the establishment of this committee. This is the general impression that I have received. I trust that the Government will not be overimpressed by the report by the Australian Academy of Science which indicates that the only action that can be taken against the crown of thorns at this stage is a holding action. I have spoken to  Dr Endean,  a man who has taken a prominent part in the investigation of the crown of thorns, and he has stated that the reason for such a grim report was to stir the Government into action.  He  stated that even a harvesting of the crown of thorns on the Reef would be of some advantage. If this committee which is to be appointed is not suitably supported, if its work is not expedited and if the Government is not prepared to take immediate action we may reach  a  situation in which large areas of the Barrier Reef are so devastated that they may be beyond recovery. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of the very poor reception on trunk calls between Western Australia and the restof Australia, will the Postmaster-General consider employing more satellite channels to boost the performance pending the commissioningof the co-axial cable. 
The very rapid growth in East-West telephone traffic in recent times has seriously overtaxed not only the existingland line facilities, but also the available accommodation and manual operating facilities, particularly in Perth. The result has been that delays are occurring on telephone calls between Western Australia and the Eastern States. 
It was for this reason that 24 satellite channels which can only operate between Perth and Sydney were brought into service late in November. 
The real solution to the problem depends on the introduction of Subscriber Trunk Dialling between Western Australia and the Eastern States about the end of June 1970, when the new large capacity microwave radio system linking Adelaide and Perth should be brought into service. The microwave system will overcome the operational and certain transmission problems currently being experienced on the land line route. 
The employment of additional satellite channels would not facilitate the introduction of subscriber trunk dialling facilities and would provide only limited relief under manual trunk operation. For these reasons all available resources are being directed to the earliest possible commissioning of the microwave system. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I ask you a question because your latest ruling leaves me a little confused. As I understand it, you just ruled that  Senator Wright  was to be the arbiter of whether a question was seeking legal opinion and whether he should answer it. Could you help me by referring to standing order 99? It says that questions shall not ask for legal opinion and a little later says: 
The  President  may direct that the language of  a  question be changed if it seems to him unbecoming or not in conformity with the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
It seems,  Mr Deputy President,  that on this occasion your ruling gave  Senator Wright  a discretion. You left the decision to the Minister answering the question. It seems to me that your ruling clashes with the relevant standing order. The standing order makes it quite mandatory that such questions are out of order.  Mr Deputy President,  you are aware that the standing order also refers to other matters. The objection raised by  Senator Wheeldon  seems to me to be perfectly valid. The standing order says that questions shall not ask for legal opinion. If that is the case, I think the ruling ought to come from the  President  or from his  Deputy  who is in the chair at the time and that a decision should not be left to the discretion of the Minister. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I think it is for the Chair to decide whether the Minister is giving his legal opinion about a question. 
 That was the very point raised by  Senator Wheeldon.  The Chair should rule. I thought your ruling was that it was left to the discretion of the Minister. The Chair should rule whether or not the question sought legal opinion.  Mr Deputy President,  I do not think you have any course open to you other than to rule the question out of order. Leaving it to the Minister to say whether or not the question sought legal opinion contravenes the standing order. 
 I asked a question. I did not raise a point of order. I asked for clarity on the  Deputy  President's ruling.  Mr Deputy President,  I have asked you a question. It is in your discretion whether or not you add to what you have said. That is the end of the matter. The point of order raised by  Senator Wheeldon  gave rise to my asking the question. This is not now a discussion as to whether or not  Senator Rae  asked for legal opinion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - It is very difficult for the Chair to decide. I do not know what answer will be given by the Minister. In this regard it is almost impossible to say whether the Minister will be expressing an opinion. 
I raise is that the standing order is perfectly clear. It says that questions seeking legal opinion shall not be asked. The question asked by  Senator Rae  sought legal opinion. I seek a ruling from you,  Mr Deputy President,  as to what procedure is to be followed in future. The standing order provides that questions seeking legal opinion shall not be asked. As I understand it,  Senator Rae  asked whether there was any statutory provision which allowed certain things to be done. Clearly that is a question of law. He asked whether there was a statute which provided for something or whether there was not such a statute. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! I consider that it is in the discretion of the Minister to decide whether a question seeks a legal opinion or merely involves the giving of information. On that basis I must rule it out of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I have ruled it out of order. 
What are you ruling out of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - The point of order which you have raised. 
I merely asked you a question. You are not ruling the question out of order, surely. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  This is the answer to  Senator Wheeldon. 
for legal opinion. 
Quite obviously, if it is up to the Minister and the Minister is not a legal man, although he may have some other profession, he would not have the legal knowledge to know whether or not he was giving a reply to a legal question. With all due respect, I suggest that this rule on the back of the Notice of Question paper should no longer be included. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Perhaps it might be suggested to the  President  that this question should be considered by the Standing Orders Committee. If that is acceptable to honourable senators, I will see that it is referred to the  President  for consideration. 
by leave - I want to deal with one or two matters. I appreciate that  Senator Byrne  has raised this. It is good to have these things raised so that we do not get into a knot later on. I think  Senator Murphy  has made the position clear. What we are asking for is what we believe to be an improvement. If the Senate in its wisdom carried this we would ask the House of Representatives to concur in our additions, addendums or alterations, whatever term is used. If that were so and the House of Representatives did concur, that would be it. That would then be the modification that we suggest. If the Senate in its wisdom rejects it, then the Australian Labor Party intends to support what the Government has put forward. 
Firstly let me say how much I appreciate the fact that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was wide enough awake to pick up the point that was quite innocently put in by the House of Representatives but which ran slap bang into standing order 300 of the Senate. We have an absolute rule which, unless dispensed with, provides that no committee may sit while the Senate is sitting.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has expressed the view that he agrees with that and would not like to see it altered. He intended to move an amendment which would have held the status quo for a period and we did intend to support it but, as he has explained, for the convenience of the Minister who has important engagements in Bangkok, he will hold his hand for the present with the assurance that the Committee will not be called together while either House is sitting. I do not think that it is necessary for me to express an opinion at this stage on whether the standing order is good or bad. What I think will happen and what I would like to see happen is that this Committee will be established. It can then consider this matter itself. It can make a reference to the Standing Orders Committee, if it so wishes, to have this standing order altered. I think that would be the right and proper way to deal with this matter. 
Several things have been imported into this, and I think it is a good thing that that should happen. When I first came into this place anyone who wanted to talk on foreign policy was regarded as a bit of a nut. Today  Senator McManus  and others are deploring that we are not talking enough about foreign policy. I think this is all to the good. If we suddenly find a situation in which members of Parliament are undoubtedly being goaded by their electors into taking a greater interest in foreign affairs, that is a very good thing. 
I do not think that I have to go over the whole position. The Senate knows the two amendments that we are putting. The third is merely machinery. The first is to the effect that meetings of this Committee should be in public unless the Committee itself decides to hold them in camera. The second is that the Minister be not the only person who can refer matters to the Committee. Whatever  Senator McManus  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack may say, the day will come when the three of us may be out of this Parliament and the Parliament will accept almost unanimously what is being put up to it.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, inferentially at least, said 'At present the Committee is not mature enough' How does maturity come about? Maturity does not come during your school days. They are your learning days. Maturity comes when you are thrown into the pool and made to swim. I believe that we are underrating the Australian public when we say that the Committee is not mature enough to move into public hearings. 
We are politicians and we know that the Government has a particular interest in protecting the situation which it must talk about at election time and which the Minister for External Affairs, whoever he may be, must bring before the Parliament from time to time with some degree of candour while withholding certain information relating to external affairs. Do not forget that the Committee has the right to nominate the subjects upon which there will be public hearings. Could any problems arise in a public hearing on Vietnam? I do not know what could be more public than what we have been hearing about Vietnam in all sorts of ways over the past several years. There never has been an international situation which has been the subject of wider public debate, which has been more divisive, which has been 'the cause of more teach-ins and lectures, and on which more authorities with widely diverging and strongly held views on the pros and cons and the solution to the problem have spoken. It seems to me that if you were to codify this and have people before the Committee who at present probably are regarded by the public as persons of great authority, you would be able to test that authority, and whether that authority was justified would be shown very quickly. I believe that that would be a means of sorting out what has been said in relation to the situation in Vietnam. 
The situation in the Middle East is defying everyone. It is a running situation in relation to which the experts, as I read their statements, say that there is a very real danger of a third world war. What would be the danger to Australia's interests to hear experts, or so-called experts who would be tested by the Committee, on the situation in the Middle East? Let me come nearer to home and refer to the Malaysia-Singapore situation in which we are involved in no degree of conflict. Certainly there are some divergences on the way in which we should handle ourselves, whether troops should be there, how many troops should be there and whether the troops should be in Malaysia or in Singapore. Surely this would not embarrass a government. Even if it would embarrass a government, what we are trying to write into the charter of this Committee today is not just for the lifetime of this Parliament but for all time. This will operate in respect of all governments, whatever their political colour might be and whatever system of control might operate. We have a very peculiar situation in the Senate at the present time, and it seems that it could well continue for a period of years. So we could have the political colour of a government modified by the situation in the Senate. 
Is it not true that today people are becoming more involved in the politics of Australia? The students are more vocal than ever before in history. University people are stepping out of the halls of the universities and making utterances on various matters.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has been a very able  chairman  of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I regret that he will not be the  chairman  in the future. I believe that he has shown a great deal of maturity. With reference to the people who will be appointed to this Committee, I believe that  Senator Lacey  was completely correct when he said by way of interjection: 'You are underrating the Parliament'. The people who will be appointed to this Committee are being underrated. After all, any institution will fail if it has bad or incompetent people on it. If the cricketers in a cricket team cannot play cricket it will not be a good cricket team. 
If we do not have on this Committee people who are devoted and able it will fail. But such committees have not failed in other parts of the world. Whatever people may say about .the American system and ,the American institutions, I believe that one thing that has probably saved them from great disasters is the open society. Their inquiries are held in an amazing way. Another amazing aspect is that, when a President returns from an overseas trip, if it happens to be in this part of the world he is met at San Francisco by the television cameras and there, off the cuff, the American people are told immediately what is happening generally. 
There is a conservatism in man. I suppose that it is born into all of us. Members of the Government parties hate to alter anything. They do not want to have public hearings. I am one of those who have wanted this Committee. I have wanted it for a long time. The final answer to people who do not want public hearings is that if we have them  -  I emphasise that they will be at the discretion of the Committee - we will revolutionise the Committee itself and also parliamentary practice in Australia by bringing into the fold all the voices from outside. As  Senator McManus  pointed out, we already have on our books for consideration a proposal for committees in which experts will be brought before us. 
Is it not obvious that as the world becomes more complex it is just a sheer impossibility for members of the Parliament to deal with all the technological, engineering, ecological and other problems that are confronting us? While I was just sitting here I was thinking that it probably was not a very great problem prior to 1917 when the decision was made to build the east-west railway. Technical and financial advice would have been necessary. But it was an engineering and financial problem, which would have come within the purview of the layman and would have been easily grasped. But it is not so easy when one has to deal with matters such as the statement on space, which was read only the night before last, and the control of the continental shelf. These matters will demand all sorts of technical and technological consideration. Therefore, it seems to me to be strange that in every other sphere we say that we want all the expert advice we can obtain, but when we come to foreign policy we seem to take this attitude: 'My mind is made up. For goodness sake do not confuse me with the facts. I do not want to listen to anybody else on it'. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack dealt with the possibility of this matter getting out of control. I point out to him that, whatever party is in power, it will have a majority on the Committee. To be fair to him, I must mention that he spoke of an adventitious majority that might occur. I cannot visualise how it could occur, unless a disgruntled member of the government suddenly decided that he wanted to embarrass the government, or something like that. But surely that is a pretty remote possibility, and we cannot legislate for everything that might happen under the sun. After all, I take it that any government would appoint to the Foreign Affairs Committee people who were pretty loyal and pretty decent and were pretty well in touch with their political party. If one of them did happen to go bad, I would say that it would be a pretty rare occurrence because they would be people who were handpicked by the government of the day. 
Even if an inquiry put the government of the day in an embarrassing position, what would be the result of that? The result would be the abolition of the Committee. The people involved would destroy themselves. I believe that we are merely holding back the tide. This is something that will come. It will come in other parts of the world, and I believe that it is a great pity that it has not come here at this stage. This is a sphere which is developing more and having greater interest taken in it than probably any other sphere. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack referred to the confidential information that must keep flowing towards the Committee. It certainly must. He said that the Parliament cannot have this information and should not be interested in it. I suggest that that would not be the case. The information that normally comes to this Committee is not the subject of debate - not all of it, anyway. Some of it is background information. It involves keeping up with the day to day situation in various places. This information would not come to the Parliament. Our proposal would merely mean that the Parliament would have the power to refer to the Committee certain matters in which it was interested. 
Another spectre that is raised is that the Committee will put a very high ranking official, an Army officer or an intelligence officer on the stand and that he will have to tell the whole truth, withholding nothing. This does not happen. In fact, this is one of the complaints of people such as  Senator Fulbright.  These men say: 'I am sorry, Sir; this cannot be revealed'. I do not want to sidetrack myself, but the American practice of interviewing ambassadors and putting them before the public immediately they return has involved the American people to a tremendous degree. Perhaps it has embarrassed the American Government on the question of Vietnam because the people have been involved. But if we believe in democracy we should believe that this sort of information should not be confined to a few people. 
One of the things I have said in the field of foreign policy is that there is a grave danger of people in the Department of External Affairs getting too much of a tubular vision. We choose people and train them. As in the case of all other groups of people, it is very easy for them to fall into a given pattern and to start to look at things with tubular vision. The Americans overcome this problem pretty well by taking a very large percentage of their ambassadors from outside their civil service. I agree with this practice. I believe that it is very good to have this flow into and out of the civil service. I have recommended this before. We should develop the practice of bringing people from the universities and other spheres, who have a tremendous interest in this field, into the Department of External Affairs for a period of time and then putting them out again. I believe that there would be a 2-way flow as a result of which the Department and the Minister would be kept in touch with the outside world and the outside world would be kept in touch with what was happening. 
Yes. I believe that it is all to the good. I do not say that these people should come merely from outside the civil service. I do not see anything wrong with moving some of the senior men from the Department of Trade and Industry into the Department of External Affairs and then sending them back to the Department of Trade and Industry. There are all sorts of ways this idea could be implemented. One of them is by the Foreign Affairs Committee holding public hearings and another is by allowing not only the Minister but also the Parliament to refer matters to the Committee. At the moment the Government is nurturing the suspicion that the Department of External Affairs is a very close preserve. I remember in the days of the Labor Government, the Liberals - of those days the old United Australian Party - said that foreign policy was the province of one man - Bert Evatt. He was the only man who ran foreign policy. Nobody else had a say in it. That is what the UAP said. The Government has only to develop the present situation a little further and people will be saying the same about this Government. They will say that the Government is developing a hierarchy in the Department of External Affairs and that the employees of that Department are a bit superior to other civil servants. The very charge that the UAP levelled against us will be levelled against the Government. Employees of that Department are becoming restrictive and are developing a bureaucratic approach, which will spread into other sections of the Public Service. This situation is bad. The Government thinks that the situation should be enlarged in every possible way. 
The Department of External Affairs, yes. Irrespective of the fate of the amendments, we will support the motion. I thought that  Senator Drury  led very well for the Labor Party. For a long time the Labor Party did not have members on this Committee. Some people thought that we should. They thought that the Committee should be enlarged. Others thought that it was not worth while having representatives on the Committee until it was expanded. That was the reason why the 
Australian Labor Party did not have members serving on the Committee for some years. Over the years the Government has come around to our way of thinking. It has moved into the grey area. We have members on the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Government ought to go further. What I say is in no way intended as an attempt to destroy the Committee. My suggestions are put forward to make the Committee worth while. I repeat, because  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was not here at the time - and I would like him to hear this - that the day that we move into the field of public hearings of the Committee and the day that we create a very outgoing and a very open kind of society is the day that the Government will revolutionise the whole attitude of Parliament to the Australian public. The Government will have the strongest committee in history and will have one of the strongest institutions in history. This does not mean that the Committee will make policy decisions. Every time that the Cabinet has to make a decision on cost evaluations and that kind of thing, the members of Cabinet make up their minds on all the facts placed before them. They do not make decisions on the spot. They finally make up their minds on all the facts placed before them. If the Committee held open hearings, it would know what the public was thinking. It would know the thoughts of university people, the thoughts of the common man and the thoughts of all parliamentarians. 
 It can. I am not accusing the honourable senator of being against public hearings. An expression of opinion in that regard will help. An expression of opinion by the Senate will help. The Committee could still have hearings in camera. Every sensible committee would do so. We know perfectly well that certain people would want to give evidence in camera. People from other countries would not want to be identified because of hostages held in their homeland. The names of these people would not be revealed. This is common sense. I thought  Senator McManus  rather overstated his case. He said the the re-appointment of the Committee had been delayed by negotiations between the Government and the Opposition. He said that it was 7 months since we had met. That is true. I think he should have been fair enough to say that it is only  4  working weeks since the Parliament met. I do not approve of Parliament not sitting for  5  months, but it is only  4  weeks since Parliament met. The only suggestion we put to the Government was accepted. We suggested that, because of the enlarged number of members of our Party, there could be a greater contribution to the work of the Committee by having more Labor members on it. The Government accepted that suggestion and increased the number by  1.  That is the only negotiation that has taken place. That would not have delayed anything. The other propositions are put forward now to be dealt with today. If the Democratic Labor Party wanted to negotiate with the Government, it could have done so. I understand that it had no problems before in getting with the Government an open door policy on foreign Affairs. I doubt whether the DLP would have had any trouble on this occasion if it had asked for a representation of  50%  of the Party instead of  25%  of the Party on the Committee. That is a matter for the DLP. I am not advising it one way or another. 
I am not advising the DLP. We did not include the DLP in our negotiations. I cannot see the DLP including us in its negotiations. I would have no say on this. I think the propositions contained in the amendments are sensible ones. I instance the open hearings and the matter of referrals. Only 2 nights ago the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in another place and  Senator Anderson  in this chamber brought down a statement on special aid to Indonesia. They brought down that statement quite properly so that the foreign affairs statement, the defence statement and this statement could be embraced in a cognate debate. Aid to Indonesia has a political appeal. The situation in Indonesia is very confused. A lot of articles that have been written do not give the true situation in Indonesia. This is one area in which expert advice could be sought without any political overtones at all. The Govern ment has not introduced a Bill. The Government is free to seek this advice. Surely, instead of taking the advice of a section of the Department of External Affairs, would it not be better to prove that that section was right? Would it not be better to prove that this aid is the best type of aid that we can give at present? The information suppliedby the Department could well be right. 
I support the amendments moved by  Senator Drury.  He is an experienced man on this Committee. He is already in the middle of a job examining a section of the world which everybody seems to have forgotten but which is so close to Australia - the Pacific basin - and which will be thrust under our noses very much more in the future. Not only did he lead for us but, because he has complete faith in the proposals contained in the amendments, he moved such amendments. As I said at the outset, I am a conservative man. We are shying at shadows. If the Minister accepted the proposals contained in the amendments, he would immediately throw off his shoulders the suspicion about this kind of secret society in which employees in the Department of External Affairs work. Parliament could refer to the Committee certain things for examination. How the Committee dealt with them would be up to the Committee. It might or might not call witnesses. It might make a decision on the voices around the table. That would be up to the Committee to decide. It is only a matter of time before the Committee will have open hearings, which will then foster the kind of open society that I believe has been the strength of the American nation. I understand that the amendments will be rejected. I regret that. I make this forecast: In time to come, whether the people debating the matter today are here or not, open hearings of the Committee will be accepted with open arms by the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator  Dray's)  be  agreed to. 
by leave - We offer no objection to this procedure, lt has been discussed. Also, we offer no objection to the previous proposal regarding tomorrow's sittings of the Senate. I did not speak to that question because it is obvious that as a State funeral is to be held tomorrow for the late  Senator McKellar,  it would be undesirable for the Senate to sit while one of its colleagues was being afforded a State funeral. We are perfectly willing to fit in with the Government's proposal, that we should commence earlier than usual tomorrow morning and that we should return from Sydney tomorrow afternoon in order to carry on with the business of the Senate tomorrow night. 
1 was prevented from raising it, but 1 am quite willing to let  Senator Wright  have this copy if he would like it. Let me talk firstly about the Moratorium. What is the Moratorium? It is a name that the organisers have selected. It is a demonstration in an age of demonstrations. If  Senator Greenwood  had been talking about this matter 25 years ago 1 could have understood the horror with which he would have put forward his views, because in those days we were not used to demonstrations. But today we are used to demonstrations. 
This movement has been accentuated by the Vietnamese war, but it is not confined to the Vietnamese war. Why, we even had in the conservative city of Melbourne a conservative group of people - farmers - staging a demonstration the other day. But I did not. hear  Senator Greenwood  say that was wrong; that they should wait and listen to the Government; and that they should be forced to stay on their farms and should not raise their voices against Government policy. 1 appreciate very much the assistance 1 am receiving by way of interjections. Honourable senators are trying to anticipate many things. Let me assure them that  I  will not be running away from one of them. 
Evidently  Senator Greenwood  and some other people have a very great advantage over me in that, somehow or other, they can foretell the future. I have never been able to do that. They say that there will be violence. I did not see any violence today. How they know that there will be violence is completely beyond me. I have faith in the democratic processes of Australia. I take it that, if somebody had attacked me when 1 was in front of this building today or if somebody had attacked somebody else, he would have been arrested by a policeman who knew the type of people he could arrest and the type of charges he could make, and then the policeman would put his evidence before a court of law and that court of law would mete out the justice that this and other parliaments have laid down. 
This attitude is an anticipation of law breaking. It takes my mind back. It seems to me that every generation of parliamentarians is like every generation. They have to learn the same lessons again. I look across the chamber and see  Senator Wright,  with whom I used to disagree when the matter to which I am about to refer was before us. A Bill was introduced and received a lot of prominence in Australia at the time. It was called the Communist Party Dissolution Bill. It had for its aim not only the banning of the Communist Party but also to deprive of their livelihood 2 sets of people in the community - the civil servants and the trade unionists- if they were Communists, if they agreed with the teachings of Marx and Engels or if the Attorney-General thought they would think about the teachings of Marx and Engels. We fought it in the atmosphere of McCarthism which had been washed across the Pacific Ocean during that sad period of American history. That legislation was finally rejected by the judges - to their eternal credit - of the High Court of Australia. It was also rejected, and again to their eternal credit, by the Australian people. Let me say in fairness that some of the Liberals to whom I have since spoken have stated that they regret that the law was ever introduced. They believed that it was wrong. They believed that it should never have been placed on the statute books and certainly should never have been written permanently into the Australian Constitution. 
What  Senator Greenwood  is doing now is putting forward again the objectionable clause in the Communist Party Dissolution Bill on which the Australian people finally rallied and which they rejected.  Senator Greenwood  is anticipating that somebody is going to do something. This is what he has said. He knows somehow or other that there is to be violence and that the law is going to be broken. If the law is broken I repeat that the law enforcement officers of the States and the Commonwealth will take the appropriate action. But the moment we mention these things we find all sorts of people able to foretell the future. Even the Country Party is waking from its somnolence and. 1 regret to say, joining the Liberals on this question. The LiberalCountry Party coalition has been in office for a long time and it is becoming more noticeable that unless people approach the problems of Australia in the same way as the Liberals do they are looked upon as pariahs. The supporters of this Government do not believe there can be any approach other than the old ones that have been laid down by the very conservative Government which we have in Australia today. Why is it that Government supporters do not object to farmers marching? Why is it that they do not object to other people demonstrating while at the same time they object to people taking part in this Moratorium Campaign? It is because they are trying to bring forth again the old smear of a connection between the Communist Party and the Labor Parly. 
During the demonstration today a young man handed me a pamphlet. He handed it to me in an orderly manner and I took it, I hope, in a similarly orderly manner. I thanked him for it and read it through. One passage of it I thought could probably have been written by  Senator Greenwood.  It was this: 
Do you believe that the Vietnam war should be won by determined action, like sending antiCommunist forces into North Vietnam to give the Reds a dose of their own medicine, and not be allowed to drag on year after year while our young men are being killed and wounded? 
I do not agree with the policy of the party that published this document, but it was handed to me in an orderly manner and I defend the right of a member of that party to distribute these pamphlets, just as I would defend the right of any other person to distribute pamphlets, provided it was done in an orderly manner and that the law was not broken. This pamphlet was published by the National Socialist Party of Australia. At least it has a circular emblem with the name of the party inscribed on it and a large swastika in the centre. It appears that my supposition was wrong and that  Senator 
Greenwood did not write this material, but it seems to me that this is the kind of argument that he has been putting up here for a very long period of time. 1 had no objection to the young man handing out these pamphlets although I must sayI do not agree with the party or the things that were in the pamphlet. Nevertheless I do not know why  Senator Greenwood  should object to some people making demonstrations while at the same time evidently not disagreeing with the Nazi Party putting out its pamphlets. 
We are in an age of demonstrations. This is not the first demonstration against the Vietnam war. There has been no more divisive war in history. All over the world there have been these kinds of demonstrations. But of course in this country the Liberal Party always relates foreign policy to politics. It has a completely bad record in the handling of external affairs. This whole phase of Government administration has been one of disgrace to the Liberal Party. Yet Government supporters always bring out this Red bogey. They have brought it out this year because of the number of elections that are being held in various parts of Australia and for no other reason. 
It strikes me that  Senator Greenwood  is very pro-conscription. He says he agrees with it. I say that the Australian Labor Party objects to it because the Liberal Parly has used it as an alternative to a proper defence policy. The Government claims that by taking a section of the 20-year-olds and conscripting them into the Army it has a defence policy and that everyT is crossed and every I is dotted. We say that that is not good enough. The history of Australia shows that if there is a war in which the Australian people are united behind its government, as they were in 2 world wars and in Korea, there has never been any shortage of volunteers. Yet these people say that it. is not conscription. That is one of the fundamental things on which the Australian Labor Party parts company with the Government. 
The other night when  Senator Greenwood  was going on in that very fanatical way of bis, honourable senators opposite started to say that at one time the Australian Labor Party had introduced conscription. We did. What is more, we would do it again in similar circumstances. But I want it marked, and marked well, that when the Australian 
Labor Party was conscripting people it conscripted every able bodied man and anyone who was not in uniform was paying taxation at the rate of 18s 6d in the ยฃ1. 1 stand here talking today while my young fellow countrymen are dying on the fields of Vietnam and I am not paying 2 bob extra in taxation. Neither is anyone else in the community. If there is to be conscription as there was during the Curtin regime, as far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned there will be conscription hook, line and sinker. We will not go along picking up a few young men. That is a cheap way of having a defence policy. It is cheap in money and it is cheap in votes because if every 20-year-old or every 22-year-old or every young able bodied man in the community were conscripted there would be a wave of reaction through the families which were affected. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
No,  Sir. I  must beg to differ. I have half an hour. I am the opening  speaker  for the Opposition. It has always been understood that the opening  speaker  for the Opposition has equal time with the mover of the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Under Standing Order 64 (2.) the honourable senator's time has expired. 
I put forcefully to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that there has been a long standing arrangement. I see that  Senator Wright  wishes to speak. 1 will let him take over. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the Senate grant  Senator Willesee  leave to continue? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank  Senator Wright  and the Senate. Let me move to another aspect. These things are so completely unfair when we talk about conscription. It is completely unfair to try to relate this to the present position simply because some elections are to be held soon. Surely to goodness a young man like  Senator Greenwood  should lift his sights above what has become an abuse of a mere demonstration, however that demonstration might be conducted, and ignore the whole situation which is giving rise to demonstrations. The other night  Senator Greenwood  was in a very curious state of mind. I have heard him on legal questions in the Senate and I have thought that he was a man with a future in this place. I think I told him on one occasion how I admired the way in which he had summed up a legal question in the Senate. I do not withdraw from that. lt struck me as strange that this young man who seemed to have a capable mind should suddenly go off in this peculiar and maniacal way in which he has spoken, ft made me look very much closer at the whole situation. Then it made me look very much closer at the statement on Vietnam that the Prime Minister made the other night. I said earlier in the day - I want to be fair to  Senator Greenwood  and explain this - that he and the Prime Minister were two Liberals who did not agree with what the Liberals were doing today - promising to withdraw troops from Vietnam. 
Looking at the Prime Minister's statement I counted 16 paragraphs in which he defended the sending of troops to Vietnam. If honourable senators read the whole of the statement they will see that it is not a document for withdrawing troops from Vietnam; it is a document for increasing the number of troops in Vietnam. So we ask ourselves: Why does the Prime Minister finally agree to withdraw Australian troops? Unfortunately the reason is the Government's belief that as long as we stick to the Americans they will stick to us, and that as long as we do not cut the umbilical cord joining us to the Americans everything will be all right. It becomes as plain as a pikestaff that Australian troops are in Vietnam - nes'er mind what, has been said in the past couple of days in the House of Representatives - because American troops are in Vietnam, and Australian troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam because American troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam. There is no other reason. 
I am not preaching anti-Americanism. I am showing merely that in this area of the world from which the British are moving out and from which the Americans will move out in due course and in which we will have to stay forever, we should have an independent foreign policy. We should not be shutting out the voice of the people, however it is coming through to us. Instead we should be listening to it in a far better way than we are at present. I wish I had more time to go into this. In his statement the Prime Minister said: 
For the Government believes that if small nations are to survive and prosper, then aggression from whatever source - whether it is inspired by Communism, Fascism or old-fashioned nationalism - must not be allowed to succeed. 
How we will stop nationalism from succeeding, and whether we should stop nationalism from succeeding, is a matter at which 1 think all members of the Liberal Party should be looking very carefully. If wo. say that nationalism is not to be allowed to succeed- 
Did the honourable senator say 'by violence'? 
Very well, I accept that. Here we are sitting back on our little island of Australia saying that in the whole of South East Asia - the Prime Minister does not confine it to that but 1 am assuming that we have South East Asia in mind - the governments must remain there for all time unless we Australians with our arrogance towards these people say that it is OK for those countries to change their governments. This is a tremendous fantasy. The fantasy that the Government is building up, the fantasy that  Senator Greenwood  argues, is that wherever there is violence, wherever there is aggression, Australian troops will go galloping along to do something about it. That is a fantasy. The fact is that we have gone into these countries only when America has led the way. 
We hear a lot of cries about the deaths that have occurred on both sides in the Vietnam war. I deplore those deaths, but I did not hear people talking about the Tibetans; I did not see anyone rushing along and saying: 'This is an invasion'; I did not. see any troops galloping in at the time of the invasion of Czechoslovakia, Hungary or the rest of them. I know that there are military reasons for that but do not let us perpetuate this lie that Australians are standing with their swords unsheathed waiting for someone to attack across a border and then they will rush in and do something about it. 
There is this over-simplification that we must always be attached to a major power. We must always realise that whatever the benefits of being attached to a great power there are also a lot of detriments. Because of our so-called attachment to the mother country for so long we marched away to 2 world wars. In the first World War we lost 60,000 people dead when we had a population of less than 5 million and in the Second World War we lost 30,000 dead when our population was about 8 million. I suggest that that is a pretty great contribution to make. I am not deploring the fact or saying whether it was right or wrong. I am merely saying that these are the things that the Government must face up to. We are in Vietnam today because of our attachment to another very great country. 
No.  Senator Wright  is trying to drag me right off the track. I am making the point thai if a small nation attaches itself to a big nation there is a greater chance of the big nation dragging it into a conflict than there is of the small nation dragging the bigger nation into a conflict. Surely this is self-evident when one stops to think about it. The basis of the whole argument advanced by supporters of the Liberal Party is that so long as we are attached to the United States, although we get into all the troubles in the world the Americans will get us out of them. That may be right, but let us be realistic. 1 am heartily sick of having foreign policy treated in this Parliament on a political level. Time and time again statements on foreign policy are made and are listed on the notice paper but are not debated. But on this occasion, because the Moratorium is to take place and 2 State elections and a Federal by-election are pending the whole question of foreign policy is thrown into the political arena. 

 Senator Greenwood followed a steady line and I wish to refer to 1 or 2 points that he made. Let us have a look at some of the things that are happening. The Americans have moved into Cambodia and the statement of the  President  of the United Slates explaining that move has been eulogised by our Prime Minister - every word and every line of it. Our Prime Minister accepted it without question. 1 have here an article written by Denis Warner. 1 hope that honourable senators opposite will not call him a Communist, because he was once a Liberal Party candidate for election. 1 think he has been for many years the most constructive Australian journalist writing on events in South East Asia. He is more consistently correct than any other journalist writing in that field.  Senator Greenwood  is grinning. Perhaps he could quote occasions when Denis Warner's articles would not have suited my point of view. Although I am not a lawyer 1 have had experience in industrial courts. 1 believe that you should credit to one's opponent the possession of ethics that you would wish him to concede to you. 1 do not agree with the viewpoint of Denis Warner on every occasion, but I believe that his reports are factual. In this article I have he writes of the disappearance of 600 Vietnamese in the Mekong River area. The article states: 
Apparently boats shuttled up and down the river bringing new batches of men listed for execution, and . shootings continued every night for 5 nights. As men were killed their bodies were thrown into the river. 
Have we had any explanation of this incident from the Government? Of course not. There are other things connected with the situation today that require explanation. I said earlier that I did not wish to be trapped into dealing only with the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The motion we are discussing is a political stunt introduced into the Senate by  Senator Greenwood.  All the points I have raised should be examined much more forcefully by this Parliament and the Australian people than they are being examined today. When did our Prime Minister learn that American troops were to enter Cambodia? Are we not entitled to know that? Are we not entitled to answers to similar questions? Is the regime of this Government of the type that is told nothing and explains nothing? Have we no intelligence forces at all in South Vietnam? Were 600 men murdered in the Mekong River area and thrown into the river or not? Does the Government not have any views on this incident? 
The first proposition advanced by  Senator Greenwood  is that the objective of the Moratorium is to weaken the resolution of the Australian people to secure a just and lasting peace. I ask  Senator Greenwood  whether the people of Central Europe have achieved a just and lasting peace through war. The Prime Minister has said that there is peace in Korea. Goodness gracious me. Peace in Korea? A peace treaty still has not been signed there. The situation in Korea is a time bomb ticking on inexorably. If ever there is one part of the world where there is no peace it is Korea. There is a dreadful state of tension in Panmunjom. I am amazed that the Prime Minister should say that there is peace in Korea. I ask honourable senators and  Senator Greenwood  in particular to consider their attitudes. I hope that in future  Senator Greenwood  will channel his abilities at a much higher level than he has demonstrated today. He will learn when he has been here longer that elections come and go, but some of his words and those of other parliamentarians may affect the lives of people for many years to come. As  Senator Greenwood  has referred to a just and lasting peace I ask him this: Has any war, killing, bombing, maiming, or murdering of people ever achieved for anybody a just and lasting peace? 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy President. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
 I would hate to be up on a traffic charge with some of the lawyers who have argued tonight. 1 come back to the very simple approach of  Senator Cant  who mentioned what appeared in Hansard. I have just looked at the records and if the records are wrong then,  Mr President,  you have the grave duty of looking at the whole situation. I interpolate here that for 15 years I have been saying that every senator has the grave responsibility of looking at the Standing Orders of this chamber.  Senator Cant  has given a simple explanation of what occurred. He has referred to what is recorded in Hansard and what is recorded in the Journals of the Senate, and  Senator Greenwood  tonight has confirmed what  Senator Cant  said.  Senator Greenwood  is recorded in the Journal as having moved: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 9.55 a.m. 
He says that he moved what Hansard did not pick up. I do not criticise the Hansard reporters. I think they are amazing people to pick up what docs go on in this place. 
But the Journals of the Senate completely reverse this. They say: 

 Senator Greenwood, in order to debate a matter of urgency . . . 
Then they set out his motion. I agree with Voltaire: I may disagree with what he says, but I defend with my life his right to say it. He has moved a motion, but the Journals of the Senate have completely reversed what he has said. 
Here is the negative approach of  Senator Sim.  He asks: Has it happened before?' He is the most negative man ever to walk into this Parliament. The fact is: Whether we agree or disagree with what  Senator Greenwood  said last night, he says that he moved the motion in its full context. He wants it to go into the permanent record of the Commonwealth Parliament, and we want it to go in. However much we disagree with what he said, we defend his right to say it. Yet the Journals of the Senate reverse the very thing which  Senator Greenwood  says he said. How can you criticise  Senator Cant  for raising this matter tonight? We are always doing something to sort of fit in with what the Senate wants to do. The fact is that the minutes of a meeting of any trade union would be challenged in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if they were falsified. The minutes of any meeting of a bowling club would be challenged if they were falsified. We sit here in the supreme Parliament of the Commonwealth.  Senator Greenwood  has moved something, and he confirms that he has moved it. We uphold his right to move it although we disagree with what he says about it. We have had this out. We have had these debates, which is what this Senate is for. Yet the Journals of the Senate falsify what we are doing and the lawyers on the other side of the chamber - and  Senator Wright  is raising his head- 
 Senator Wright  knows perfectly well that there is no point of order invovled.  A point of order is involved if one offends the Standing Orders of the Senate.  Senator Wright  disagrees with what I  say. You know, he is a fellow who can be upset. The fact is that if he disagrees with what  I  say, that is just too bad for him.  I  have not offended the Standing Orders of the Senate. There is no point of order involved. The fact is that  I  have said something and he disagrees with it. He disagrees with it because of his guilt. He knows perfectly well that what he says tonight is- 
The whole debate concerns the falsification of the Journals- 
What do you want me to do? 
Which remark? 
Oh, to  Senator Wright  I  apologise.  I  mean  I  would apologise to  Senator Wright  immediately. Is that satisfactory? The fact is that the whole of  Senator Cant's  argument is- 
 I  will withdraw the word 'falsify' - whatever you want. 
The fact is that  Senator Cant  has raised a question regarding what has happened in the Senate- 
If it is  Senator Sim,  I do not want any withdrawal. 
1 want to make my speech to responsible people. I do not consider  Senator Sim  a responsible person. 
I will withdraw whatever 1 said about  Senator Sim. 
Whatever I said I will withdraw. The fact is that  Senator Cant  has raised a very valid point. He said that what has happened in this Senate has not been recorded in the Journals of the Senate. That is a pretty simple proposition. It is time we got down to recording what happens in this place. A lot of hokery-pokery  is going on. I agree completely with what  Senator Cant  has said. It does not matter how the lawyers argue about this situation. He is completely right.  Senator Greenwood  has confirmed tonight, whatever else we disagree on, that what he moved was as  Senator Cant  said. Why is it not put in the Journals of the Senate? Why do we not stop the humbug that is going on here? 
 I thank the Senate for its forbearance in the mood it is in at present. 
Honourable senators will recall that yesterday in dealing with standing order 64  Senator Wright,  in a most unusual burst of generosity, allowed me to continue with my remarks when,  Mr President,  I doubted your  deputy  when he wanted me to conclude my remarks after 15 minutes.I have always understood that anybody who moved the adjournment of the Senate to discuss a matter of urgency was allowed 30 minutes and that the Minister first speaking was also allowed 30 minutes.I understand completely how the situation came about.  Senator Greenwood  is a most unusual person-- 
You are most unusual, but  Senator Greenwood  is unusual in a different way.  Senator Greenwood  has raised a matter in the Senate andI defend his right to do so. It is amazing that the Standing Orders can stand for 70 years without our looking at this sort of thing.  Senator Greenwood  did the Senate a service yesterday by directing our attention to the fact that: standing order 64 (2) reads: 
In speaking to such Motion, the mover and the Minister first speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each . . . 
Those who framed that provision, it is quite obvious, imagined it would always be the Opposition that moved for the discussion of urgent matters.  Senator Greenwood,  in his exuberance, has moved such a motion from the Government side, and has thereby thrown the standing order into disorder, as it were. I am not complaining about that. 
Please, will those great democrats.  Senator Anderson  and  Senator Wright,  give me just the 5 minutes that I asked for?  Senator Greenwood  brought into the limelight the fact that we have a standing order which is completely incompatible with the situation today. It may be all right to say that 70 years ago this standing order was germane. I ask you,  Mr President,  and  Senator Anderson,  even in his mood tonight, to refer to the Standing Orders. Committee the position that obtained yesterday. It is obvious that we all - even  Senator 
Anderson - want the person who moves the motion to have 30 minutes and the person who is rebutting the motion to have 30 minutes.  Senator Young  is interjecting, butI suggest that he be quiet because he does not know anything about this matter. 
Yesterday's debate was initiated perfectly legitimately by  Senator Greenwood.  1 defend his right to do so. But because of the way we are operating the Senate today, 105 minutes was given to speakers against the Labor Party and 72 minutes was given to speakers for the Labor Party. I concede to my opponents that even in the heat of debate on such things as the Moratorium Campaign they would not want that position to obtain. They would not want a situation in which about 50% more time was given to the argument against the case than was given to the argument for the case.I am keeping withinthe 5 minutes for whichI asked. 
I ask that you,  Mr President,  and  Senator Anderson  have a look at these 2 situations. I know that neither of you is very partial to me tonight.I ask you to look at a situation in which what occurred yesterday can occur, namely, that 2 senators attacking something can have an hour and under the Standing Orders the leading debater for the other side can have only a quarter of an hour. I do not think that even the Country Party would want that. I do not think that even the Democratic Labor Party would want that. That would be extending my argument quite a lot. In a debate such as the one we had yesterday one side would have 105 minutes and the other side should have only 72 minutes. I do not believe that even the most biased person in the Senate would want that situation to obtain. 
Therefore I bring the matter before you,  Mr President.  Tonight I have done something thatI have never done before in the Senate.I asked for special leave in order to request you.  Mr President,  your advisers,  Senator Anderson  and the Standing Orders Committee to try to right this situation. There is an old legal maxim that justice not only should be done but also should appear to be done. On this occasion it is notbeing done, and allI am asking is that it appear to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Could confusion exist in the minds  of  those taxpayers who have bought and sold shares, land, property and other items of value, as to their taxation liabilities. 
Has the Treasurer examined the possibility of introducing a rule of law, such as defining a time limit, similar to the British system, as the relevant criterion, rather than the rather nebulous provisions of the taxation acts which use the criterion of intention, as judged by a taxation officer. 
lt is not a case of being in relation to the debate. The Minister is now taking a completely double standard. He is the very person who is forever raising points of order about the use of words very much less offensive than this. 'Subversive' is a very offensive word. It is obviously one which could be libellous if used outside this chamber. I suggest that  Senator McClelland's  point of order should be upheld. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
It has been claimed by  Senator McClelland  that the words used by  Senator Webster  are offensive and he has asked for their withdrawal. 1 ask  Senator Webster  whether he is prepared to withdraw the words to which exception has been taken. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - The honourable senator may speak to the point of order, but 1 remind him that he must confine his remarks to the point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Webster,  are you speaking to the point of order? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator is stretching the liberty that was given to him to speak to the point of order. A point has been taken concerning the withdrawal of words which it is claimed were used by the honourable senator. The honourable senator has permission to speak to the point of order, but 1 should like him to keep within that area rather than open up the general subject of the debate. 
As mentioned by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  when speaking to the amendment,  Senator Byrne  pointed out during the course of his remarks that our proposed amendment uses the word inadequate' which really does not fit in with the rest of the amendment. It denotes something harsher than we intended. I have discussed this with  Senator Wilkinson  who has been handling the Bill, and I ask the Senate to support the request that I now make that we be permitted to add the one word 'sufficiently' to the opening line of our amendment which at present reads: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise . . . 
It now will read: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise sufficiently . . . 
This breaks down the harshness to which  Senator Byrne  referred. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment as amended)  be added. 
Firstly, I do not want to add to the heat which was brought unnecessarily into this debate.  Senator McManus  asked in a general way: Are we timid, shrinking violets? I have been called most things in the course of my political career, but I do not think that until this time I have been called a timid, shrinking violet. The other thing is that  Senator Webster  says we are taking a two-faced attitude to this. 
The honourable senator says 'Hear, hear!' I find it difficult to understand people who are now going to offer to the Commonwealth Government a very strong expression of opinion that it should consider stepping out of this field, in other words, abolishing the Commonwealth section of estate duty, but at the same time would not vote for the proposal that difficulties were aggravated by the joint operation in this field of the Commonwealth and States and that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by early amendment of the Act. Where are the timid, shrinking violets? 
The honourable senator voted for it so he is not in the particular category that I am talking about. 
Perhaps the honourable senator will allow me to continue. This is not a thing that we should be getting very excited about. It is a pretty serious thing, as  Senator Murphy  has pointed out, and I think it should be approached fairly seriously. Far from being shrinking and timid about it, I hope that the day does not come when on the third reading of Bills we have to consider giving virtually a pretty strong indication to the Government to abolish $62m or to move out of that field without giving the matter more serious consideration. I think the amendment that has been carried is one which does give an indication to the Government. I do not want to read it again, but it points out that there are difficulties. 

 Senator Greenwood has touched on the question of 2 governments being in the same field. He indicated also that there would be no certainty of the State governments entering the field vacated by the Commonwealth. He said that he did not think it would happen. There is no certainty that if we stepped out of this field it would not be an invitation for State governments to move further into the field. These are the sorts of things that we have indicated through our amendment should be examined. Surely there has been a fairly general feeling of agreement on this. This is a field of taxation and, therefore, as with all the taxation systems that we have and all the segments of taxation schemes that we have, I do not think it is one that can be approached on this level. All that we tried to do in our amendment, which has been accepted already, was to indicate to the Government that this is a field which should be looked at carefully. Perhaps the Commonwealth could get some indication from State governments as to how far they would want to go and how far public opinion would allow them to move into this area if they had the opportunity to do so.  Senator Anderson  dealt with this as being $62m across the board and said that the Government had tried to do something for the primary industries in which  Senator Webster  is so interested, but  Senator Webster  himself says that he stands for the abolition of this duty across the whole board as applied to everybody. 
This is true and I wondered at the validity of the amendment, although I did not raise this question. But the question whether we should be in this field does not come into this debate. The Government itself has talked at election time and under pressure about a reduction in taxation in different areas for the living - not necessarily for the dead. One wonders whether this is a field of taxation where we should begin an elimination. The Government obviously does not think so because although it has talked about it, so far it has not come around to some form of lowering of the taxation of those in the middle income group. If the Commonwealth is to forego $62m, or $69m as  Senator Greenwood  indicated would be the amount next year, we must consider whether people in the community who have not been able to accumulate money would be given any relief. I do not think we can seriously ask the Senate to make hasty decisions such as that and to come forward on the third reading of a Bill with a suggestion to the Government that it should think seriously of moving out of a field which yields almost $70m. 
I am sorry, but I cannot hear the honourable senator. I am not castigating him because he moved the amendment at this time, and I am not castigating him because it is in his own handwriting and is difficult to read. I believe that amendments should be moved on the floor of this chamber because I think this is what the Senate is for. I am not greatly disturbed if the honourable senator moving an amendment does not give me a copy of it in oils by Rembrandt. But 1 am saying that he is being hasty in moving an amendment on the third reading of the Bill when the substance of the amendment was canvassed in only an offhand way during the second reading debate. 1 return to the point that I do not think an amendment should be moved on the third reading of a Bill without giving all the parties a chance to consider adequately the amendment and to obtain the benefit of the knowledge of those who speak on the amendment. Therefore, I agree with  Senator Murphy  that we ought not to support the amendment at this stage. 
Is the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities aware that the original Expo at Montreal is again to be open this year from 12th June to 7th September under the title 'Man and His 
World'? Has Australia a pavillion there which is not being utilised? Has the Minister read a comment by the Australian parliamentary mission to Canada in 1969 which said that it considered that participation in the exhibition would be. excellent value for money? Can he advise whether this statement has had any influence on him and, if so, whether it is intended that Australia should take part in the exhibition this year? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Is a United States Senate Sub-committee, which is investigating the F111, now examining the question whether, in 1962 and early 1964, reports were made to the United States Government by engineers, to the effect that the actual performances of theF111 aircraft did not approach performances which were claimed for it and which were very much exaggerated; if so, was the Australian Government informed of these reports at that time or was the information concealed from it. 
I rise to indicate briefly what I have indicated already to the leaders of the parties regarding the 2 amendments. I hope not to stray as far from the Bill as some of the previous speakers did. We had all kinds of talks about off-shore legislation, estate duty, and the things that might have been in the Bill but are not. We have had suggestions about things that the Australian Labor Party would like to have in the Bill but which we have never suggested. I do not think that gets us very far, although it might be very good politics over the air. I remind the Senate of the amendment of the Australian Labor Party. We have sought to add certain words to the end of the motion. The motion is: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
We have sought to add:  but the Senate is of the opinion that, while the Bill represents some improvement, a National Health Insurance Commission financed from graduated contributions would pay for medical and hospital services for all more equitably and economically. 
I do not want to go into all the arguments, but I want to point out one or two salient facts. Operating in Australia today in the collection of funds and paying out of funds under the medical scheme are 117 funds in action all at once. Surely honourable senators would agree, without referring to the report of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee report - that it is selfevident that there is a pretty wasteful gathering and distributing of funds under this scheme. This was very trenchantly criticised in the Nimmo Report. 
What the Australian Labor Party scheme would mean, as we have stated briefly tonight, is the substitution for the 117 funds of 1 fund which would be the Taxation Branch. There would be immense savings and much more efficiency in paying out these funds. I have not heard any arguments against that proposition. I did hear  Senator Greenwood  condemn everything that he said was compulsory. 1 did not hear him make any analyses - and he wandered pretty far from the Bill - as to why he did not complain that child endowment is paid out of compulsory levies through the Taxation Branch. Pensions also come from a compulsory levy paid through the Taxation Branch. Indeed a very large part of health costs are paid out of taxation moneys. Insurance has to be compulsory if any kind of governmental assistance is to be given and the Government always takes a very over-simplified approach to this matter and says that the money that is paid in contributions to this compulsory insurance is the sum total of what is paid in. Of course this is not so. This is only a part of it. The medical costs of Australia today are being paid partly out of taxation, which is compulsory, and partly out of the rest of the scheme, which is compulsory if one wants to come under any part of the Government scheme. 
I do not think  Senator Greenwood's  arguments hold very much water when they are closely examined. One of the things which bothers the Australian Labor Party tremendously is that under this scheme the person least able to afford the payments has to pay the most. This is illustrated simply by taking 2 people living side by side and both paying $100 a year for the protection of their family and themselves. One man is paying 60c in the dollar taxation and the other man is paying 20c. At the end of the year the Commonwealth Government says to the comparatively wealthy man or the man who has the higher income: Well, to you, of that $100, we will remit $60 by way of a concessional taxation deduction'. To the man who is paying 20c in the dollar because he is on a smaller income the Government says: 'To you we will give back only $20 out of your $100'. The net result is that the man on the higher income is paying a total of $40 for his cover and the man on the lower income is paying a total of $80. Of course, if a man pays 10c in the dollar in tax, he gets only $10 back. 
How can a scheme like this be justified in this area in which the Government says it is trying to help those people who are less fortunate. This Bill does this to some degree depending on the different angles from which you approach it. These are the reasons why the Australian Labor Party says in its amendment that benefits would be more equitably distributed amongst the people of Australia by introducing the type of scheme which the Australian Labor Party has put forward. This great emphasis on compulsion which we heard from  Senator Greenwood  tonight is already inherent in the whole of our taxation system and the whole field of social services. 
As  Senator McClelland  indicates one can go on ad infinitum. I do not want to go into the whole details of the Bill. Today  Senator McClelland  demonstrated a very broad proposition. He laid a very good ground for the debate. He did a thorough job of research on this and he presented the views of the Australian Labor Party on this amending Bill very succinctly and clearly. The Australian Democratic Labor Party proposed an amendment which has 3 paragraphs. By the amendment the Senate is asked to take this legislation out of this House, to delay it while the Australian Medical Association has a conference.  Senator Byrne  seemed very confident that there would be a delay of only 12 days. I do not know how he can be so confident of this. If we place the decision on what we are talking about tonight in the hands of an outside body - however illustrious that outside body may be - and ask it to decide, it would not know what its conference would do. The matter could be adjourned, or it could be given to a subcommittee to report back to the conference. All honourable senators have been at conferences. We never know at the beginning of a conference exactly how much time is available or what particular item is going to come out at the end of the 3 days or me week or the fortnight or whatever time we allocate. Time and time again these things are delayed. 
The Democratic Labor Party is suggesting that this Parliament should adjourn this Bill and wait at the behest of a conference to say when it shall go on with the legislation. To be fair to  Senator Byrne,  he said that the Senate could fix some time limits, if honourable senators revert to the amendment which was moved by  Senator McClelland  they will note that the Australian Labor Party says that the Bill represents some improvement - and it does. This improvement was indicated in October last year, lt was mentioned again more clearly by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in March this year. It is now the end of May and the benefits contained in the Bill would cover, without any payment, the person who at the time of the legislation last year, was on the minimum wage of $39 a week. But that is now being increased to $45.50 because of the inflationary trend in wages which we have grown accustomed to living with. That amount has now become the minimum wage. At the time that legislation was introduced I thought it would have been an excellent idea if it had been written into the legislation that the amount could move as wages moved. One is going to be faced with increased wages from time to time. As 1 say, this was promised in October and it was indicated again in March of this year. The Australian Labor Party does not see any reason why these very needy people - the most needy people in the community - should be delayed 1 day longer. 
As  Senator Wilkinson  said, these are the promises that are made. He is only in line with what 1 say. When we put this legislation in the hands of the conference we do not know what the discussion is going to be. We do not know how long the conference is going to sit. We do not know what the fate of their decisions or considerations will be. The matter could easily be adjourned. It could easily be handed to subcommittees. The 
Parliament could be in a position where its last position could probably be very much worse than its first position. 
As I understand it, there has been some communication between the doctors and the Minister for Health over a fairly long period of time. This is the responsibility of the Government. This is why in the second reading debate the Australian Labor Party has not gone into far more detail, as some of its speakers have indicated they would like. The Australian Labor Party has not done that because, rest assured  Mr Deputy President,  if we were the Government of this country bringing down a bill tonight it would be a vastly different bill from the one being brought down by the Government. That is why in the second reading stage the Australian Labor Party has stated the broad principle on which it believes a medical scheme in this country ought to be run.  Senator McClelland  has a lot of complicated amendments. I do not envy him his job tomorrow when I think the Senate will be considering them. I think it is desirable that the Senate consider these amendments tomorrow because the Bill was introduced yesterday and the Government requested that the Senate debate the Bill today, lt was quite a complicated job looking at the amendments that had been agreed to firstly by the Australian Labor Party in caucus and then taken to the House of Representatives. Because of the more restrictive standing orders in the other place in regard to moving amendments, some amendments were ruled out of order and others were guillotined completely out of court. They were never considered. All these had to be closely checked. We had the clerks doing an excellent job with us. 
It is true, as the Democratic Labor Party and  Senator Turnbull  pointed out, that these amendments did not come here until fairly late in the evening. But let me assure honourable senators that there were no dilatory tactics on anybody's part. We were working on the amendments all day. I think it would be quite right to defer discussion of these amendments until tomorrow. 
I agree completely that it was nobody's fault. The Bill had to be discussed today. Because of the pressure under which this Parliament has been working delay was unavoidable. The honourable senator has raised the point, f concede immediately that the Senate should not go on with the Committee stage tonight. It should be postponed until tomorrow. But 1 want to get back to the point of the two approaches which the Australian Labor Party has made, lt has stated the broad principle in the second reading speech and what is proposed in the Committee stage. 1 emphasise that this is noi the sort of Bill which we would want to amend. If we were the Government it would be a vastly different kettle of fish. Nevertheless we believe this legislation can be improved. 1 believe there are things which ought to be staled. 1 hope that the Committee of the whole - the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Country Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the independent senator - will look at these amendments with a completely objective view to see whether this Bill cannot be amended further and improved. Those are the reasons why the Australian Labor Party does nol support the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Parly. The Australian Labor Party does not want to make a great issue out of it. As  Senator Byrne  indicated the Democratic Labor Party proposed its amendment in good faith. We do not believe this is the best way to handle this. Because of this the Australian Labor Party will not support the further delay in bringing forward the benefits in this Bill. I. have pointed out these benefits. 1 emphasise again that they strike at the very people in the community whom we all want to help; that is those people who are on the minimum wage today, lt is a great disgrace to our wage structure that the minimum wage is $43.50. I have never quite worked out how people live on it, but at least the Government is doing something in that field. We acknowledge that and we do not want to see the Bill delayed, so I suggest to the Senate that it reject the amendment which has been moved by the Democratic Labor Party and write in the general principle by supporting our amendment. If the Senate does not do this tonight some day in the future, whether it be near or far. the principle will be adopted by the Australian Parliament. 
 I wonder whether the Minister could make a comment on the point 1 shall make. I am interested in the following words which appear in clause 8:   . . a prescribed medical service that is rendered in an operating theatre of an approved hospital by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner approved by the DirectorGeneral . . . 
I wonder whether the Minister can give us any indication of what criteria the DirectorGeneral may apply in distinguishing between one person and another. This is something that is forever being resisted in regulations. Regulations frequently allow a Director-General to do something, but I would always prefer a rule to be laid down in legislation. For instance, I take it, unless I am assured otherwise, that the DirectorGeneral of Health could approve of a legally qualified dental practitioner who has 1 years service and disapprove of another legally qualified dental practitioner who has 10 years service. I wonder whether any criteria are to be applied. I ask the question: Would it not be better to" write in to the legislation what criteria are to be applied? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [5.8] - This, of course, is one of the matters that 1 believe is being examined by the working party in the Department of Health and the Australian Dental Association. We will be advised by the Association as to the oral surgeons to be approved. I also point out that the States do not register dentists as oral surgeons. So this would come back to the overall decision of the Australian Dental Association, and we will accept recommendations from it. But 1 assure  Senator Willesee  that all of these matters are presently being examined by a working party of the Department of Health and the Australian Dental Association. 

 Senator TURNBULL (Tasmania) T5.9] -I think this emphasises the opening remarks in my speech during the second reading debate, when I said that we have left out of this Bill those things which we ought to have put in. As we continue to discuss these amendments, in answer to every point that we have raised so far we have been told by the Minister: 'We are having discussions about that. We are going to do it at some time or other'. 
Does she differentiate between them? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [5. 1 3] I think I have answered already most of what  Senator Turnbull  has brought forward. We have already discussed prescribed services and 1 gave a reply on that question earlier. I have informed the honourable senator that the Government has not reached the point of actually prescribing these services. Recently details of services have been submitted by the Australian Dental Association. These are being discussed further with the working party which, as I have informed the honourable senator, is composed of representatives of the Department of Health and the Australian Dental Association. I have informed the Committee also that this clause gives effect to a recommendation in the report of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, which was the Nimmo Committee. The recommendation was that medical benefits be paid to a specialist oral surgeon for a procedure in which a public hospital operating theatre is required and used. 
1 want to raise again the point that I raised before the suspension of the sitting tonight. This is why 1 support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Turnbull.  If the Committee leaves this clause in and defeats the amendment on which we are about to vote, we will have the situation where a qualified dentist or a dental practitioner will be approved by the Director-General for the purpose of this definition but inevitably we come back to the situation where an officer in a department will discriminate between 2 people as to who will be approved. 
The criteria on which a person is approved should be written very clearly. I do not think that at any time in legislation we should leave the situation where it becomes a matter of the whim of some officer to delineate between 2 people. There could be the situation that a person qualified for 6 months could be given the approval of the Director-General, and the best dentist in a capital city who had been working there for some time would not be given the approval of the Director-General. This is just not good enough in any Commonwealth law. A rule of law as to what these people are should be established and laid down very clearly. 
If a dentist does not hold certain qualifications, a certain type of office or a certain degree of experience he will know that it will be of no use making an application. We will have the situation I have mentioned if the Committee does not accept the amendment. That is why I urge the Committee to accept the amendment and to throw out this clause altogether. If the Government wants to bring it back in another form, at least do as I have suggested, namely, lay down a rule of law and take it out of the hands of some departmental officer who can decide which of 2 persons should be approved. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [9.15] -  Senator Byrne  referred to State registers but all States do not have a register. 
 Senator Greenwood  said that the debate on the proposed amendment had become a battle of philosophies. He went on to add petrol to the flame. He did not do very much to mollify it. A lot of words have been used to describe this amendment, but surely it is simple. Under the present scheme there is a condition precedent that if one does not join an insurance fund one gets nothing. I have always doubted the morality of the situation in which a Commonwealth Government says: 'If you do this, if you can afford to do it or if you choose to do it, then you have an option - an option of getting nothing or getting something from the Government's coffers'. Do not let us start talking about coercion and compulsion and twisting them around.  Senator Prowse,  our friend from the Australian Country Party, dealt with Liberal Party and Labor Party philosophies. I am glad he did not deal with the Country Party philosophy because I have not heard it. I think its philosophy is to tag along. The Country Party is the party of perpetual alibi. If the Liberal Party does something the Country Party says: 'It is not us. We are the junior Party'. If the Australian Labor Party is the government the Country Party says: 'It is not us because we are not the government'. The Country Party has the best of both worlds.  Senator McClelland  has moved a basic amendment on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. This question of coercion was raised on Wednesday night.  Senator Greenwood  chose to repeat his second reading speech. I have no alternative but to answer with the words I used in my second reading speech. 
I will shorten mine immeasurably, too. That is the one good thing  Senator Greenwood  has done since he has been here. He has set an example and it is one which I will follow. The Australian Labor Party has taken this attitude because of a couple of very salient features. While 117 different schemes collect money and distribute it, it is obviously expensive. This situation has been criticised by everybody who has looked at it. By substituting the taxation department with a graduated system of taxation the Government will use the accepted way which exists in all fields of social service and place taxes on the shoulders of those best able to carry the burden. 
As I pointed out at the second reading stage, if 2 people are living side by side and paying $100 a year each under this condition precedent which the Government has insisted on, that is, signing up with an insurance company, and if one person is paying 60c in the $1 in tax on a large income, at the end of the financial year the Government will say to him: 'We are prepared to rebate $60. The Commonwealth will forgo that amount of income. We will give you back $60.' We do not know the circumstances of the man living next door. He may have a larger family. He is paying 10c because he has a small income. At the end of the year the Government says to him: 'We will forgo only $10.' The net result is that the wealthy man pays $40 for his protection but the poor man pays $90. How can honourable senators opposite expect the Australian Labor Party not to complain about this and tell the people of Australia that if it becomes the Government this arrangement shall cease. Let us not talk about coercion in the field of health. 

 Senator Greenwood, as is the way with the Government, tries to make out - inferentially at least - that the whole of the health service of Australia is paid for by the premiums people pay to these insurance companies, health benefit funds, health societies, or whoever collect this money. This is not true. Only a part of the service is paid for in this way. The Government does not hesitate then to go into the coercive field. It does not hesitate to go into the field of compulsion and say that the rest of the cost of the health service will be taken from taxation revenue. The Government does not do this when it is collecting for other social services such as child endowment, age pensions and the rest. We do not want the Government to do this because, obviously, it can put the burden where it belongs by a graduated system of taxation. How can the Government argue against our proposed amendment when there are 117 bodies collecting money? In its legislation the Government is saying quite deliberately that the wealthy shall pay less than the poor for health protection. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [12.11] As I said earlier, I completely oppose the amendment. I think I should answer one or two points which have been raised. Some comment has been made about the area of need. This Government has already stated that in areas of need the contributor pays less because the Government subsidises the benefit. I refer to the free general practitioner service and the free medicine and free hospitalisation for pensioners. Assistance is being given in these areas. I would appreciate your indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  to reply to  Senator Mulvihill.  He said that he had asked a question about reserve funds and he had not received an answer. I have already replied to him in this debate. 
I too will be very brief. I do not know whether the Government has any views on this. Firstly, what  Senator McManus  has said is not quite correct. I stated the other day on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that we did not support the motion for the adjournment of the debate, not because of the suggestion he now puts forward but because of his suggestion that the Parliament should cease to handle an important Bill and hand it to the Australian Medical Association, an outside body, which I understand was not meeting in an emergent meeting but having its normal meeting. It knew for some time that this was going on. 
Already the Australian Labor Party has tried, through what we did a couple of days ago on the question of committees, to give the public and outside bodies every chance to make their voices heard in this Parliament, but at the same time they should realise that machinery must move here as it does in their own organisations, and when they know that these things are coming forward they should make their views known in plenty of time for them to be heeded. What the Senate has done over the past three or four days is perfectly legitimate. Perhaps some people might have wished that we had not done it but the fact is that this is what a house of review is for. We have put forward several amendments to the National Health Bill. 
What is the practical side of this situation? The practical side is that if we sat here until midnight and all day Saturday and Sunday - if the Government wants that it can say so - and we passed the amendments, we would have achieved nothing unless the House of Representatives was sitting. Let us be a little realistic about these things. If it were possible to go on, that would be a different matter. The fact is, however, that we would not achieve anything. The Bill now cannot go through this place and become law because of the amendments to it. There is some difference in our opposing an adjournment to hand the business of the Parliament to an outside body and the Senate taking its normal rights in amending legislation, thereby producing some delay. 
 I wish to speak to this amendment in order to make a suggestion so that we may have the will of the Committee expressed. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator McManus  move an amendment to  Senator McClelland's  amendment in the form of the deletion of whichever paragraphs they believe should be deleted. That amendment would be voted on first. I believe that that would be a way of assisting the Committee to overcome this difficulty. 
This Bill has received wide publicity and it has been the subject of a lot of controversy both in the Press and among some members of the Government parties in another place who opposed it. All in all, the Bill has received publicity at all sorts of levels in the Australian community and in the Commonwealth Parliament. Naturally, there is a great deal of background to the Bill, which has very wide ramifications. I suppose that nearly everything which anybody said about Australian development could be considered to be  relevent  to the Bill. 
Firstly, I want to voice some criticisms of the Government in its handling of the whole question of overseas investment in Australia and the channelling of that investment. I will use this as the base for my speech in this debate. Then I want to proceed to examine the adequacy of the Bill and to deal very briefly with some of its points. I should like to record some comments in Hansard so that other speakers who follow me in the debate can indicate whether or not they agree with those comments. But in order to lay a basis for my own remarks, I shall quote some short segments from the second reading speech which was made in another place by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen).  He said: 
In  recent times while the value of our exports has been increasing at the rate of 8% per annum, the value of our rural exports has been increasing at less than 2% per annum. 
We have to increase our industrial exports. We must get the maximum return we can' from exports of our mineral resources. 
I am skipping some sentences, but I think honourable senators will see that these quotations are relevant to what I am about to say. Further on he said: 
But much more needs to be done to build  in  Australia an industrial structure which can be  a  principal source of export earnings  in  the future  and  which, in the process, will bring lower costs  in  Australia through the economies of larger-scale operations serving wider markets. 
Then he said - and this is one of the significant things which has been the subject of Labor Party criticism of the Government for  a  considerable time: 
Each ton of iron ore, or bauxite, or wood chips,  or  copper, or nickel concentrates, if processed to just one further stage would multiply its earnings many times over. Processed still further, as  I  believe  it  can be, and finding some growing access to world markets in the more highly processed form, the rewards in terms of export income would be still greater. 
Capital inflow brings benefits, but also commitments. We must do everything possible to see that it is used to best advantage. 
It is nevertheless a matter of national concern that overseas capital is usually obtained on terras which have resulted in predominantly foreign ownership of many of our greatest industrial enterprises and fastest growing industries. 
We cannot let ourselves be lulled into feeling that all is well because comfortable aggregate statistical figures show only 20% to 25% foreign ownership of manufacturing. Manufacturing industry, in the statistical records, includes thousands of small establishments designated as factories because they have 4 or more employees or use power. 
In the electrical and electronic industries, including in the total many small enterprises, overseas ownership is around 50%. 
Production of alumina and aluminium is about 75% owned overseas. . . . 
There are enormous difficulties for an Australian manufacturing enterprise to achieve world scale and competitiveness under substantially Australian ownership. And foreign corporations do not. by and large, have the objective of bringing Australian industry to the stage of competing on equal terms with overseas industry. 
This I woul'd underline because I feel it is a tremendous criticism of the way overseas investments have been allowed to come into Australia.  Mr McEwen  further says: 
It is increasingly evident that what is best for a multi-national giant is not necessarily best for Australia. 
I now want to make a final quote which is indeed a remarkable one. He says: 
I know of no important country, other than Australia, where the Government exhibits an indifference as to whether its natural resources or production opportunities are owned in whole or in part by overseas interests. In practically every other nation of the non-Communist world there are policies or procedures or institutions designed to exercise authority or influence upon ownership of industry. 
I would underline particularly tha! last comment. This is the sort of criticism that has been made by the Australian Labor Party over a period of about 10 years and even before that, particularly when the mineral boom started in Australia and these tremendously large amounts of money started to flow in from overseas. But this criticism is not being made  by  the Australian Labor Party, it is not being made by  some academic who is merely doing a ,his/: on overseas investment in Australia, it is being made by no less a person than the  Deputy  Prime Minister himself. Of course one can readily ask what he has been doing over all these years. This is probably a very valid criticism. For my part  welcome converts, even  Mr McEwen,  at this late stage. 
Somebody said Oh. now.' I do not quite get the purport of that. I say that I welcome the convert who will- make a criticism of his own government on the question of overseas imports even at this late stage. I think it is a pretty late stage in his politcal career. I do not think even  Mr McEwen  would say that he is a political tyro in his first few years in politics. 
The honourable senator says that maybe he is a political tyro. Well,  Senator Prowse  would know him belter because he is in the same Party. 1 have never put him down as a political tyro, lt is news to me. I will get back to the Bill and I promise not to be sidetracked again. 1 lay this down, as I say, because here is pretty severe criticism. After all,  Mr McEwen  headed his paper :A Background' and he goes on to deal with what these problems are. What he sets out to do in this - and he sets it out quite clearly - is not to dam the flood of overseas investment in Australia but rather to reshape the type, as he terms it - a good, rich phrase - and that rather than take the overseas equity that we move into a segment of overseas loans. As he points out  -  I will point it out a little later on - because of this equity buying, that is. bringing money into Australia to develop these industries we will finish up with the situation where very big mining companies have up to 95% of their stock owned by overseas companies. This sounded very good in the early days when we were scared by . very big money values with a lot of noughts on the end of them, but when we started to see the amount of profits that were taken off in the first couple of years by these big mining companies we realised that these figures were merely figures after all and the investment was pretty good business anyway. 
I will make some criticisms of the size of this Bill a little later but it starts oil on a very commendable effort to try, in the final analysis, to hold some of our developmental companies in the hands of Australians not only for this generation but, more importantly for the next generation.  Mr McEwen  mentions these things in other contexts. What is the necessity for this? Why after all these years is the Government suddenly starting to say: 'Well, it is not such a good idea after all to be letting overseas companies control our own shows.' I seem to remember a few years ago before he was appointed Treasurer,  Mr Bury  always defending this and saying that it was belter to have unlimited flow - f think I quote him correctly but I am quoting from memory - into the country because the benefits arising out of it on balance would outweight the detriments. The increments would outweight the detriments. We have always had some doubts about this and it appears that we have been proved right because this belated move of the Government is one which is welcomed by the Labor Party because it is u small and tentative step towards grappling with a tremendous problem.  Mr McEwen  says: 
We face a growing burden of income remitted  abroad.  Income remitted overseas by companies in  Australia  has in S years risen from 8.3 Ci to 10.5% of our export earnings. 
I see that that has been challenged by  Mr Kevin  Cairns in another place, but I think that no matter who is right - whether  Mr Kevin  Cairns or  Mr McEwen  is right - the problem still remains. Taking these figures - and I think we should be able to take' figures in the basic second reading speech - they are alarming indeed. Dealing with the same thing  Mr McEwen  says: 
The  capital  which comes from abroad into our industries is itself a major and growing element in Australia's balance of payments. Five years ago total capital inflow was running at $50Om to $60Om in a year. In the past 2 years il has been well over $ 1,000m a year. 
That is doubling over a period of 2 years, which is a pretty, alarming rate. He says, further: 
Capital inflow brings benefits, but also commitments. We must do everything possible to see that it is used lo best advantage. 
With that, of course, we agree. Again, giving more of these figures he said: 
In 1969 alone* at least 15 Australian owned companies with  assets worth $100m,  disappeared  from  the lists of the two largest stock exchanges because of takeover by overseas interests. There are also, of course, many companies which have continued in existence but wilh the overseas ownership growing and becoming dominant. 
I think the most significant thing to happen in Australia over the last few years has been not only the discovery and development of minerals but the fact that simultaneously with these the whole of our primary rural industries find themselves in so much trouble throughout the world and I think it would be a brave man indeed who would be predicting what will be our export income or what is to be the fate of such things as wheat and wool - with that one magic initial letter repeated with which we have grown up since we were schoolboys. But when the  Deputy  Prime Minister says what the Labor Party has been saying for many years, that if we can take these minerals to the second or third stage, this is a different thing. We have always been saying: 'Why not do this?' I remember some 3 or 4 election, campaigns ago - which is about 9 or 10 years ago - the Government was saying that the Japanese did not want this. It said that they did not want our second or third stage, all they wanted was the raw material and we had to put it on a market where we could sell. To me this has always been a negative approach. I believe that if it is possible for them to import, manufacture and export then surely at the pithead we ought to be able to do some form of manufacturing. 
This is an interesting Bill in many ways. It is certainly not Liberal orthodoxy. It is not what the Liberals have been saying and not what they created as the Liberal Party back in 1947, 1948 and 1949. As I say, I am glad to see the change and I think that the split in the Liberal Party over this measure has been caused by those Liberals who have tried to exist on the myth of liberalism, the myth of laissez faire and the myth of a private enterprise system that providing that one lets it run along and lets the buyer and seller find their markets it will be best for everybody in the final analysis. Of course that would be all right in a world where there were no tariffs and no passports - the wonderful dream- but in a world where there are very real tariffs and very real passports and when not everyone can get on that kind of dream is not realised. 
This is not Liberal orthodoxy. This is a situation in which the Government is setting up a corporation as a prime borrower, giving it the backing and prestige of a government. If this develops into what I and a lot of other people want to see it develop into, and what I think it must inevitably develop into the way Australia will go, this is far from Liberal orthodoxy. If it does develop, but not in its present form, it will be one of the most radical things that we have seen in our lifetime. One newspaper noted that this is probably the greatest economic radicalism to come to Australia since the nationalisation of banking. Whether some Liberals who were complaining about this had read that article, I do not know. Whether that happens remains to be seen, but because I want to underline what I think could be the importance of this I merely draw the distinction between what Liberals believed some years ago and the comments that some newspapers have made on the proposal. 
So far many of the things we have done in similar fields have been merely a shoring and propping up of weak sisters. We have seen it in subsidies to some forms of primary industry. I am not condemning all forms of subsidy to primary industry. I merely say that many of the subsidies to primary industry, as plenty of documents in the pigeon holes of this Parliament will show, have been merely shoring up weak sisters which, no matter how much subsidy is given them, finally will not succeed. The eternal battle goes on in relation to tariffs and one wonders whether we are not erecting a tariff wall so high that behind it weak and inefficient companies are able to prosper and go ahead. One would hope that this would be avoided in the corporation. It should not happen. The Bill in its construction certainly has thrown its net very wide. There are provisions such as that no government direction will be tolerated, that the directors will be appointed and reappointed by the board and so on. The Bill states specifically that this has to be looked at from an economic point of view. This Bill will not be defeated because the whole of the Labor Party will support it and at least half of the members of the Government parties will support it as well, so there is an alliance which will ensure that the Bill is passed. 
I come now lo the question of whether SI 00m capital - the corporation starts with $25m - will be sufficient to grapple with the problem before us. We wonder whether it is too late in certain areas, as 1 shall mention a little later, and whether when the Labor Party was making quite an issue of this some 10 years ago that may not have been the time to move into a corporation. There are plenty of indications that many overseas countries have done so. I quoted a little while ago from  Mr McEwen's  speech where it is stated that other countries in the world have done something about controlling capital investment from overseas, lt is not merely a question of capital investment from overseas but, dealing with such areas as mining, for example, it is a question of the rate of production, the rate of growth and the rate of control that young Australians will have of their companies in the. years to come. I do not want io quote a lot of figures. I never like doing that. I mentioned $25m which will grow to $10Om. When we look at private investment in 1969 we see that over $2,500m was allowed to flow into all kinds of avenues in Australia and one wonders whether the proposed amount is enough. The estimated capital inflow last year - I never know how economists work out the exact capital inflow - was $l,l49m. If we are trying lo do battle with $100m versus $1,1 49m we are starting from a few yards behind scratch. 
I said earlier that 1 wondered whether this was loo late. The figures, as accurate as they can be, indicated that already two.fifths of a lot of our big companies are controlled by foreign hands. That is a big proportion because foreign investment, the development of our minerals and the rapid expansion of Australia have been going on, not for over a century or so but certainly not earlier than since the end of the war and for a very much shorter period - for the past 10 or 15 years. This becomes vital in Western Australia, particularly in the north west section of the State, because there was a dream of developing the north, a dream that I think every good Australian had - 1 certainly had it because my birthplace was in that area - that one day we would see some development in the region. I am talking now of one section of the north west where once we had 25,000 people but shortly - in 8 or 10 years - we may have 250,000 people. Although that is not a lot of people in a very large area, I believe that 10 to 1 is a pretty good ratio of improvement. 
What worries anyone who visits these places and who looks at the contracts that we have with Japan merely lo dig the minerals out of the ground and sell them, thus putting ourselves in the hands virtually of one overseas buyer and not being able then to compete if we even started to develop to the secondary and tertiary stages of development, is that we will finish up wilh a hole in the ground. There has been remarkable development. Of course there always is in mineral areas. In Western Australia which was the last of the gold producing States it was not unusual to see a clay pan develop into a very large mining town, but Western Australians became accustomed to seeing that town go back to a ghost town. That is a feeling which is always very close to people who have lived in mining districts, lt would be the greatest shame of our generation if that were allowed to happen in the northern area. 
When we look at the very well known firm of Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd we see that only one-fifth of its capital is owned by Australian investors. The position becomes alarming when one goes deeper and finds that Hamersley itself is 54% owned by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, 36% by Kaiser Steel and 10% by the Australian people. Even that does not sound too bad but when we find that CRA itself is 85% owned by overseas interests the proportion of Australian owned capital in Hame; ;!ey drops io 5%. We wonder, therefore, whether the efforts which is being made by the Government is not too little and, certainly in the case of Hamersley, too lule. 
There has been some criticism about whether the corporation will duplicate the Australian Resources Development. Bank. I do not worry greatly whether that  h  so but. 1 did notice that there was no criticism from some of the o!d world Liberals when that Bank was introduced. All the Government had to do was to bring before the Parliament a Bill containing the name of a bank. I think that as soon as one mentions the word 'bank' to those outdated Liberals, that is magic and every thing is all right, but if it is "corporation' that is Socialism and one has to be very careful of thai. The magic work 'bank' seemed to solace them in those days. I have noticed that since talk about the proposed corporation began the Bank has suddenly become very active. A newspaper article mentioned a borrowing by the Bank of $12m in Euro-dollars in this way: 
Right on the eve of the introduction of a Bill in Federal Parliament for the formation of the rival IDC, the banker-owned Resources Bank has announced that arrangement have been completed for a further Euro-dollar borrowing of $US12m. 
This follows the Bank's previous large borrowing in the Euro-dollar market of $US20m which was announced only 3 weeks ago. 
Prior to that, the only borrowing the Bank had made from overseas sources was as a participant to the extent of SUS2.4m. 
At least this has galvanised the Bank into doing something as is apparent from the sudden degree of borrowings compared to the paucity of borrowings until that time. The big buyer of our wool and metals is Japan. The Japanese are nothing if not efficient. For a long time we have heard of wool pies. The Japanese buyers know exactly what they want and they do not compete with one another in the classic way that people like to think they compete on the buying market. It seems to me that the Japanese are far more efficient in their buying in all sorts of fields than Australians are in their selling. 
I want to deal now with the situation in overseas countries and what they have been doing in the development field for donkeys' years. We are just beginning to take our first hesitant and tentative step in that area. Japan has organised itself not only in the field of buying but also has created a developmental bank, beginning not with $25m but a much greater sum than that. Today it has $3617m in assets. Investors wishing to enter the field in Japan soon realise that the Japanese Government does not hesitate to regulate them. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  appears a little hesitant in saying in relation to this measure that investors will not be regulated. In Japan they are regulated very harshly. Through development banking the Japanese not only help their own people but also impose regulations on investors from overseas. Overseas investors will never get 50% control of a Japanese company. They will do what the Government says and invest the amount of capital that the Government directs them to invest in a particular industry. 
The Australian Labor Party supports this Bill. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam)  in his last policy speech made it very clear that if we were elected as the government we would move into the development banking field, but we certainly envisaged going much further than this Bill does.  Mr Whitlam  said, if I remember correctly, that we would do something on the lines of the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale of Italy. We said that tax concessions or tax incentives would be offered to induce the insurance companies to disgorge the tremendously large amounts of capital they hold for investment in the development field. We would have direct investment beside private enterprise in Australia. The Government does not always boggle at this procedure, as instanced by the fact that it has taken up a shareholding of $25m at Bougainville as a direct investment with a private company. It has not done so at Gove. Although a call has been made for a long time for investment capital for the Robe River project the Government has not heeded it. 
Amax Iron Ore Corporation, which is operating in the extreme north of Western Australia, has offered opportunities for capital investment by Australians, but Australians are reluctant to invest because they do not know clearly what the ideas of that organisation are.  Mr McEwen  has indicated that overseas companies do not always set up in Australia to go full bore in a competitive sense throughout the world. A company can be set up in Australia and then be prohibited from exporting to certain areas because it would be competing there with its American or British parent company. The board of the company directs its subsidiaries not to compete in those areas.  Mr McEwen  has said that this policy might be very good for multi-million dollar companies but it is no good for Australia. As I gauge the feeling in regard to the Amax Corporation, although opportunities are made available for Australian capital Australian investors are reluctant to invest because they are not sure that they are putting their money into a company which will do its best at all levels for its investors. 
I am not saying that what the Government did at Bougainville it should do with other private enterprise companies. I am not brash enough to say that the Government ought to invest in these things, but at least it ought to examine the possibilities of investment in the projects i have mentioned. I have referred to taxation incentives and direct investment. The third point is the setting up of a company on the lines of the Italian Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale. What is IRI? I suppose that when  Mr Whitlam  referred to that organisation many people began to conduct some research on it. In Japan, South Africa and Italy developmental finance organisations have grown out of necessity, just as this Bill has grown out of necessity. Pressure has been generated over a long period by overseas investment in Australia. The IRI is one of the most important organisations in Italy. It was forced on the Italians following the Wall Street crash in 1933, when the banks were in difficulties they could not overcome. The Italian Government had to attempt to reconstruct the banks. By the time that process was completed the Government had entered into so many activities throughout Italy that it was very difficult for it to retreat and leave the field to the banks. 
Following World War If there was a very urgent need for reconstruction in Italy. There is not much doubt that the IRI is responsible for what can be described as a miracle of post-war reconstruction in Italy. The IRI has moved into a lot of fields, such as telephone services, that we take for granted. 1 would not like any Liberals to be worried that it is a highly over-socialised venture. About 450,000 Italian citizens have invested in this government cum private enterprise company. For every lira that the Italian Government invests in IRI, private investors invest 12 lira. So the proportion of private investment to government investment is 12 to 1. It is not an overloaded top-heavy government show, lt takes on tremendous jobs. For some social projects it enters under-developed regions such as the Neapolitan area of Italy, a poorer part of the country. The extent of the projects undertaken is never overwhelming so that they never become losing propositions or white elephants. From my reading on the subject it seems that that has never happened. 
This sort of step has been taken in every modern country in the world. The Government has made a tentative step to introduce developmental finance in Australia in cooperation with private enterprise by its investment at Bougainville. 1 do not think any 
Liberals were upset about that. It seems to me to be a very sensible move which could be repeated in other parts of Australia. The Labor Party believes that the Italian IRI should be looked al. The idea could be extended and there could be tremendous co-operation. I do not think private companies would worry about having governmental assistance. I have never heard complaints on that score from Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. That company is on good terms with the Government. The procedure seems to work very well in other parts of the world. 
Away back in 1940 the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa was set up. There are slight differences in this type of organisation in different countries. The IDC of South Africa resembles the 1RT of Italy. The South African IDC has a special Small Industries Division which was created in 1 962, in response to the level of demand by smaller businessmen. Until 1962 almost 43% of the propositions accepted by the IDC were below R50.000. 1 think that shows very clearly that it is not a socialistic enterprise. Certain social projects are welded in with the development of South Africa. Training schemes are held for people going into the Bantu areas, lt is a statutory corporation established with the aim of facilitating, promoting, guiding and assisting in the financing of new industries and industrial undertakings, schemes for the expansion, better organisation and modernisation of and the more efficient carrying out of operations in existing industries and industrial undertakings. After being established in 1940, in 1942 it developed a little further to establish and conduct any industrial undertaking. It took that extra step that inevitably this Bill will take. 
I will not deal with the Bill in detail because I. have spoken a little longer than I intended, but I want to make some criticisms of the Bill. I notice that clause 16 repeats the old mistake: It is true that the salary is not fixed by just anybody and everybody but I hope that the Government will take notice of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee on this point. I hope the Government will tidy up that aspect of the Bill, but I do not think it is important enough to talk about it now. I believe the Bill certainly is a basis on which a future Labor government could work, but it is too small and too late. It should have been introduced years ago. The Government finally is standing up and recognising the problem. The Government recognises it, I think, in pretty forceful language, according to what the Minister for Trade and Industry has said. 
As does every other country in the world, we have to weld happiness into prosperity because people do not get very much happiness from smoke coming out of a chimney. That may indicate prosperity. That may indicate the introduction of a lot of overseas capital into the economy and that we have been able to achieve something in the short term that we would have had to wait for the long term to be able to achieve otherwise. It indicates that. It does not indicate that many people are any happier. Some areas - and in some cases Western Australia is suffering from this - are enjoying a great industrial boom. The population in Western Australia is increasing twice as fast as the national average, but all it is producing is expensive houses and expensive land. The ordinary person in the street is not all that much better off. If factories are built in the middle of residential suburbs, the ordinary person who lives there is much worse off. As I see it, what we have to do in a rapidly developing world - and Australia is a rapidly developing country - is to weld some kind of happiness into prosperity. 
In our mining areas in 30 years time we do not want to have less people than we had a few years ago, markedly less people than we have today, a great hole in the ground after the initial contracts have finished, rusting railway lines and a wharf that nobody wants to use. I think this will be the inevitable result of our mining expansion unless we do what the Minister for Trade and Industry advocated and what the Australian Labor Party advocated 10 or 15 years ago. It is not good enough for us to be the quarry for Japan. We have to enter into the other stages of development. I think it is a completely defeatist attitude to say that we cannot produce at the pithead, move into the secondary and tertiary stages and compete with these people on world markets. That is one of the things that must be done. Do not make any mistake about that. I repeat that Australia is up against tough customers. I think that in any field in which we move in the international market - whether it be in foreign affairs or in the trade area - we wilt always find competition tough. As honourable senators will have noticed, overseas countries agree to buy only about 40% of a product from a particular country. In other words, they do not get themselves in pawn to the sellers. We are inclined to be putting ourselves in pawn to the buyers. We are not as efficient as sellers as they are as buyers. 
I hope that the Corporation will get off the ground. It has been damned with a lot of faint praise. It has been held back in many ways. I can see ail kinds of loopholes in the Bill, but the Australian Labor Party does not object to it. We accept it because it is the best we can get under present circumstances. We have talked about a corporation for many years. In our policy speech prior to the last general election we made it abundantly clear that we would do this and more. Therefore, we support the Bill. My personal view is that the Corporation is absolutely essential for Australia. It will develop and do a lot more than it is doing today. In spite of the fact that the capital will be small and in spite of the fact that it is hedged with all kinds of safeguards that could inhibit it in its early stages, we support the Bill for the Bill that it one day will be. We think that one day an Australian Labor Party government could make it a very worthwhile instrument for the development of Australia and finally for the happiness of its people. 
 I gave this provision of the Bill serious consideration when examining  it  earlier. 1 appreciate  Senator Wood's  reaction. He has had a lot of experience in this field as  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinance Committee. In my many years as a member of that Committee I found that the Committee came across this matter several times. As I understand the situation the Government has cast a wide net in many respects in this Bill. At first I was inclined to be critical of the Bill. I am still critical of some provisions of it, but 1 appreciate the problems which the Government has encountered. 
I understand that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is making a survey of the cases which would come within the provision of clause 9 of this Bill. In other words, it is determining what salaries are fixed by the Governor-General in this manner and what salaries come under the scrutiny of the Parliament, either by way of subordinate legislation or substantive legislation. Because of this I did not raise this question earlier. I am sure that the Regulations and Ordinance Committee will give the matter the consideration it deserves when it comes before the Committee. I do not know whether it will come before the Committee in the form of substantive legislation or subordinate legislation. However, 1 hope that the Government will lay down certain guidelines. I take it that when this happens the clear view would be that the provisions would be subject to amendments from time to time. I would expect that when we have established the datum peg, that would be the time to amend the provision. This is a matter that we have raised from time to time when dealing with other Bills of this nature. These are the reasons that we gave on other occasions and the reasons why we gave this matter much consideration but decided not to oppose it. 
1 shall be very brief. If we take  Senator Branson's  argument to its logical conclusion it would mean that the Opposition would be inhibited, to say the least, in using what has been a clear part of the Standing Orders for many years. The honourable senator does not think that the matter debuted this morning was urgent but we thought that it was urgent. Because of the political state that we are going through we on the executive of the Australian Labor Party are becoming inundated with various sections of the community wanting to have their matters put before the Parliament. We saw an instance of this last week while debating a Bill and we saw it again this week in the debate on another Bill. I refer to the National Health Bill and the Homes Savings Grant Bill, both of which were handled by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin).  In those debates we had the experience of various sections coming up very late in the piece and putting different matters before the Opposition as to the way in which the matters should be handled by the Parliament. The fact is that the Australian Labor Party has rejected many of these. We have culled them very carefully and have raised only those we considered to be urgent. We considered this matter as urgent. By an arrangement with the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  at our suggestion we did nol debate this matter for the full 3 hours but cut the debate off under 2 hours. We believed that a short sharp discussion would contribute to making our point. 
I do not think anybody can be serious in saying that the Opposition has been trying to hold up the business of the Senate. The very fact that we are sitting here on a Friday at this hour is evidence of that. As a matter of fact, while I was sitting here listening to the Bills being discussed this afternoon it seemed to me that members of the Government were unnecessarily raising matters. But I concede that if they want to deal with legislation at length that is their right. 1 understand that at this stage of a session people can get frustrated. But after all, what is a parliament for? Is it not to enable us to talk? 
If we accede to what  Senator Branson  says today we shall, as an Opposition, be giving a lot to the Government and giving away our right to initiate business. I do not think any responsible person wants a parliamentary opposition to do that. If we did that, Australia would fall into the category of those other countries of the world, which people like  Senator Branson  frequently criticise, in which there are no oppositions. We cull these matters out, and if we think they are urgent we raise them. We think the matter we raised this morning was urgent. As  Senator Prowse  said, it is a matter of opinion. I do not think that anybody can say that we have not co-operated with the Government to get legislation through and to consider Government business. But the Opposition should be allowed to initiate what business we consider urgent. 
 The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. This measure arises out of those rather hardy annuals that we read about from time to time when the Premiers of the States travel forth in the glare of publicity to Canberra to discuss their requirements, never get what they want and go back home again. I do not want to go deeply into this matter, particularly in view of the period that we are going through. I suggest to the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  that in future years the submissions from the Premiers should be made available in some way to this Parliament. There may be some difficulties on a departmental level in doing this, but it seems to me that we approach all these measures with a tremendous lack of knowledge. When the Premiers corns to Canberra to discuss these things with the Commonwealth there should be built up behind these people a much greater body of information than we have today. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission is one body which over the years has fitted into the scheme of special financial assistance being provided to the States. Anybody who has read the reports of the Commonwealth Grants Commission over the years could not fail to be tremendously impressed with the work of the Commission. The Commission's reports have been the basis on which Governments have worked, particularly in the days when there were 3 claimant States. It seems to me that as we get into this very rapid development in Australia we have to take a much broader look at the problems. All honourable senators remember the talks that we had on water, for example. It will be remembered that the Australian Labor Party proposed at the time that there should be a national plan for water and a body which could look at the question of water as a whole. This idea could be extended to many regions. If we had backing the Premiers and the talks that take place bodies such as a national water organisation, a national roads organisation or a national finance organisation, everybody would come to the talks with a much better knowledge of the subjects. 
If a State is pressing for a dam and there is an agreement that the State should receive special grants to enable it to construct that dam, 1 often wonder whether this is a correct procedure. Perhaps another State should have an additional water supply or perhaps another State should be embarking on another form of development rather than one involving water, lt seems to me that, because this has to be welded with the pressures within a State and probably the politics at a particular time, there is a very great need to set up behind these talks and behind the whole field of Commonwealth-State relations overall bodies to look at the development of Australia as a whole. Without going deeply into this matter - if we did open this debate up all sorts of things could come into it - and because we are not opposing the measure 1 do not intend to say very much more. I merely suggest to the Minister that in future debates of this kind any documents should be laid before the Senate, particularly the propositions that are put forward on behalf of the States by the Premiers. In the long term view - this is something that ought to be talked about at these meetings - some body of opinion should be developed. I have referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I know that it had special facilities and a special job, and I do not want to be bound to what it connotes, but a type of body such as that could be recommending to the Premiers and to the Commonwealth Government overall forms of development rather than having to look each year at what any particular State wanted. The Opposition does not intend to ho'.d this Bill up in any way. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Further to a previous question, answered on 12th May 1970, could the Treasurer give some details of the problems which he says could exist in establishing a new rule of taxation law, possibly based on the length of time property is held. 
Does the Treasurer consider that the anomalies created would be greater than those which arise by having the decisions made by a taxation officer. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many computers have been installed in (a) government departments, (b) statutory corporations, and (c) universities, when were they installed, and what was their total cost. 
How many computers are currently on order, and what is their estimated total cost. 
What advice is or was available to government departments, statutory corporations and universities with regard to the purchase of computers most suitable to their needs. 
For the purpose of this question a computer has been defined as including the central processing unit and all on-line equipment. 
The information provided in the answer relates to digital computers used for data processing purposes. Analogue computers, which are special devices of a completely different order used for scientific purposes, and digital computers used for special purposes such as in aircraft, mission simulators, weapons trainers, message switching and so on have been excluded. This is in line with the practice adopted in the Auditor-General's annual report. 
In addition, where the cost of a particular computer already installed varies from that which I provided last year in answer to a similar question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives (Hansard, 29th and 30th May 1969, page 2585 et seq), the varied cost is attributable to subsequent purchase or lease of additional peripheral equipment or the re-arrangement of equipment. 
In this context, the relevant Ministers have provided the following information in answer to Parts (1) and (2) of the honourable senator's question: 

<graphic href="044232197006163_20_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="044232197006163_21_9.jpg"></graphic>

(i) The Public Service Board has advised that most Commonwealth government departments have their own experienced staff to advise on the purchase of computers most suitable to their needs. In addition, departments make use of the advice that is available to them from the Commonwealth Public Service Board's A.D.P. Development Branch, which acts as a central source . of reference on such matters within the Public Service. On the more important matters the advice of an interdepartmental committee, established in 1960 to co-ordinate automatic data processing activities of Commonwealth Government administration, is also available to departments. . 
The services of private enterprise consultants are also available and have been used by departments in a limited number of cases. These services have not. however, been used to assist wilh the evaluation nf tenders and the selection  of  equipment. 
In relation to statutory corporations, the evaluation of processing requirements and computer equipment is essentially a matter for the corporation itself, acting on the basis of its own commercial judgment. Practices vary according to the particular circumstances: however, evaluations are usually carried out by study groups within the staff of the authority who may have regard to the advice of equipment manufacturers and distributors, universities etc. The Public Service Board's A.D.P. Developmental Branch and the interdepartmental committee are also available to advise on computer matters. Private enterprise consultants have also been used on a limited number of occasions. 
The Minister for Education and Science has advised that the universities obtain advice on the purchase of computers from various sources. In particular, they seek the advice of their own staff, many of whom possess considerable expertise in the computing field. In addition, they consult with other universities both in Australia and overseas, and advice is also available from CSIRO, State Governments' and business organisations. Several universities have set up committees to assist in the assessment  of  their own particular needs. 
The Bill that we are about to discuss is a Bill for an Act to establish a Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and for purposes connected therewith. I emphasise the word 'establish', because this is to be a completely new corporation. The term Snowy Mountains', incorporated in the name of the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority, has become very famous in Australia over the last 20 years. The Authority is phasing out with the completion of the Snowy Mountains scheme. The new Corporation to be set up will do more general work and on a very much more limited scale. I intend to stick pretty closely to the objections of the Australian Labor Party and briefly to outline the powers of the new Corporation. It would be very easy to deal with the original scheme, because it has now grown to be a very great and efficient organisation. It has had a stormy history politically. I think that it has been adequately debated before the Australian public and that there would not be any great point in my continuing it in the dying stages of this session. 
I think it is fair to say that the Government has been reluctant over a period of time to introduce this Bill. It has suffered a lot of criticism and there have been a lot of pressures. The Australian Labor Party has had a lot to say about it. Prominent engineers who have been associated with the Snowy Mountains scheme have criticised the fact that the Authority has been allowed to run down as far as it has. We support the Bill, but we intend to move amendments to it because we feel that the new Corporation will be hamstrung in many ways. I suppose the great success of the Snowy Mountains scheme stems from the boldness that was displayed. It was undertaken with technical knowledge some of which had been gained prior to the turn of the century. People had been brought from overseas by the New South Wales Government in the early 1930s. It was finally the boldness of one man, the late Ben Chifley, who stood up and said: 'Here is the finance for it,' that led to the work being commenced. A lot of people have received credit for it.  Mr Nelson  Lemmon was the Minister in charge at the time. I have always thought it was boldness which enabled the Snowy Mountains scheme to develop. But that boldness is lacking in the scheme before us today. The success of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme stems from the fact that it was placed under the administration of a very great man in  Sir William  Hudson who moved in with government backing but with all the courage and imagination of a great engineer. In no time he had brought people together from all over the world; he spread his tentacles all over the world picking up contracts and doing all those things that were necessary to bring the scheme to fruition. 
I have  circulated  a paper which shows not only the clauses we support but  also  the  clauses  we intend to  oppose  hoping that by so doing  honourable senators  will learn the gravamen of our objection. It could be summed up in  a  sentence by  saying  that it seems to us that the Government set out to establish what ought to be in the best interests of private  industry -  which is what the Liberal Party talks about - that is, competition with other engineering firms  and  other firms doing this sort of work in Australia. But then the Government hedges the Corporation  around  with so many  restrictions  that we feel that if any government or Minister was not very anxious to do something about the proposal it, or he, could easily  stultify  it. Clause 17 shows what work has to be done. I will not read it out now  because  I will be dealing with it a little later. I would like to quote  clauses  24 and 30 to indicate what is  expected  of this Corporation. Clause 24, the side note of which is 'Financial policy of Corporation', states: 
In the exercise of its functions the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed towards securing, in each financial year, revenue sufficient - 
to meet the expenditure of the Corporation properly chargeable to revenue of that year; 
to enable the Corporation to make provision for income tax; and 
to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation. 
In other words, it is set up in a completely  financially  viable way to pay its share of income tax as other private  organisations  in Australia would have to do and to make a return on capital as we presume  certain  other  organisations  would have to make  a  return on capital payable to either their  partnerships  or their public  companies.  Clause 30 refers to the  transfer  of reserve for future or contingent liabilities. It states: 
Where, in a financial year, the revenue of the Corporation is more than sufficient - 
to meet the expenditure of the Corporation properly chargeable to revenue of that year; 
to enable the Corporation to make provision for income tax; and 
to make payments to the Commonwealth in accordance with section 26 of this Art. the Corporation shall transfer the amount of the surplus to  a  reserve for future or contingent liabilities. 
That is what it is expected to do, but one should look at the other side of the picture. This will be dealt with in detail in the Committee stage but I shall briefly summarise the restrictions placed on the Corporation, which come under about 7 headings. A consultative committee will be formed to advise the Minister for National Development whether the Corporation should undertake certain engineering works. Nor only will the Corporation be looking at its own responsibilities and going ahead or advising the Minister that it will go ahead, but we find that there is a barrier put between the Corporation and the Minister. I shall deal with the composition of the consultative committee in a moment or two. I shall point out that it is made up of private enterprise - - that is, the people we would expect the Corporation to be competing with. 
The second restriction placed on the Corporation concerns the type of engineering work that it can perform. It is restricted to construction outside Australia. It is necessary for the Corporation to obtain ministerial approval for any work proposed to be undertaken by it. Private consultant engineers may engage the Corporation as a consultant for work done in Australia if the Corporation is to operate for a private firm. The Public Service Board has control over the terms and conditions of employment of staff by the Corporation. This would obviously place it at a disadvantage when trying to engage highly qualified technologists or engineers, the type of people who are in such short supply today. The Minister has control over the number of staff to be employed by the Corporation. I suggest that this is a restriction which ought not to be placed on an organisation which is expected to go out and compete in what we can see is a very competitive field. 
These restrictions will have 10 be discussed now or in Committee. It will probably save time in Committee if I refer to them now. In clause 16 of the Bill we find that the consultative committee, which is to be set up as a body to advise the Minister - a body on which the Minister can lean or to which he can turn for information - is to consist of 4 members appointed in relation to engineering works in Australia and elsewhere. I should like the Minister later to explain a little more clearly the term 'in Australia and elsewhere'. Section (b) of clause 16 states that the committee shall consist of 2 members appointed in relation to engineering works outside Australia. That makes a total of 6 members of whom 4 shall be appointed in relation to engineering works in Australia and elsewhere and 2 shall be representatives of the engineering profession appointed in relation to engineering works outside Australia. The members of the consultative committee shall be appointed by the Minister and shall hold office on such terms and conditions as the Minister determines. The Minister may request the committee to advise him whether a function of the Corporation under the next succeeding section, which relates to the general function of the Corporation, should be exercised by the Corporation in respect of a particular engineering work and, if so, how that function should bc exercised by the Corporation in respect of that work, and the committee shall advise the Minister accordingly.  lt seems to me that the Corporation, whenever it is going to operate, will have a fair few shackles on it. Section 17 of the Bill contains a very wide charter. It sets out the functions of the Corporation, subject to that section, as being the carrying out of investigations and the furnishing of advice in relation to water resources and the carrying out of investigations and the furnishing of advice in relation to soils, rocks or materials used in the construction of engineering works in Australia or elsewhere. The Corporation will be carrying out investigations and giving advice in relation to sites, designs or construction of engineering works in Australia or elsewhere. lt will be designing engineering works in Australia or elsewhere and will have the supervision of contracts for the construction of engineering works in Australia or elsewhere. Another of its tasks will be the construction of or performance of any work in relation to the construction of engineering works outside Australia. I emphasise that in relation to construction it has been necessary to impose the restriction that the work is to be done outside Australia, and the expression 'in Australia or elsewhere' is not used in that instance. 
The old Snowy Mountains Authority did some amazing work. It broke a great deal of new ground. Its people performed work by sub-contract and by the use of its own laboratories and the like. The restrictions 1 have referred to appear in the proposed sub-section 3 of section 17. None of these things is to be done except with the approval of the Minister and only in accordance with any conditions to which the approval is expressed to be subject. So that if the Corporation decides that it ought to carry out a particular work, the Minister will refer the matter to his advisory body, the members of which are to be drawn from engineering works inside and outside Australia. This could act as a highly professional advisory body, but it is possible that its members could in respect of some works anticipate a clash with private companies in Australia. In those circumstances the advice they would give to the Minister might be: It is not such a good idea, after all. 1 am not sure of the attitudes that will be adopted by the senior officers of a corporation such as the one we are discussing when they have to work under such restrictions. One of the great advantages of the old scheme came through the number of young engineers who were trained in Australia and also sent overseas for 12 months to work on other irrigation sites. That training ground offered a tremendous thrill and excitement for young ambitious Australian engineers. My reading of this proposal has not led me to believe that the same thrill and excitement will be open to the young engineers who would be eligible to work for the Corporation. I sincerely hope that I am wrong in that belief. I would love to be wrong in that respect. 
I feel that the Corporation will be restricted in what it ought to be doing. It certainly hits on some of the things that require attention, such as the flow of water and the transmission of electricity. There are bodies in Australia that have certainly had great experience in those fields. I do not know how many of them are left. I do not think the Corporation ought to be restricted. It could direct its attention to other projects such as railway works that require construction in Australia. I would like to see the Corporation increasing its activities, getting larger, building up its capacity and using its tremendous knowledge to develop what could be the cornerstone of great engineering works in Australia. The national development of any country like Australia is a great challenge. Our scope for development probably could be equalled by very few countries in the world. I do not wish to go into this matter very deeply now because we will be developing it at the Committee stage. 
I do not think that the Minister should be saying to the Corporation, in effect: You cannot employ any engineers unless you consult me. 1 will put an upper limit on the number of people that you are to employ'. Last week we were dealing with the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the argument was advanced that it was necessary to move quickly in order to obtain the people with the highly developed skills necessary to run the organisation. They are in short supply throughout the world and it was said that it was necessary to move very quickly to obtain them. That argument can be advanced with equal authority in respect of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
The question of salaries will have to be referred to the Public Service Board. This again seems to be an unnecessary restriction that will not hinder the activities of other engineering works in Australia which will be competing with the Corporation. We would have liked to see a very much wider body created. However, we do not oppose the Bill. I suppose it could be said that for a long time we have been the people in Australia who have done the most pleading with the Government not to allow the Snowy Mountains Authority to run down but to keep the skilled staff together as the Snowy scheme drew to a close. This Bill has come in very late. It should have been introduced much earlier when the teams employed by the Authority were in a compact body. I trust that enough of those men are still available to form a nucleus of the new organisation. 
Because of the restrictions in the Bill we intend to invite the Senate to amend it. Certainly we do not want to destroy the organisation; we want to see it as a very much bigger body which will develop much more quickly than we are afraid the proposed body will develop. We intend to support the Bill but, for some of the reasons that I have stated, we will oppose some of the clauses as outlined in the sheet which I have circulated to honourable senators and seek to amend other clauses. We shall invite the Senate to assist us in establishing a Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which will be more in keeping with the former organisation, and which we feel will bc able lo do very great work in Australia and which we feel will be able to do very great work in Australia and which is long overdue for introduction into the Australian engineering set-up. 
As foreshadowed in my speech on the second reading I move: 
In sub-clause (1.), paragraph (f), leave out outside Australia', insert 'in Australia or elsewhere'. 
We do not seek any change to the remaining phraseology of the clause. As I pointed out in my speech on the second reading, the reason for this amendment is that in this clause we establish the functions and powers of the Corporation. We allow it to do all things, including the supervision of contracts for the construction of engineering works in Australia, and yet it is not proposed to allow it to perform the construction of engineering works in Australia. We believe that most of the work undertaken by the Corporation would be done by subcontractors, but we can envisage instances where small jobs would be done by the Corporation. If it is not permitted to carry out the construction of those jobs it would have to be subcontracting with all sorts of small organisations. We do not think this would be in the best interests of efficiency. I understand that most of the work on the Snowy Mountains hydroelectric scheme was performed by subcontractors, as the work was quicker, easier and cheaper when the sub-contractors moved in with their own teams. It is for those reasons that I have moved the amendment 

 Senator COTTON (New South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) 111.37]- The amendment as proposed would allow the Corporation to undertake construction within Australia. It was decided that the construction function of the Corporation should be carried on only outside Australia. The view was taken that the Commonwealth Department of Works, under the administration of my colleague  Senator 
Wright. was the Commonwealth constructing authority and that there was ample Department of Works capacity available in the States. It was believed that the Corporation proposed for the Snowy should not be allowed to compete with Commonwealth and State Departments of Works in the field of actual construction. There is also the possibility that without thisrestruction the States might exert greater pressure on the Commonwealth for financial assistance for works which might be constructed on their behalf by the Corporation. There is not a lot more that one can add to that. That is a fairly accurate statement of the situation. The amendment would, in effect, duplicate an existing position without, in my view, adding anything of benefit. 
Question put: 
That the words proposedto be left out  (Senator Willesee'samendment)  be left out. 
Prior to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last night I had moved amendment No. 3 of the amendments circulated on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment was to the effect that sub-clauses (3.), (4.) and (5.) of clause  17 be deleted. I had intended to take amendment Nos 3 and 4 together. Therefore, with the concurrence of honourable senators. 1 move: 
In sub-clause (6.) leave out all words after State'.  1 think 1 should comment briefly on the amendments I have proposed. As 1 pointed out in my contribution to the second reading debate, the Australian Labor Party feels that shackles are being placed on the proposed Corporation. If honourable senators examine the amendments which have been circulated on behalf of the Opposition they will see that the Opposition is attempting to remove these shackles. Amendment No. 3 relates to deleting sub-clauses (3.), (4.) and (5.) of clause 17. Sub-clause (3.) limits the functions and powers of the Corporation's functions aud powers should not be restricted. Sub-clause (4.) limits the amount of work which the Corporation will be able to do. The Corporal on will be restricted to such work as the measurement of the flow of water and the generation, transmission or supply of electricity, lt is appreciated that work of this nature was probably the main reason for the existence of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. Nevertheless the Opposition does not believe that the proposed Corporation should be denied the right to operate in a wider field. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  referred to the fact that the Government had in the other place conceded additional functions to the proposed authority in relation to sub-clause (5.). This obviously means that we of the Labor Party are not the only ones thinking about the restrictions which are being placed on the Corporation. The Government proposes to allow the Corporation to carry out laboratory work. The Labor Party welcomes this additional function but still does not think that the Corporation's functions go far enough. Obviously if something of a minor nature has to be done, such as making some sort of analysis in a laboratory, it would not be very wise to call tenders from sub-contractors. As I said last night, there is minor work of this nature throughout the whole construction field. Although there will be some sub-contracting work, there should be minor jobs which the 
Corporation would be able to do itself. Of course, the Corporation will be restricted in its activities because this provision lays down that the Corporation must seek the approval of a consulting engineer. The Opposition is of the opinion that this entails an unnecessary expense. It believes that the Corporation's own engineers would be adequately informed, educated and experienced to do this sort of work. I do not want to go over the things which I said last night during the debate on the second reading of the Bill. I commend the amendments to honourable senators. 1'he TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Is it the wish of the Committee that amendment Nos 3 and 4 be taken together? There be ng no objection, such a course will be adopted. 
-I move: 
Leave out 'with the approval of the Public Service Board'. 
The necessity to obtain the approval of the Public Service Board is another of the shackles that we so often talk about. Skilled engineers are in short supply in Australia. If the Corporation is able to offer them only terms and conditions of employment as approved by the Public Service Board there may be difficulty in obtaining sufficient staff of this kind. There may be a quick movement in wages, and the Public Service Board, which is bound by decisions of the Public Service Arbitrator, could find itself unable to attract the required staff. The Corporation would be at a disadvantage compared with private companies. Private companies would be able to reach agreement on terms and conditions of employment at short notice. The Corporation would not be able to do this. It would be restricted by the necessity to refer terms and conditions of employment to the Public Service Board for approval. 
In a situation where more and more over-award payments are becoming the order of the day the Public Service Board is inhibited. To give the Board its due, it does attempt in some cases to make overaward payments but as soon as it does so there is a further upward movement in wages in outside employment, leaving the Board at a disadvantage. If the amendment is agreed to the Minister will still be able to seek advice from the Board, from employer organisations, from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if necessary, or from any other authority. Acceptance of the amendment would not mean the payment under the lap, without authority, of fantastic salaries. 
The Minister has an overriding role in the affairs of the Corporation. The terms and conditions of employment are determined by the Corporation but with the approval of the Board. We do not envisage the Corporation having a free hand. These arguments are well known in other fields. We know that the Public Service Board is at a disadvantage in the matter of exempt officers. We know that this disadvantage is magnified in the engineering field. These arguments have been advanced in relation to other legislation. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 

 Senator COTTON (New South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) ill.44 - We should remember that the Corporation is a statutory body, lt is in effect an arm of government, lt is owned by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Australian people. Clause 21 gives the Corporation power to engage staff on any base determined by the Corporation but subject to the general oversight and approval of the Public Service Board. This provision is already in the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Act. lt has worked well for a period of 20 years and we would hope to retain it. We think it wise to retain it. The provision has not been unduly restrictive on the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. Instead it has kept the Authority's salaries from getting too far out of line wilh salaries paid in comparable organisations in the Commonwealth and in the Slates. Without such a provision there is the problem that the Corporation as such could be open to accusations by State authorities and departments, and perhaps by other people, of pirating staff from them. With those observations I express the view that the Government is unable to accept the Opposition's proposal. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria) lj 1.46] - I want to say something on this very briefly. The points which have been raised by  Senator Willesee  are undoubtedly substantial points. Thai does not mean that I support the proposed amendment because I fail to see why, in a particular area, we should make an exception when there are other areas to which the same principles apply and in which I think they would apply with greater force. We have said in the Senate - I have heard it generally expressed - that, for example, people in the Parliamentary Draftsman's office are inhibited in a way in which I think they should not be inhibited. They are. paid salaries which are fixed by the Public Service Board, not on a basis of what they are really worth or what they might possibly be able to obtain, having regard to their qualifications, if they gained employment outside the government service. Their salaries are fixed on a basis that there must be some broad comparison between various qualified people within the Public Service. 
This creates many problems. As 1 have said, it applies in the drafting service. I think it applies also in the Patent Office. The professional engineers have had this problem around their necks for many years, and 1 think it is because they are tied in an unnecessary way to the machinations of the Public Service Board. After all, the Public Service Board is an employer of over a quarter of a million people, and when that situation exists it is impossible to gel the kind of relationships between employer and employee which I think are desirable. Accordingly when we create a corporation such as we are creating here and .seek to bring the employees under the aegis of the Public Service Board, I think we are creating further problems. 
I recognise that the people wilh whom we are dealing here are noi under the Public Service Board in the sense that Commonwealth employees directly are but, as the clause indicates, they arc to be employed by the Corporation with the approval of the Public Service Board. Experience indicates that in those circumstances the Public Service Board has virtually as great a control and direction over them as it has over people who are directly under it. I, for my part, think that the general matter  Senator Willesee  has raised has to be considered by the Government and action taken on it, but I feel that to start dealing with this piecemeal - certainly during this week on (his Bill in these circumstances - is not the way to start. This is something which has to be considered but 1 believe that it is better considered in a context in which people other than those involved in the Corporation are concerned. 

 Senator MCCLELLAND (New South Wales) fi 1.48]- I will be very brief because of the time factor. The Minister has said that a provision of this nature is already in the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Act. I point out to him that the functions of this Corporation are to be completely different in nature and in operation from those of the present Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Corporation which is being set tip tinder this legislation will be expected to operate as a viable, self supporting, profit making concern just as any ordinary consultant operates. Indeed the Corporation is bound to charge ordinary consultant fees. In addition other restrictions have been imposed upon the Corporation. They have been brought out in the second reading debate and in Committee by  Senator Willesee. 
Here we could well have the ludicrous situation of a government instrumentality such as the Corporation trying to compete with private industry and trying to carry out the functions laid down in the terms of the legislation while having no control over the salaries and conditions of its officers and employees because everything that it does in the way of making an offer to a prospective employee, or in the hope of retaining an existing employee, is subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. I can see great difficulties ahead for the Corporation if it is to be bound in the manner set out in the legislation. 
-I want to make one comment arising mainly out of what  Senator Greenwood  has said. If one looks at the relevant provisions in the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Act and in the Bill before us one sees that that in the Bill before us is more restrictive than is that in the Act. Clause 21 of the Bill provides: 
The terms and conditions of employment of officers and employees are such as are determined by the Corporation with the aproval of the Public Service Board. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act provides: 
(1.) The Authority may appoint such officers as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) The selection of persons for appointment as officers under this section shall be made in accordance with such requirements as the Public Service Board determines. . . . 
It may be that the Draftsman sees no difference in them - I do not know - but it seems to me that the provision in the Bill is tougher than that in the Act. I do not want to start an argument on this because we could be here all night determining it. In practice it may have worked out in the same way, but it seems to me that the wording in relation to the Corporation is much tougher and much more restrictive than is the wording of the provision in the Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Who prepared the specifications for Australia's proposed nuclear power station. 
If it was not the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Why is the export of live birds from Australia prohibited. 
by leave -  Senator Byrne  interjected while the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was speaking about the notice paper. I would remind  Senator Byrne  that this action is taken from time to time. I think the Leader of the Government will follow the general procedure and confer with party leaders who in turn will confer with members of their parties. If any honourable senator desires to move any of the notices on the notice paper, there will be no problem. 
We can look into this matter between now and 11 a.m. tomorrow. As for the remainder of what the Leader of the Government said, we will have to see what happens tomorrow. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many times has the National Consultative Committee on Atomic Energy, the appointment of which was announced by the Prime Minister on 12 June, 1969, met. 
Is there any machinery which allows the Parliament to be informed of the discussions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Was a Canadian Senate Committee set up to investigate the Candu System, to report in March of this year. 
Has any report yet been published; if so, what, in summary, are its findings, and have they been considered by the Australian Government or the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What investigations have been made of the suitability of Australian uranium ores as sources for fuel elements in nuclear power station reactors. 
Have studies been made to determine whether the use of Australian uranium will cause technical problems in the treatment of fuel elements after use. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission foreshadowed the building of five further power stations after that proposed to be built at Jervis Bay: if so, will these be of the same designas that chosen for Jervis Bay. 
Will the establishment of such reactors depend solely on their economic viability as power stations; if not, what other factors will be considered. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What countries have constructed power stations fuelled by natural uranium. 
Have any of these countries subsequently decided not to build further such stations; if so, which countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is zirconium used in the construction of nuclear reactors. 
What is the present rate of production of zirconium in Australia. 
How much of the present production is exported, and what is the average price obtained. 
Does the Government restrict in any way the export of zirconium. 
Is the Government stockpiling zirconium, or has it done so in the past. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many research scientists, experimental officers and technicians now comprise the Physical Metallurgy Group in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the total number ofestablished positions in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment during each of the past 7 years in each of the following categories: 
Research Scientist: 
Scientific Officer; 
Experimental Officer, and 
Scientific Services Officer. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission had a twenty-two man team investigating the SGHWR, if so, where did they carry out their investigations. 
Has a report from the team been presented; if so, will the Minister have the report tabled in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What facilities are now available in Australia for training in nuclear engineering. 
How many persons have received such training and to what levels. 
How many of these persons are now resident in Australia. 
Senataor COTTON- The Acting Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A formal post-graduate degree course in Nuclear Engineering is operating at the School of Nuclear Engineering at the University of New South Wales. In addition a course is offered by the University of Melbourne. Also the Australian School of Nuclear Technology at the Atomic Energy Commission's Research Establishment at Lucas Heights offers an advanced post-graduate course in Nuclear Technology which covers phases of the design, engineering and operation of nuclear reactors. 
At the University of New South Wales 52 students have undertaken the course and 32 have passed. At the Australian School of Nuclear Techology 64 students have undertaken the course and all have passed. To date no courses have yet been undertaken at the University of Melbourne. 
Of these numbers 35, including 11 from New Zealand, came from overseas to attend the courses, returning home at their conclusion. It is not known how many of the other graduates have moved overseas either permanently or temporarily since completing their courses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment undertaken any research programmes on ceramics since 1960; if so were the programmes major research projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Does the Government consider that uniformity in the type of reactor to be used for power generation in Australia is desirable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, in addressing a Liberal Speakers' Conference in June 1969 state that Australia would spend$5,000m on nuclear power stations by the year 2000; if so, on what basis was the estimate of power needs made, and how was it costed. 
Does the statement represent Government policy or is it simply a prediction of possible developments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many electron microscopes does the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research 
Establishment now possess and how much use did each receive during the past 6 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Atomic Energy Commission send a six-man team to investugate the CANDU reactor; if so, has a report been presented. 
If a report has been presented, will the Minister have a copy tabled in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have  any  studies  been made  of the likely extent of thermal and radioactive pollution in relation to different types of  reactor  which might be used in  the  Jervis Bay  power  station; if  so,  have  any  conclusions  been reached,  and would the Minister  have  them conveyed to  the  Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is there any graduate course in nuclear engineering at any Australian university; if not, does the Government intend to introduce or encourage the introduction of such a course. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Did the Government consider the possibility of building Australia's first nuclear power station as a combined power/ desalination plant, located on the coast of a dry area, where both power and fresh water are in demand: if so, why was such a possibility rejected. 
 The most important document that a government places before a parliament in any one year is the Budget. The basic function of a budget is to redistribute income.  Senator Davidson  tonight prefaced a lot of his remarks by saying: 'This may be of interest to the Senate'. But the one thing he did not deal with - and I am prepared to prohesy that no other member on the Government side will deal with it in this debate - is the basic reason for ali budgets, that is, to redistribute income. Neither  Senator Davidson  nor anyone else on the Government side would defend a budget which increased taxation for people with an annual income below $4,500 and, less importantly, for those few people at the top of the taxation scale.  Senator Davidson  did not say anything of interest about the gravamen of this Budget. All budgets redistribute income. This one will distribute it on a most vicious scale dispite what the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised. I prophesy again that no-one on the Government side will deal with the redistribution of income as it will be affected by the Budget for 1970-71. 
All budgets are preceded by a lot of rumours. Some of them are leaks to the Press; some are guesses by the Press. There is always a lot of speculation during the 6 months before a budget is introduced. I submit to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that what should be exercising the minds of senators in their consideration of this Budget is, firstly, the credit squeeze, with which  Senator Murphy  dealt, and which was brought about by a vicious increase in interest rates. The Prime Minister a year or two ago thrilled the whole of Australia by saying that he was in favour of doing something for the underprivileged. At least 98% of the underprivileged in Australia today fall into one of 3 categories - pensioners, people with very large families and Aboriginals. 
The Government promised at the last election that it would reduce the burden of income tax on the middle and lower income groups. 1 have said many times in this place that the Australian public should never start to put pressures on this Government at election time, because when the Government makes election promises in the heat and the atmosphere of an election they invariably have tragic results. The decision to purchase the Fill aircraft was not a defence proposal but an election gimmick. At the last ejection the Government wanted something new so it made a promise to reduce taxation on what it euphemistically called the middle and lower income groups. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  pointed out a budget is not the only thing that affects the economy. It gives expression to the fiscal policy that is laid down by the Government, but monetary policy also has its effect on the economy. This is evidenced by the increasing interest rates during the last 12 months. When the Government was asked to comment on this increase the Prime Minister said: 'This is not actually increasing the indebtedness of people; it just makes the time for them to have to pay it back longer'. To me that is the equivalent of a judge saying to someone who is in gaol: 'I am going to double your gaol sentence. It will not make any difference. You will not have to work any harder in gaol. You will' just be there a little longer.' If the period for repayment is lengthened enough the person making the repayments may die and his debt will fall on his widow and children. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annbelle Rankin)  dealt with the increase in interest rates in a different way. She said: 'What is SI a week? Anyone can afford that.' I wish she would go into the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and say that occasionally. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech dealt with fiscal and monetary policy. As  Senator Davidson  mentioned, the Treasurer pointed out it is not only what is brought down in this Budget that will affect the economy over the next 12 months. Monetary policies will also have an effect on the economy. There seems to be no good reason for basing budgets solely on the financial year. The 30th June seems to be a magical day in the lives of Australians. I do not think it is different to any other day. The sun comes up in the morning and sets again that night. The financial year is only an accounting period and we do not have to be wedded to that accounting period. Fiscal policy and monetary policy may, over a period of 12 months, come into conflict with each other. I suggest that it is time we had a look at the way we draw up our budgets. I will deal with the question of taxation a little later. There is no reason why a Budget should cover a period of 12 months. The Government may propose something now and the Budget may have the reverse effect, and unless the Government does some fine tuning of the monetary policy over the 12 months these things will come into conflict. We have a phenomenon in Australian finance in that in the third term of the year we get an amount of liquidity and spending in the community which does not reflect conditions in the rest of the year. It is at about this time that the Government starts to look at its Budget proposals. Seeing that we are looking at parliamentary reform in many other ways, I suggest that it is time the Government ceased to make certain statements when presenting its Budget, to sweep the problems under the mat and then be forced into adopting some form of monetary policy such as a credit squeeze or an increase in interest rates, and instead did something positive. This should be quite possible in these days of computers. 
The taxation problem is the gravamen of the present situation. I repeat that the Government will not deal with it, simply because it cannot. The taxation proposals are vicious and unfair and are a reversal of what the Prime Minister promised. His promise first saw the light of day in his policy speech in an election atmosphere. It was mentioned again in the Speech of the Governor-General, who said the matter would be dealt with in the Budget. But it then became pretty obvious that the Prime Minister was going to hedge. He said: Look, we have said we are going to improve taxation for the middle and lower income groups but we will do so when it is possible.' Then tremendous pressure began to be exerted on the Government, because the Australian people are just about sick of Prime Ministers going before them, making promises and then hedging on them. This pressure came from various parts of the community. It came from the Australian Council of Trade Unions. On 2nd July the ACTU dealt with the Prime Ministers backing out. from his promise. If anybody, even those people who are so busy yelling at the ACTU wants to read a very well prepared economic document he should read the ACTU's paper. 
It is of no good for the Prime Minister or anybody else to say that he did not know what the effects might be when the Budget was introduced, because it was very clearly documented by the ACTU. Why should the ACTU nol do this? It is the body which represents those people in the community who have nothing but their labour to sell, those people who are on the lower rung of the taxation ladder. What the Government has done on this occasion has been to knock any future awards that might be given for people on the lower income range, lt has knocked any benefit out of their hands before they get it. The white collar unions also put advertisements in the Press and brought out some very good documentation. 
I am wondering whether this did not bring about a perverse reaction from the Government, because it obviously adopts the attitude that these people ought not have these views. It feels that they are the slaves in the community. It feels that it is not here to govern for the ordinary common man and it is cheek on the part of the unions to come forward and put documents before the Government. T say this because the Government has done exactly the reverse of what these documents say ought to be done. It has reversed what ought to be the principle of Budgets and of all taxation policy, that is, that the burden of income tax should fall on the broadest shoulders and not on the weakest backs. There seems to have been a perversity on the part of the Government. It seems to have said: 'We will show them. We will show these little puppies that they are not going to suggest to the Government how things ought to be done.' 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  himself has pointed out 2 things. The first is that by not amending the taxation laws for 15 years the people in the lower income bracket have been disadvantaged more than any other section of the community. He points out that overall the proportion of incomes that is being paid in taxation has moved from 20% to 29%. Although the Government talked about lowering taxation for the middle and lower income bracket it has reversed the position. Anybody who receives less than about $4,500 a year will not be better off as a result of this Budget but immeasurably worse off. One does not measure the position by indirect taxation but by direct, taxation. These people have received a mere pittance. The people in receipt of $4,500 a year and upwards have had some real benefit. In other words, to those who have has been given and to those who have not has been taken away. 
This action has been referred to by certain people as sleight of hand. 1 am not giving honourable senators any new term when I say that, but I would add that it has been done with a cynicism which 1 have not previously seen in the 20 years I have been in this place and I have seen some pretty cynical things done to the working class people by this Government. But the Government has thrown that phrase completely away; it has been a catch cry. What has amazed me is that so few of the Press have picked the result of the Governments taxation proposals. This is not a decrease in taxation on the middle and lower income groups; it is a decrease on the upper middle and upper income groups. If one looks at the figures - I will quote them in a moment or two - one sees that very few people will be affected by this reduction. The family man has not even been considered. The Government has not even looked at the position of people who have 4 or 5 children. If it had it would have looked at child endowment. 
The Government has not looked at the curve of taxation as it affects these people. There has been no mention at all of  a  family man who would be paying no taxation. It is possible for a person on a low wage who has had some unemployment during the year to be in the position of not having to pay tax. HU family still has to eai and be clothed. The only thing the 
Government has done for these people has been to reduce their standard of living through the indirect taxation it has levelled against them. 
I do not want to say a lot about pensioners but a little later I do want to quote something that was said by an independent authority rather than get my blood pressure up now by talking about this miserable increase of 50c in pensions. For the present I shall quote some figures relating to the lower and middle income racket - I was going to say 'bracket' - supplied by  Mr Brown  of the Australian National University. He is a reader in statistics there. I do not know what his politics are. If I had quoted something from the ACTU, a union journal or a Labor Party journal it would have been said that 1 was being biased; so I have deliberately stepped outside. I do not want to confuse anyone with a lot of figures so 1 will only quote one.  Mr Brown  estimates that there is 1 person in 80 who has a taxable income of over $10,000 a year. Rather than fix a mythical income, he talks of a middle income of $2,600 a year and an average income of $3,000 a year. When the Government talks about taxable incomes it makes it very easy for the smart operator to get his taxable income down into a bracket where he will receive some benefit. Surely everybody is aware of the tax dodging and tax scrabbling that goes on in Australia today. 
As I said earlier, it has been estimated that anyone receiving less than $4,500 a year - this is a bit above the $3,000 which is taken as the average income - will receive no benefit. Only when we go above that figure do we come to the people who will receive any benefit. Anybody receiving less than that will be very badly inconvenienced. If we take an income of $3,000 a year, which is approximately $60 a week, we find that a single person will be 90c a week better off. A married man with 4 children will be 40c a week better off. I sincerely hope that they are very pure people who do not do such sinful things as smoke, because if both husband and wife smoke 1 packet of cigarettes a day that will cost them another 42c a week. So that family will start 2c a week behind the 8-ball. Of course. If they do that they would not be driving a car. If they were sinful enough, to do that, they would be affected by this indirect taxation. 
They will be affected if she uses cosmetics and all those other things on which the extra  2i%  tax is to be charged. Even if she does not use cosmetics, nearly every commodity that that family uses will be transported in a vehicle that uses petrol. It is a cynical Budget. The Government has deliberately set out to help its supporters, the wealthy people in the community. It has not had a look at the taxation of lower income as it promised.  Senator Davidson  made great play of the fact that  Mr Bury  had said that this was only the beginning; it was only the first instalment from Father Christmas. From now on he was going to look at the position month by month. Fifteen years is the hiatus we are trying to overcome. Over the last 10 years, taxation has risen from 20% to 29%. If the Government is going to stick to yearly budgets how will it redistribute the income if it does not look at the position every 12 months? It has been the policy of this Government that when one section squeals loudly enough it fixes that section and then forgets about it until the squeals become loud enough again. This is not proper governing. It is governing at the instance of pressure groups, something which no Australian government ought to be doing. Unless the Government reviews the position every year to see where it is hitting hardest people on the lower incomes will be disadvantaged more and more. People on what might be termed middle incomes receive little benefit but unless there is constant readjustment as inflation takes wages higher and as taxation moves from 29% to 35% more will be taken away in taxation. 
Working people are finding that they have to work just so much extra every year for the Department of Taxation. The genius of the Liberal Party - if one looks back over nearly 21 years of this - is that it can go out on the election platform and talk about great prosperity and the affluent society in which we live, but it can also intervene in the national wage case every year and keep wages down to a shameful level. If this is a great affluent society as the Government says the minimum wage rate today should be a great deal higher than it is. Just sit back and try to analyse the minimum wage of $43. Let honourable senators opposite compare it with I day's expenses of their own families if they are game, and then say that this is a great affluent society. Intervention in arbitration cases has reacted against the small wage earners every time. Some fantastically interesting figures are available but they are not suited for a debate such as this. Consider people who receive less than the average weekly earnings, and there are many of them. Matching their rise against the rise in taxation and cost of living one finds they are about 1% better off over a period of approximately 15 years. One cannot take the figures which  Senator Davidson  cited tonight to show, the increase in wage rates and leave it at that. Figures cannot be juggled around in that fashion. 
Small wage earners have been kept pegged down by deliberate Government policy on wages and direct and indirect taxation policy over a long period, lt is a shame on this community that a Budget like this should be brought down. Built into the whole taxation schedule is regression. Until something is done about this taxes are being dishonestly raised in the community. Surely it is unarguable that higher taxes should be taken from those with the broadest shoulders and the financial sinew to bear them. Let us consider a person on the highest rate of taxation and one on the minimum wage and what the Government gives back to them in respect of their wives. To the wealthiest man in the community, the man who is earning so much that he has to pay the maximum rate, the Government, says: 'We will remit to you $213 because you have the responsibility of looking after a wife'. To the man on the minimum wage of $43 a week it says: 'We wiM remit to you $65 because you have the responsibility of supporting a wife'. This applies through the whole taxation schedule. The Senate dealt with this principle when discussing the question of payments for health insurance. Take the example of 2 people living beside one another who pay $100 a year to their medical benefit society to protect their families. If one person is paying 50c tax in the $1 the Government says: 'At the end of the year we will remit to you half of what you pay so that protection for the health of your family will cost you S50 this year'. 
To the man next door who is a low wage earner and is paying only 10c tax in the $1 it says: 'We will give you back SIO, so you have to pay $90'. We charge the poor man in the community nearly double the charge on the wealthy man who is best able to afford it. How the Government has been able to get away with this over the years without an outcry completely beats me. 
Indirect taxation has been taken a step further. This is only another step in the long, vicious line of indirect taxation. Over a period of years because this Government has been starving the States of funds it has pushed them into a situation where they have had to press every tax at their disposal such as land rates, water rates, bus fares and amusement taxes. Also because the Government has been starving the States of funds, they in turn have had to press local government, which has had to press the same taxpayers. Whether the taxpayer is voting for a council or for the Senate or House of Representatives he is still the same body. The Government has pressed him down under this vicious, flat rate of indirect taxation. There is no defending indirect taxation because it may be doubled over the course of a few years. The Government does not ask a person what sort of an income he has. lt taxes the millionaire on his piece of land the same as it taxes the widow down the street on her piece of land. This is a deliberate system which the Government has been pushing along the line, lt is just another twist of the screw. 
I have referred to cigarettes. I do not smoke cigarettes but people have told me that, one pack a day would not be a lot. For a start, this increase would put a person receiving $60 a week 2c behind for himself and his wife. The impact of the increased petrol tax is not only a direct one. Probably there will be an increase in petrol price because the industry is clamouring for it. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out the other day the rise may be not 3c but 6c. Everything one buys has to be transported by somebody using a petrol driven vehicle. The Government is applying indirect taxation by the increase in telephone rentals, lt did not say: 'We will increase the cost of calls.' lt said: 'We will increase in rent'. Business people make the most calls. Most people in the community do not need a telephone for business purposes but have it installed because they have elderly mothers or married children living in another suburb or another town. The calls they make are very few indeed. If honourable senators look at their neighbour's telephone bill - we probably use the phone more than the normal person in the community - they will find that the big slug is the rental and not the cost of calls. If the Government increased the cost of calls it would be taxing people at the point at which they spend. It is not doing that. It has increased the rental on telephones by S7 whether people are using them or not. 
The Government has gone on with this iniquity of the telephone transfer fee. I disagreed with this charge when it was introduced many years ago. I can understand a new customer having to pay a joining fee, but the Government says to people who have had a telephone for the whole of their lives but who. when their family grows up, move into a smaller house: 'We are going to charge you ยง40 to transfer that phone down the line.' The Government talks about the efficiency of private industry. If it calls that a sound business principle it is just completely beyond me. 
Honourable senators may have noticed recently that  Mr Justice  Nimmo, who did a very important job for the Government recently, said he was shocked and appalled because he had come to the opinion that there were 1 million people on the poverty line in Australia today. This figure has been supported by other people. The effect of this Budget will be to drive more people under the poverty line and, from the time that the Budget starts to take effect, more than 1 million people will be below the poverty line because the Government has driven them below it. By its Budget the Government could have cured the situation. It could have brought out a Budget in which it said that it would not reduce taxation for anybody else but would increase social services. Overnight it would have lifted nearly 1 million people above the poverty line. Instead of dealing generally with social services, let me quote from a letter to the Press by Professor Downing of the University of Melbourne. This letter was written before the Budget was brought down. It states: 
The poor of Australia who are, in the main, simply the aged, invalid and widowed pensioners, the sick and the large families will indeed be in a sad plight if the Budget provisions for pensioners are as anticipated in your report. 
The minimum programme needed to relieve only stark poverty is now clear from the finding of the Melbourne poverty survey. Single-rate pensioners need an extra S2 a week, married couple pensioners need an extra St. SO. Unemployment and sick benefits should be raised to the same level as pensions. 
The supplementary (rent) allowance should be raised to $4 and extended to married couples as well as single pensioners. Child endowment should bc increased to $3.50 a week for the third child and $4.50 a week for a fourth and subsequent children, and tax deductions for dependent children should be dropped. 
The cost of these proposals is a mere SI 00m. This expenditure would raise the proportion of gross national product going into social service benefits from its 5.3% in 1968-69 to 5.7%. At the beginning of this decade we were spending 5.9% and not labouring under the burden. 
Australia is one of the 4 or 5 richest countries in the world. It is shameful that we are not willing to spend the little extra needed to lift our few poor people up to minimum subsistence standards. 
I say no more because in this letter Professor Downing says the lot.  Senator Davidson  was asking who is replying to this Budget. He said that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate was being negative and nobody was replying to it. But we are giving everybody a chance to reply. The Australian Labor Party has taken the unprecedented step of asking this Parliament to reject the Budget completely and to go to those people about whom  Senator Davidson  is worrying and to let them reply. This is the challenge that we throw down. In this place, above all, we have a motley group of people. We have an Independent. Let us see how independent he is. We have a Democratic Labor Party. Let us see how democratic its members are. We have dissidents on the Liberal side of the chamber. They are well known to everybody and from time to time vote against the Government on minor matters. Let these senators come forward now on a major issue and say what they believe in their hearts - that they are supporting a Government that has no right to govern, a Government which time and again, day after day, is proving its arrogance and cynicism towards the ordinary person in the community. Let those honourable senators come forward and give  Senator Davidson  his answer to see who shall reply to the Budget. 
We challenge this Government. We have challenged it through  Mr Whitlam,  our leader, and we shall challenge it with every person who sits on this side of the Senate or on the Opposition side of the House of Representatives. If honourable senators believe that the Budget expresses the right fiscal policy, if they believe that the Government can cynically break the promise made in the Prime Minister's policy speech and the Governor-General's Speech by not reducing taxation on the lower incomes but increasing it - the reverse of what was promised - and if they believe that the Government can get away with this, their answer is very clear. If honourable senators opposite are democrats they will accept our challenge, grasp the nettle and go to the Australian people whom they are supposed to represent and whom we are supposed to represent. Let the people give the reply. I look forward to their decision with a great deal of confidence. 
 The Opposition supports the amendment The history of this matter began on 9th June last in the House of Representatives when the defence forces retirement benefits legislation was before that chamber. At that time the Australian Labor Party moved an amendment which was rejected by the Government but which contained many points which found favour with the Government. The Government gave an undertaking at that time that it would look into the possibility of setting up a joint committee and this has been done. There have been conversations and finally this proposal has been introduced. We attempted in another place to enlarge the scope of the committee's examination. That proposal was ruled out of order because of the peculiar forms under which that House operates. Since then the proposal has been transmitted to this place in its original form. We support that proposal which provides broadly for representation by the Senate. 
The original proposal for the establishment of the committee provided for 5 members of the House of Representatives and 3 senators.  Senator Murphy  has moved to enlarge the number of senators.  His  amendment does not seek to make the number disproportionate but rather to enlarge the number by 1 senator from the Government side and 1 senator from the Labor Party side.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson mentioned that this does not find favour with him. I suggest that there is no basic difference about the overall proposal. I do not think there is anybody in Australia who would not want to see, after all these years, the defence forces retirements benefits legislation have a thorough going over with unbiased people trying to help this section of our community. Therefore, I do not see any point in proceeding with this. We have moved the amendment and I suggest that the matter should now go to a vote. 
by leave  -  I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  for forecasting that a motion will be moved later this week. I direct the attention of all honourable- senators to the document to which he has referred because we will want advice on the proposal. From the quick look that I have had at the document it appears that those pages from page 11 onwards which relate to times are the operative pages. While the Minister was speaking I was wondering whether this should not contain some reference to Hansard, but on second thoughts I realise that towards the end of the week, after we have obtained the consensus of the Senate, will be the ideal time to deal with that aspect. I rose merely to emphasise that all honourable senators should give their attention to this matter between now and the end of this week. 
 Over many years I have been trying to get some change in the Standing Orders and in the Parliament. I have been trying for 15 years to start a trickle of thought on the Standing Orders and tonight I am confronted with a flood. I think  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson timed badly the introduction of these proposals. lt would appear that in his enthusiasm he has forgotten the experience he has gained in this chamber. 
I give  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson full marks for putting himself forward as the guinea pig. However, I think his timing could have been better. After 70 years the Senate is starting to do something about the manner in which business is handled. When I first became a member of this chamber I was young and very green. I used to suggest measures of reform. In those days the old timers would look at me and say: 'If you do away with democracy you get a dictatorship'. When I would reply: 'Surely we can improve on our parliamentary system of democracy?' they would look at me in awc and then walk away. I never received an answer. Certain changes have been made in the procedure of this chamber since then. For example, the other day the Senate decided to do something about the number of days it would sit each week. The smart thing to do would have been to allow this proposal now before us to edge its way in slowly. As some of the present procedure dates back 70 years surely we could have waited another 12 months or so. If this had happened honourable senators would have been better able to appreciate the position, I am in favour of forwarding the 3 proposals of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration. 
Over a long period of time I have suggested that there should be a reconsideration of all of the Standing Orders. So far I have not been able to get anybody to agree with me. You will remember,  Sir, that  a few years ago you invited honourable senators to forward to the Standing Orders Committee suggestions concerning amendments to the Standing Orders. Only one honourable senator forwarded any suggestions and that was me. I think I made about 30 or 40 suggestions and the Committee accepted 3 or 4 of them. However, it was some progress. If I can find my file on these suggestions I will resubmit them to the Standing Orders Committee. I hope other honourable senators will also forward suggestions concerning amendments to the Standing Orders to this Committee. For example,  Sir, when  the  President  is elected it is mandatory that he stand on the top step of the dais. I do not know what would happen if he did not do so. I do not know whether the Presidency would be taken away from him. Small things like that are unnecessary in this day and age. 1 return to the question of trying to save time. I think  Senator Cavanagh  has a point. Here we have a situation where we could ask the Standing Orders Committee to revise the Standing Orders. We are going through a trial period in relation to our system of standing committees. I do not know whether something went awry along the line, but I think the proposals of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson should be considered by the Standing Orders Committee. The Senate is leaning over backwards to introduce a committee system but on this issue it is trying to bypass the Standing Orders Committee. I know it is not being bypassed deliberately. Obviously the members of the Standing Orders Committee would be better able to thrash out these proposals than we are. 
I agree with the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that the right to ask questions of the Government is very important to an Opposition. The manner in which these questions are asked varies tremendously throughout the world. The House of Commons in the United Kingdom does not adopt a system of placing questions without notice on the notice paper, but it has a very broad system in relation to the asking of questions on notice. I noticed that questions were written out on a sort of school pad. It has been said on occasions that the Lok Sabha in India allows members more freedom than we do in relation to questions. Now that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has acted as a guinea pig and brought these matters to our attention, 1 would hope that they will be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration on a very broad basis and not just on this question of saving time. Some great works have been written which would indicate that the Indian system of questioning Ministers is better than our own. Whether the situation in India or in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom is better than our own system is something which could bc looked at by the Standing Orders Committee. However, I think we have to be careful about any changes we make. Some years ago a book was written about the Parliament by a jouranlist named Warren Denning. As it was before the time of the broadcasting of proceedings it is considered to be a long way out of date by most people. But if honourable members were to read it they will get an understanding of what the Parliament is all about. I read it many years before I came to this Parliament. Voltaire said: 'I disagree with what you say, but I shall defend to the death your right to say it'. This is bound up tremendously in the proposals which we are discussing tonight. It is something which must be watched very carefully. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack has circulated some information which I have not had much time to consider. I do not know what he intends to say on this aspect, but it would appear to me that, irrespective of the proposal to change the Standing Orders in regard to such things as the length of speaking times, common sense has made some Standing Orders redundant. I think the timing of these proposals has been bad. I believe that the Standing Orders Committee should examine them. I am in favour of the idea you had a few years ago,  Mr President,  of requesting suggestions con cerning amendments to the Standing Orders. When the Standing Orders Committee has made its report on not only these proposals but on the general question of the Standing Orders - - 
Yes. I would also like to see the 3 proposals considered by the Standing Orders Committee. 1 would like to see you take an interest in this matter again,  Mr President.  Although you did not get a great response on the last occasion you asked for suggestions concerning the Standing Orders, I think the response may be different on this occasion. 
No. 1 do not want to inhibit  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in any way. I think we should take a vote on his first proposal. We will have a chance at a later stage to forward these matters to the Standing Orders Committee because we have to debate the other 2 proposals of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Can the Government obtain any predictions of the likely extent to which global atmospheric pollution by carbon dioxide could limit the feasibility of electricity generation by fossil fuels in the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the total cost of research in nuclear science at the Australian National University, fromits inception to the present date. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for the interior: Has the Minister for the Interior recently sought legal advice regarding the possibility of initiating police action against and the prosecution of members of the Gurindji tribe who are at present camped on the Wave Hill station in the Northern Territory? Was advice also sought regarding possible action against those Europeans who have visited Wave Hill to assist the Gurindjis or report on the situation? If such advice was sought, has a reply been received? [f so, what was the nature of the reply? 
After listening to  Senator Marriott  I think we ought to recapture what we are talking about. We are talking about the Bill which puts into effect the budgetary proposals to increase the pension by 50c a week. I do not see by any stretch of the imagination that we can be talking, as  Senator Marriott  did, of people living in happiness and living long lives in contentment on an increase, under the inflationary trend that we have been suffering, amounting to 50c a week.  Senator Fitzgerald,  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, has moved an amendment to add certain words at the end of the motion. The Australian Labor Party does not intend to oppose the Bill. We do not want to stop the 50c from going to the pensioners. We just feel embarrassed that we have to sit here and allow such a paltry amount to go to them. Consequently we had to move an amendment for the addition of the words that  Senator Fitzgerald  proposed:  but the Senate is  of  opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate; 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
Those points are pretty self-explanatory, except perhaps that point No. 3 could be underlined, lt reads:  steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. 
Surveys made in Australia, underlined only recently by  Mr Justice  Nimmo estimate that 1 million people are living on the poverty line. The result of this Budget, of course, will be that we drive more than those 1 million people underneath that poverty line. Those in the lower rate taxation schedules will find, if the proposals in this Budget get under way, that as a net result the few paltry cents that they have been given back will be more than eaten up by indirect taxes. I was rather amused to note that at the Liberal Party conference the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said it is a rather complex sort of economic argument to follow - that the Government had to do something about inflation; so it decreased taxation. Then he went on to explain that conundrum by saying: 'But we increased indirect taxation.' Every economic thesis in the world points out that indirect taxation is the inflationary type and inflation is controlled through direct taxation. But do not let me move away from the question of pensions, which is the point I am discussing. 

 Senator Gair has moved an amendment to be added to our amendment, because the forms of the House do not allow him to do anything but add to it.  His  amendment reads: 
At the end of proposed amendment add - (5) rates of pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal or committee of experts of social services including pensioner representation. 
I do not think I would have spoken on this Bill, but he gave me a royal mention in saying that when this proposal was first introduced by the late  Senator Cole,  then Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, back in 1960 I made criticism of it, because many comparisons have been made with an arbitration type system insofar as an arbitration system determines some part of the economy.  Senator Marriott  quite correctly pointed out that this, too. would be one of the determinants in the economy. 1 then criticised the Arbitration Commission as not being a free agent, as being influenced from outside.  Senator Gair  added: 'I wonder if he is of the same opinion today'. Firstly. I will read  Senator Cole's  amendment, because we hear a lot about this around election time, and these things get turned about a fair bit.I know that the accusation is always made: 'The Labor Party and the Liberal Party voted against an increase in pensions or automatic adjustment'. Of course, the DLP has never suggested automatic adjustment. What it has suggested is that some body outside of this Parliament -I would suggest similar to the Arbitration Commission - should determine pensions and either instruct or advise the Government. There has been some shifting of ground.  Senator Cole  moved this amendment back in 1 960: 
That immediately on the payment of the present increases provision should be made for the establishment of an independent tribunal similar to the Richardson Committee to ascertain and inform the Parliament of suitable amounts which should be made payable for the comfort and needs of the recipients of age, invalid and widows' pensions. 
I will quote fully what I said on that occasion. I said: 
As has already been pointed out, we are not dealing with chicken feed. We are dealing with benefits that involve the payment of about ยฃ300m a year. 
That was 10 years ago. I continued my remarks by saying: 
Every time a government increases pensions by Is a week, nearly ยฃ2m a year is added to the social service bill. So we are not dealing with something that can be paid easily. It must be taken into account in the budgetary calculations. 

 Senator McManus referred to the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission, and  Senator Cole,  interjecting, said, 'Answer that one!' As 1 said last night, my complaint with the Arbitration Commission today is that it is not an independent tribunal. If you look back over the years you will find that from lime to time political influence has been exerted on our arbitration tribunals. 1 can remember on one occasion in Western Australia when the C series index indicated that there should be a rise in the basic wage, the  president  of the State Arbitration Court, under the powers that he claimed he had, and which he undoubtedly did have, said that he would not increase the basic wage. But the Premier of the day instructed him to increase the wage. I complain bitterly about the way the Menzies Government is interfering, dominating and intimidating the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. Surely we would have a repetition of such domination if we set up another pseudo-economic body to deal with pensions. 
think the suggestion of an independent tribunal as an arbitration body for fixing pensions was brought into the debate because only a couple of nights before in the debate on the Estimates and Budget Papers, in which we can talk on anything,  Senator Wright  had been very trenchant about the suggestion. Because of his remarks I had entered the debate and dealt solely with the Arbitration Commission. In case  Senator Gair  should think that I am the only one who has criticisms of the Arbitration Commission I shall quote one or two things that  Senator Wright  said in those days. In the course of my remarks 1 said: 
The honourable senator, in referring to primary industry, said that it was- 
Then I quoted  Senator Wright's  remarks. He had said:   . . handicapped by a system of wage fixation that is unique in the world - irresponsible, unreliable, a system that has proved destructive of this continent's economy throughout the whole eleven years during which this Government has been in office. 
A little later he said: 
The first Budget that was introduced by this Government was submarined by a basic wage increase of ยฃ1 the following month . . . 
Then a little later he said: 
I believe it is the responsibility of those on this side of the chamber- 
That was the Government side of the chamber. He continued:  to look at the Australian wage fixing apparatus, which is unique in the world, and which is sacrificing this country by destroying the value of money. There is imposed on us a direct responsibility to overhaul the system before it destroys us and before it destroys the nation, which is more important. 
So I was not alone in making some criticisms of the Arbitration Commission in those days. Last night, after  Senator Gair  had mentioned my attitude to the Arbitration Commission, he said that he wondered whether f was of the same opinion today. Recently we have had some unique situations before the Arbitration Commission. One matter before the Commission has been known as the oil wage case, in respect of which much propaganda has been spread about it being an entirely new concept. This is not entirely true. 1 suppose that in the broad spectrum it could be claimed that it was a new concept. When the oil case was waiting to go before the Commission the Prime Minister - not in this Parliament but at a Chamber of Manufacturers of New South Wales annual dinner - announced the intervention of the Commonwealth Government in that case. The newspaper report of his remarks states: 

 Mr Gorton said there was a heavy responsibility on the Government and on the Commission to ensure that industry should not bc forced to pay in wages more than the value of industrial production. 
He said: 'We propose to intervene in the oil industry case. 
We propose to argue that it would be disastrous to Australia if the principles previously accepted were reversed,and if a company because it was profitable could be called on to pay more than industry geaerally was called on to pay because it was profitable.' 
A little further on the report states: 

 Mr Gorton said: 'The barometer of future progress stands at set fair subject to what I have to say. 
Great growth and great progress cun be made but that does not necessarily mean that it will be made.' 

 Mr Gorton said inflation was one of the major dangers to that growth. 
In Australia decisions of the Arbitration Commission had an enormous effect on the economy. 
The  chairman  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was also at that dinner. Yet the Prime Minister was making these definite and dogmatic statements about a case before one word of evidence had been put before the Commission, before any arguments had been adduced, and was saying that we must adhere to the status quo, whatever the arguments, whatever the value of those arguments and whatever evidence was put before the Commission. In effect the Prime Minister was saying: 'As Prime Minister 1 say that the concept of profitability is wrong and, in addition we are going to send our advocates to the Commission to argue against it.' If that is not applying pressure to what supposedly should be an independent commission, what is? 
If we look through the whole histoty of decision of the Arbitration Court, going back over donkey's years, we sec how they have been influenced by similar situations. So we come to the suggestion of the Democratic Labor Party, that we set up an independent tribunal to determine what payments should be made in the way of pensions.  Senator Marriott  touched on this aspect when he said that we had seen carried out a promise  -  I believe made recklessly during an election campaign- - by the Prime Minister to reduce taxation. No matter what the result of that promise has been and however doubtful its lineage might have been, I would like to have seen what would have happened to such a promise if the matter had been referred to a truly independent tribunal which had brought down the only decision that it could make in the circumstances. As I mentioned during the Budget debate, an independent body at the Melbourne University pointed out that the minimum rate which should have been paid to pensioners was $2 a week - not 50c a week - that child endowment should have been increased to $3.50 a week, and so on. 
Dealing with the question of pensions alone,  Senator Buttfield  defended the Government's action by saying that pensions were not the whole story, that there were other benefits established by the Government which flow to pensioners. She was very proud of these fringe benefits and she mentioned many of them, including supplementary assistance, the wife's allowance and guardian's allowances. As I see the situation, if an independent, tribunal did not have placed before it the whole gamut of things which affect pensions but gave consideration only to the amount of direct payment by way of pension, great difficulties would arise. I do not believe that a tribunal established to determine social service pensions would be able to act independently. I believe that pressures would be brought to bear on the tribunal. 1 do not suggest that the pressures would be necessarily dishonest; they could be honest pressures brought because of people's opinions, pressure of the economic climate in which they were brought to bear or individual pressures based on individual beliefs. This pressure in itself would be a tragedy. Over and above that I believe that pensions are a responsibility of Parliament. 
When we criticise the Government, as we have done so trenchantly on this occasion, that is not to say that pensions should be removed from the control of government. We say that the Government is not doing its job. We say that the Government has power to act but is not doing so. If we take away what ought to be, what is and what I hope shall continue to be the responsibility of government, that would be a backward step for the whole administration of Australia. 
As  Senator Murphy  pointed out on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, we do not support this proposal, for several reasons. First, the establishment of a tribunal would not affect the pension as it stands today. Presumably members of the DLP believe that it would affect the pension in the future. As I said in 1960 and repeated today, the question of social service payments to pensioners is too big a part of the budgetary consideration each year to be handed over to another authority. The Government has failed dismally on this occasion. I disagree with  Senator Marriott  when he says that we cannot accuse the Government of playing politics in this respect. I invite the honourable senator to see what sort of rise in pensions is given on the eve of the next Federal election for the House of Representatives and to compare it with the rise given in this Budget. But all the badness that is flowing from the Government, all its inadequacies and all the cynicism that it has shown towards social service payments does not alter the fact that this field is a responsibility of government. Because it has discharged this responsibility badly the responsibility is on its head and members of the Government will be judged accordingly. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
 In 21 years I have never seen such an amazing situation as that which arises today. Standing order 418 is completely clear, as also are the authoritative works that guide us in this place. It is always held that it adds to the dignity of this place to withdraw such imputations. On balance, senators have always had enough dignity and enough decency to do that. I have been listening to every word of this debate in my office, while preparing a speech on the post and telegraph legislation.  Senator Wright  not only has said things about  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, in complete violation of standing order 418 but also has repeated them and then has stood up, under the subterfuge of dealing with the motion of dissent which we 
On  this side have moved very reluctantly 
A giggling and laughing Minister of the Crown; an inane, giggling and laughing man. Goodness me, how you sit on the front bench amazes me. The only thing is the amazing change from the back bench to the front bench. 
Government senators yell and scream. They have been smearing all the week and they do not like to get it back. The smears in which they have engaged in this place over the last few days are a complete disgrace and they know it. 
 Senator Rae,  a young man who recently came into this place, shows complete inability to understand Parliament and resorts to the smear and the slur every time he stands to speak. He is doing it today. I have not been so disappointed in a young man in the years I have been a senator. Here again we see  Senator Wright  giggling and laughing. I just wonder. The fact is,  Mr President,  that  Senator Wright  has deliberately offended against this standing order. He has repeated the offence several times. Then, under the guise of protecting you,  Mr President,  in this motion of dissent, he has gone into the depths so common to him in order to malign again. And he says he worries about this place. He talks about the dignity and decorum of it. The fact is that if he had any respect for the Senate at all he would immediately have made it quite clear and would have withdrawn any imputations made against  Mr Whitlam.  But because of the political atmosphere at present, nothing is too strong to bend. The Standing Orders can go overboard, decency can go overboard and the smear and the slur can come to the top of the Liberal Party. 
The Senate at the moment is debating the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill the purpose of which is to amend regulations. I hope the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who in this chamber represents the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  will explain later why a Bill has to be introduced to amend the regulations. Some administrative changes are to be made- This all adds up to the swingeing increases which have been indicated in the Budget as part of the general indirect taxation scale which the Government has looked at. This is a rather inexplicable way of increasing postal charges.  Mr President,  to the motion That the Bill be now read a second time', I move: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
 I want the Senate to be clear on what the amendment means. If the Senate decides to carry the amendment it will mean that the Bill is defeated. The Senate expression of opinion regarding examination of the desirability of a public corporation being set up would be given effect, provided that the House of Representatives agreed. As I do not know whether the Bill will be completely rejected 1 cannot give the Senate any prior knowledge of the amendments which the Australian Labor Party may move- at the Committee stage. We will certainly be moving amendments but their nature will depend on what happens during the second reading debate. Honourable senators might ask why we are opposing the Bill and why we have moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading. We oppose the Bill for 2 reasons. Firstly we believe that the proposed increases are not necessary. They 'are haphazard and obviously have not been thought right through. The Government tends more than ever before to use the Post Office as a taxing machine and not an important business providing services for the Commonwealth. The second reason we oppose the Bill is, as we said at the time we opposed the Budget, that this also is a means of opposing the Budget. It would have been farcical in this place to vote against the motion to take note of the Budget Papers. We indicated that we opposed the Budget and we challenged the Government to have an election on Budget issues. 
Now we are taking that opposition a step further. The machinery legislation arising from the Budget is coming before the Senate and the Australian Labor Party is taking the first step by giving honourable senators an opportunity to live up to some of the criticisms which were made of the Budget and to throw out this taxing measure - although the Government does not describe the Bill in that way, that is what it amounts to - and to go to the people on it. Why did we move an amendment? The Post Office for 70 years has been under Commonwealth administration. Prior to that it was under State administration. At the time df federation the Post Office was taken over holus-bolus. The Australian Labor Party suggests that it is time to examine where the Post ' Office stands. A little later I will deal with the tremendous pressures under which it is working. Why in our amendment do we suggest that a public corporation be established to manage, the business of the Post Office? We are not firmly wedded to the form that such a statutory authority would take. We are not yet even wedded to a statutory authority. What we want the Government to do is to consider the matter. The Commonwealth Government and also the State governments have had quite a deal of experience of statutory authorities of various kinds. 
This Bill is tremendously important. Honourable senators may say that it merely seeks to amend some of the postal rates to provide a little more revenue for the Commonwealth Government and that it is a part of the system of giving direct taxation relief in the high income brackets and recovering that by way of indirect taxation. -Honourable senators must realise that we are dealing with one of the biggest businesses in Australia. Certainly it is the biggest service business in Australia. I do not think there is any doubt that it is the greatest employer of labour. The Post Office employs 107,164 people which works out at about 2 per cent of Australia's work force. Whenever one is dealing with the Post Office one is dealing with big business. It is. by far the biggest Commonwealth Government agency. This is why the Australian Labor Party is so concerned with the Post Office. Quite frankly I cannot follow the way in which the Government has arrived at its method of increasing charges. The Post Office has assets worth $2,173m. The larger part of that amount is on the telecommunications side. I think that about 90 per cent of the fixed assets are on the telecommunications side and the rest are on the postal side. The turnover is in the ratio of about one-quarter postal and threequarters telecommunications. 
I underline this to encourage some honourable senators not to close their minds at this stage to the question of an inquiry into the development of the Post Office but to look at one or two alternatives. The Government says that without these increases the loss in the coming year would amount to $llm. That figure is arrived at by allowing for a loss of $30m on postal operations and a telecommunications profit of $19m, the difference being a loss of Slim. The profit is high where there is technical equipment, that is, on the technological side. Where the labour component is high and there is less technical equipment, although not absent altogether, the loss occurs. The result of these increases will be not to reduce the already profitable side or to leave it as it is and do something about the loss. The result will be to make the profitable side, the telecommunications side and particularly the telephonic side - the telegraphic side is not a great profit earner - more profitable. There will be less loss on the postal side which is the losing side. On the telecommunications side the profit will rise from $ 19m to $39m, and on the postal side the loss will be reduced from $30m to $9m. 
I do not want to go into the question of interest at great length. It has been thrashed out here many times before and the Government is quite adamant on it. But in any assessment of Post Office profits it cannot be ignored. There is no doubt that there is a concealed profit in the interest, which will rise from $94im to $106im in the next year. We must appreciate that the money that is used in the Post Office is taken from the taxpayers, to whom the Government does not pay any interest, and the Government then puts into the Post Office as a business proposition and demands that the Post Office pay 6 per cent interest on it. 
Also, I was interested to learn the other day that the Department of Works charges the Post Office for services it carries out but does not charge other government departments. The amount involved in this regard in the coming year will be approximately $46m. I say 'approximately' because it is a little difficult to be certain as the Department of Works will charge for its services in respect of a contract, say, for the building of a post office- 
1 said approximately'. 1 would be pleased to hear the Minister in reply. Whatever the figure is. the Minister told me the other day that bis Department charges the Post Office and does not charge other departments. I have him on record on that. 
Yes. 1 worked out the figure at about $46m. 1 said 'approximately because some of the small works that are carried out by the Department of Works could be mixed up in that and 1 found it impossible to separate them from the others. In any case, that is another charge which has been loaded on to the back of the Postmaster-General's Department and which is not loaded on to the backs of the other departments. Because  Senator Wright  indicates that my figure in that regard is wrong. 1 will not take it into my calculations at this stage. So, we have all those charges before these increases are made. lt is difficult to say what the real profit of the Post Office is. Very few people realise the tremendous complexity or the tremendous size of the Post Office. 1 would not be surprised if the total figure was very, much higher than anything 1 indicate, even adding the interest charge. So, J ask the Minister why on the telephone side, which is already making a lot of money, the Government is increasing the charges. Incidentally, 1 notice that it is also increasing the charges to blind persons and pensioners. In justification of this in the second reading speech the Government gives only 3 lines. Surely the Parliament is entitled to something better than that. A section of this Department is running at a fairly good profit and the Government intends to increase that profit; but it gives only 3 lines of explanation in which it says something about things still costing the Department more to deliver than it is actually being paid. 1 have said 1hat these increases are haphazard. 1 have said that they are not thought through. I believe that to be correct. 1 believe that the reason for it is that the Government has the Post Office tied up in the overall procedure that it adopted in the Budget, namely, of increasing indirect taxation wherever it could and making refunds to people in some of the taxation ranges. 1 know that I will not be telling the Minister anything new, but I want to put into the record the situation of the printing industry and the trade unions on the question of bulk postage. I suggest that this is not a case of some business people coming along, complaining and saying: 'We do not want the rates to go up'. The people who came to see me about this matter said: 'We realise that if there are to be increases, there should be increases along the line'. 
I propose to quote some of the figures involved. I will not quote them all. I will ask for some to be incorporated in Hansard. If the references to categories A and B are not taken out of the Bill by the action we are taking, we certainly will have to look at the matter in the Committee stage. The annual charge for the newspaper called The Australian Bank Officer' will rise from $2,190 to $6,800,' representing an increase of $4,610 in a year. This presents all sorts of problems for organisations such as the Australian Bank Officials Association, which has a triennial conference to which it presents estimates for the next 3 years and suddenly finds itself in this situation. The annual charge for the Savings Weekly' will rise by 200 per cent from $1,300 to $3,900. An increase of S2,600 a year is a lot. Those are a couple of publications of the white collar unions which have been brought to my notice. 
Before I ask leave to have this information incorporated in Hansard, let me mention some of the journals involved and the percentage increases in the postal charges for them as a result of this Bill. The annual postage bill for the 'Australian Hardware Journal' will increase by 100 per cent to $5,208. The annual postage bill for Mingays Electrical News' will rise by 140 per cent, that for 'Club Management in Australia' by 110 per cent, that for the Journalist' - this little bit of a newspaper - by 300 per cent; and that for the 'Printing Trades Journal' by 140 per cent. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard that and other information relevant to the matter about which I am speaking. 

<graphic href="045232197009296_27_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009296_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

I suggest that these increases are haphazard. I suggest that they could not possibly have been thought right through because I do not believe that, even with the inflation which we grow used to, anybody would suggest that any organisation should be asked to bear an increase of 300 per cent in any item of expenditure. If this is the ultimate aim of the Postmaster-General, I do not know why he does not do as the Government does with air navigation charges, and give a guarantee that the charges will not rise by more than a certain percentage although over the course of time the ultimate aim will be reached. At least that would give people a chance to adjust their businesses. 
I do not want to overplay this point; but the printing industry people who came to see me pointed out that these sums were not insignificant in the whole turnover or the whole net profit of their business. The printing industry in Australia is not held in large hands or in the hands of overseas companies. Printing businesses are more middle type businesses. The printing industry people say that these increases can have 2 very dire effects. I questioned them fairly closely on this matter and I am convinced that there is at. least something in their argument. One is that they could be pushed into takeovers, particularly by overseas printing bodies. The other is that printing could move into the very cheap printing zones in the South East Asian area. Honourable senators will recall a little while ago we gave a subsidy on book printing. I believe that if these and other charges forced people to print in the Asian area the Government ultimately would be faced with a situation in which it would have to do something. I do not think any government would like to see the whole of the country's printing trade starting to move out into cheap labour areas and being shipped back into the country. I do not think any government would be able to let that go on for any length of time because the result could be very bad. 
I think it is undeniable that the Post Office is a taxing machine. Whatever is said about profits and whatever is said about whether or not it is legitimate to charge interest, the fact is that about $140m - or the figure of over $100m which  Senator Wright  put forward by interjection - is coming into the Post Office. If that money did not flow into the Government coffers then obviously it would have to be raised by some other means. 
I have dealt with the. Post Office side. 1 shall now deal with the amendment. We have opposed these measures for 2 reasons. The first is that we believe they are unnecessary and haphazard. Secondly, they are budgetary proposals which we of the Opposition said that we were going to knock back if we could as a challenge to the Government. I want to read again the amendment the Opposition has moved. It states: 
That the Bill bc . withdrawn and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee be' appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. 
I want to refer to the desirability and practicability of adopting this suggestion. The Government could very well set up such a committee. We would hope it would consist of all sections of the Parliament. It could well be found that a corporation was not desirable or practicable. At least we could find out, after 70 years of development of the Australian Post Office., whether this was desirable or practicable and we could lay the matter to rest. We would know exactly where we stood. There would be no great problem about the Government's widening the terms of reference if that was its wish. The amendment merely represents a basis for discussion suggested before by the Opposition. After 70 years the Post Office has just grown up. Along the way it has become a bit like Topsy. Even if no alterations were made as a result of this examination, I believe it could do nothing but help the great Australian Post Office and this Government or any future government which has to administer it. 
Let us consider the history of post offices throughout the" world. They arose out of necessity in the very early developing days of any country. A post office was a necessity of government. In those days it was not a necessity for businesses although nowadays the business community uses it more than do governments. In the very early days governments had to have communications. Without communications there was no government. This practice was followed by governments in every country. In Australia we followed the course adopted by governments in every pan of the world during the time of the early settlers. The situation today is a far cry from the days when communications made government possible. Governments in the early days had to communicate with far flung areas. They used camels, horses, boats, donkey teams and then later sulkies and buggies; Then the stage coach and similar things developed. A spider web developed which linked all the outback areas. This applied to countries such as Canada and. America as well as to Australia. Then there was a period of evolution when Morse and Bell by their magic introduced a new form of communications. This, too, came within the realm of the Australian Post Office. This was not the case in other countries, Canada and America particularly, where these forms of communications are operated by private individuals and not by governments. 
Then there developed the idea of allowing special rates for newspapers. This is a matter to be dealt with in another debate to be held today. We find even today that Press telegrams and Press cables have special rates. This principle developed when the Post Office moved from being merely a government service and spread into cultural and business areas. Over a period we have seen refinements made to the telegraph service. We saw the development of the old Morse line. There followed duplexes, quadriplexes and multiplexes and that sort of thing. Today we have satellites and the coaxial cable. The present communication system is far different from having communications carried on foot and by donkey teams in various parts of Australia. Today we have very sophisticated means of bouncing signals off satellites. The next move probably will be to control them virtually in invisible tubes. 
All these developments, with 2 exceptions, have been handled all along the line by the Australian Post Office. The first exception came about in the early 1920s, T think, when the Government of the day hived off radio. The second was the establishment of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. Both radio and overseas telecommunications could well have remained within the Post Office but it was decided to set up other government bodies. 
Today the Post Office is not only large; it is also a taxing authority. If the suggested inquiry established that it should be a taxing authority and the Government found that the amount required was not $100m or $140m but was $200m or $250m, there may still be nothing wrong with this. If this fact were established, if this operation became part of Government administration and were honestly revealed, then there might be nothing wrong with the idea. It might be a very good idea if the Government said: 'There, the Australian Post Office is a taxing authority and we are going to take that sum of money from it.' 
Why does the Opposition suggest a statutory body or a corporation? The reason,  Mr Deputy President,  is that Australian parliaments have had pretty wide experience with some bodies of this sort. I have jotted down the names of a number of them. They include the Commonwealth Bank, the Commonwealth Railways, the Australian National Airlines Commission, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Whaling Commission - I included that even though it is now defunct, because of the particular job that it did so efficiently - the Snowy Moun tains Hydro-electric Authority, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission and the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I notice that in another place the Postmaster-General asked: 'What sort of corporation do you want?' He threw up all the hurdles in the world without examining the proposition. AH that the Opposition seeks is an examination of the Post Office. I mentioned 9 organisations and if honourable senators look into them they will find that all sorts of strings were attached in different ways. In some there was more direct ministerial control and in others there was less. I think it is a false argument to say: 'Lay down on parchment in black and white the type of commission you want!' 
We run into a lot of arguments when we talk about the efficiency or inefficiency of the Post Office. Frankly, I am not arguing along those lines. This is a tremendous technological age. It is estimated that in the next 30 years we will advance more technologically than we have since the dawn of history, and the Post Office is right in the middle of this development. The Post Office has changed its telephone system to the crossbar type. It is using coaxial cables. It has gone through the gamut of telegraph communications and has entered into all sorts of weird and wonderful things. We say that there should be an inquiry after all these years. Efficiency and inefficiency are relative terms and I do not think they are a good basis for argument. One person will say something is efficient and another will say that it is inefficient. I have had a lifetime of interest in the Post Office and I can point to some sections of it which are highly efficient. I can point to other sections where I can see efficiency declining. Again, using my own argument against myself, I immediately say that this is a matter of opinion. Other people may say that they disagree by reversing the polarities I have mentioned. 
What are some of the advantages of a corporation? Firstly, there would be a very great advantage in removing the Post Office from direct ministerial control because of the political situation. I want to mention 4 general headings which could apply to an examination. There is the question of direct ministerial responsibility for a department or whether die Government should do what has been done in other areas, that is, to set up a body which would work under the general aegis of the Minister or the Government. There is no doubt that a Postmaster-General is under pressure in respect of certain Post Office activities. I am not pointing the finger at anybody. Let us go back and consider what has happened in borderline electorates during the 70 years that this Commonwealth Parliament has been in existence. When the question of the building of a post office in a suburb or country area is raised there is pressure on the Postmaster-General to give certain priorities. A post office building carries some form of prestige. 
I have wondered for many years whether we ought to be building suburban post offices. F believe that a very much more efficient basis could be established than the construction of big post offices in the suburbs. We have a highly efficient telephone system. The telegraph system is not used very much in the suburbs and has become just about non-existent. Mechanisation has been introduced into letter sorting and deliveries to certain points. Pensions and other social service payments can be made by cheque. Stamps are sold through machines. 1 think this question should be examined, and probably it is being examined. My point is that political pressures are applied. 
There are administrative advantages to be gained through a corporation. A personnel force can be built up in any bodies that are set up. The Post Office has been the recruiter for the Public Service for as long as we can remember, lt has been drained of many of its employees. I will not say that it has been drained of all its key personnel because we have some Post Office advisers with us today. Many postal people have been taken by other branches of the Public Service. This has happened mainly because the Post Office operates on such a wide base. 
Some people who have resigned from very senior positions in the Postal Department have indicated that ils planning could be very much improved and a greater long range view could be taken by the establishment of a corporation. It does not take very much thought to realise that senior departmental officers concerned with long term development may see that it is possibly not in the broad area of normal postal development. They might say: "'We are going to look 7 years ahead. In that time we face 2 general elections and there may be a change of government. If there is a change of government, we are doubtful that the new government will agree to this plan.' In that way it is possible to hamstring a government department at that level. 
The greatest illustration I can give of my point is the Snowy Mountains hydroelectric scheme. I remember attending briefings and lectures in 1950. lt was a most amazing situation. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was ordering equipment never before made. Its switching problems had not even been solved, lt was known that low power could be carried successfully over long lines and that high power could be carried over short lines. Never before in the field of electricity had high voltages such as those to bc produced by the Authority been carried over such long distances. Had the switching gear been built without advanced technical knowledge, not previously gained, the throwing of the first switch would have blown up the whole box and dice of the section operated by that switch. The Authority was confident that it could plan many years ahead to overcome such problems. 
The Authority ordered trucks - earth moving equipment at that stage was not even being built. There is a tremendous advantage to be gained by such bodies iri the planning field. Representation varies on the boards of corporations. I have not produced a breakdown in respect of the Australian Post Office, but I have for the United States Post Office. The business to business work done by the United States Post Office, through letters and telecommunications, consists of about 75 per cent to 80 per cent of its activities. In any reorganisation of the Australian Post Office the voice of the business world has a right to be heard, and it can be heard and the advice of the business world can be sought through the establishment of a corporation. 
The trade unions have a vital interest in the Post Office because it is the greatest employer of labour in Australia. The voices of the unions of white collar workers as well as blue collar workers should be heard. Much greater advances could be made in the technical field. This is always true in respect of boards as against government departments. Some outstanding people have set up boards in Australia. One immediately thinks of the establishment of the Australian National Airlines Commission.  Sir Arthur  Coles was asked to set it up and he did it without salary. At the end of every 3 months he wrote a cheque to return his travelling allowance because he did not want to accept any payment for his service to Australia. He set up a very efficient body. When considering such people it is necessary to ask whether we should not at least inquire whether such abilities that are available in Australia could not be brought to bear on the biggest organisation of the Commonwealth Government. 
In the field of Post Office accounts, 1 just about throw up my hands in despair when I try to wade through them. I have not been able to establish what is the real profit of the Post Office. I suspect that it is very much higher than we at present believe. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  was very worried about the sort of corporation that the Labor Party would like to set up to conduct the Post Office, and what sort of link it would have with the Parliament. I have listed corporations, and there are several I have not listed, which have been set up and are working efficiently and well in Australia today. I suggest to the Minister that a similar corporation or a combination of such bodies would be adequate for the job and would give very good service to the Post Office. The voice of the business world has a right to be heard in this respect. The Postmaster-General pointed out that one union of post office employees is opposed to the establishment of a corporation. I point out to him that the rest of the unions covering post office employees - at least those of which I am aware - are all for the move. It would be a good idea to hear both sides. Nobody is prejudging this matter. I was interested in some remarks of the Postmaster-General when he was dealing with this Bill. He said: 
If we were to cut out interest and reduce telecommunication charges, there would be an increased demand for telephones which it would be impossible to meet. 
This is very interesting. He went on: 
The Labor Party may say that it is only because of a lack of ability to manage the affairs of the Post Office. With overfull employment in Australia, we just do not go out onto the highways and byways and seek technical people to work in the Australian Post Office. I am bound to say to the House that at the present time it is almost impossible for the Post Office to meet the demand which is being made on its services because it is impossible to get technical people to do installation work and the cabb work associated with it. If we were to increase the demand for telephones  1  believe that we would get into  a  terrific mess in a comparatively short time. 
Is that the real reason why telephone charges were increased? The Minister cannot have it both ways. Either the reason is that he does not want a greater demand for telephones - and if that is so it is not an honest statement in his second reading speech - or if his second reading speech is an honest statement on the position, the statement I have just quoted is not honest. I wish he would make the position clear. If the Post Office is increasing its telephone charges, even though it is making a profit, in order to keep down the demand, the Postmaster-General should have said so in his second reading speech. He should not have been forced to say it in the situation that arose. 
I wonder to what extent the Post Office has sought technicians overseas. In the early days of the Post office many great postal people were brought from overseas. Brown was brought from overseas. Just after World War I there was a great demand for technicians because of the expansion of the telephone system of that time. Many engineers were brought from England, and some of their names have been very well known in the last few years. If the demand is being kept down by increasing telephone charges, contrary to what  Mr Hulme  said in his second reading speech, it is a completely negative approach. He is saying: 'Here is technical development which is one of the great wonders of our age. We will keep prices up so that people will not be able to buy our product.' Staffing poses a very great problem for the Post Office. I believe the setting up of a corporation would help to solve the staffing problem. Engineers of the type employed by the Post Office are a bit unique in their profession in that they are rarely self employed; they are largely employed by the Post Office. It is possible that if a corporation were set up it could train engineers and have a surplus of them. 1 do nol think anybody would be very worried if this were to happen. If engineers are placed in a position where they do not think that there is any future for them there is a danger of losing them. 
The point I am making about the establishment of a corporation is that we have come a long way from the time when the Post Office was concerned only with delivering a few letters. Some marvellous technological developments, have occurred in recent times and we are going to see a lot more of them. The Post Office is moving into new fields. It may be argued that the overseas and internal communications aspect of the Post Office's activities should be separated from the postal aspect and that one should be under the control of a corporation and the other should be under the control of the Government. After all, these activities were hived off many years ago. However, f think a prima facie case has been established for communication to be placed under the control of one body and the postal aspect to be placed under the control of another. The Opposition puts this suggestion forward to the Government. The Opposition challenges this Bill, which will give effect to the proposals outlined by the Government in the Budget, because it believes that the increased charges which have been proposed are unnecessary. The Opposition believes that the increases have been imposed in a haphazard manner, lt believes that because of the technological developments which have been made in recent times the Government should consider the possibility of setting up a corporation to perform some of the functions which are at present performed by the Post Office. 
Sitting suspended from 5.47 to 8 p.m. 

 - by leave - I am without the benefit of having notes before me on this matter, but I was struck by one or two points in the statement. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  seemed to me to make the point that the Commonwealth Government will be down by $9m that it expected to be paid and should be paid by the Victorian Government as payroll tax. A little later the Minister said that this would affect the reimbursements to the States. It therefore appears to me that there is some sort of agreement whereby on the one hand the payroll tax is paid to the Commonwealth and on the other hand is paid out by the Commonwealth. 
I have raised this point in the hope that perhaps a later statement will enlighten us on it. Am I to understand that under this agreement, arrangement or understanding the money was expected to be paid by the Victorian Government, and on that understanding the Commonwealth Government has already made arrangements for reimbursements to the States? If so, this seems to be further justification for a complete re-evaluation of Commonwealth and State financial relationships. Payroll tax seems particularly to justify a re-examination as it has been the subject of so much criticism in this Parliament over the years. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Willesee,  do you wish to seek leave to continue your remarks? 
No,  Sir. I  asked for leave to make a statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wright)  adjourned. 
The Post and Telegraph Bill sets out the new postal situation with respect to newspapers. They are placed into category A or category B. The First Schedule of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, with which we are now dealing, sets out the postal charges for newspapers. Rather than bore honourable senators by reading out a mass of figures I will deal with the matter briefly and broadly. Newspapers included in category A are to be subject to an increase of about 20 per cent in the postal charge. That increase has not been objected to by any of the printing trades or any of the people affected. Category B is the broader category because all exclusions from category A are automatically included in category B. Such publications are newspapers published by a social, recreational or motorists organisations, an organisation of employers or employees, or an organisation of persons engaged in or connected with business or a class of business or a profession or professions. It is clear that category B does not leave out too many people. The postal rates to be paid on such publications are set out in the First Schedule with which we are now dealing. 
During the debate on the second reading of this Bill I dealt, as other senators did, with the swingeing increases for class B publications. I do not intend to go through them all again now, but simply to mention one or two in order to underline the points I made in my speech at the second reading stage. As I said a few minutes ago, the charges for publications covered by category A are to be increased by 20 per cent. In the list I have before me of category B publications, the smallest increase is 100 per cent and the greatest increase is 300 per cent. If the annual postal bill was only about a shilling an increase of 100 per cent would not matter very much. However, I draw to the attention of honourable senators the position of the 'Australian Hardware Journal'. The postal bill for this journal is to be increased by about $2,600 a year. In such cases an increase of 100 per cent is rather significant. The Australian Workers Union faces an increase of $23,000 a year in its postal account. That is a tremendously high percentage increase. The postal charges for a little magazine like the New South Wales 'Police News' are to be increased by 120 per cent, which means that a reasonably small organisation has to find an extra $1,600 a year. The Electrical Trades Union must pay an increase of 300 per cent in its postal charges. They will rise from$3,528 to $14,148 a year. Tremendous sums of money are involved. 
We oppose this clause. I realise that it is the will of the Senate that the general increases should be granted, but I was encouraged by a specific reference to this matter by  Senator Gair.  He pleaded with the Government to withdraw the provision and see whether greater equity could be established. I submit that the Senate should reject the clause. This would give the Government a chance to withdraw it and to consult people it wished to consult. Members of the Opposition would certainly be only too willing to assist in discussions and to make available the tremendous amount of correspondence we have received on the subject, in order to iron out the problems. 
I appreciate that the Government will not agree to eliminate the clause, because the Senate by its vote tonight has determined that the new postal rates will become law. But surely it speaks for itself when one organisation faces increased postal charges of 300 per cent, or $23,000 a year. Surely no business, even in these wildly inflationary times, should be forced to accept an increase of 300 per cent in its postal account. Complaints are made in respect of increases between 5 per cent and 20 per cent. 
As I said in my speech at the second reading stage, the Government could find itself in a very invidious position in the final analysis. The printing establishments that will be so heavily affected are not large. They are medium sized businesses in the community. I have been assured that the postal charge increases will have a considerable effect on those businesses. They will be laid open for takeovers by overseas companies or big companies within Australia. The Government is encouraging by these increased rates the present trend of sending printing to cheap labour areas such as the countries of South East Asia. The publications will then be posted back here and the Australian Post Office will be obliged to deliver them without payment because they will have been posted in another country.  Senator Milliner,  who knows a great deal about the printing trade, is very worried about this situation. These increased charges will make a tremendous difference to people in printing trades. If this trend goes too far the Government will have to make a move to stop it by using other taxing methods such as excise duty, import controls and all the other methods that are in a government's hands. 
Government supporters may try to laugh off what I am saying and claim that the situation is being overplayed. Believe me, when the printers came to see us we crossexamined them very closely on this point. They produced convincing figures. I have discussed the matter with  Senator Milliner,  who has such a great knowledge of the printing industry. I am completely convinced that if not in the short run, certainly in the long run, the printing trades will be driven to a very awkward situation. Surely I do not have to argue at any length to show that this is completely unreasonable. I wish to offer a suggestion to the Minister. I would not mind if the Minister were to move that progress be reported. Further consideration of this legislation could be delayed until a later hour tonight or until tomorrow morning in order to allow the Minister to reconsider this matter. Even if increased charges are necessary in order to collect the amount of revenue which is necessary for the handling of these articles the increase should not be so steep in the one year. I believe that the Post Office should spread the increases over a period of time. We had an example of this only a week or two ago in the legislation dealing with airport charges. The Government has given a promise to airline companies that it will not increase airport charges by more than 10 per cent in a year. It is, of course, virtually a certainty that these charges will increase by 10 per cent but this gives the airlines a chance to adjust and a similar system would give publishing organisations that use the postal services a chance to adjust. 
It is too much to expect a publishing organisation to meet an additional expenditure of $23,000 on postage rates in a single year. The annual postage bill of the publication entitled 'The Australian Bank Officer' will rise by $6,800. Others will rise by 85,000. My suggestion is that rather than have the Opposition vote against this provision at this stage - the Australian Labor Party will certainly vote against it - the Minister should move that progress be reported and seek advice outside the chamber on the merits of staggering the increases. If she were to do so, the Minister would certainly receive all assistance that the Australian Labor Party can possibly give. 
 In a fairly full debate on clause 6 of the Bill the Opposition laid down the reasons why it believes it should oppose this Bill. Clause 7 involves another increase in the rates. The Opposition intends to vote against it. I do not want to go into detail as to why the Opposition opposes this clause, but I am prepared to do so if the Minister wants me to do so. I think it is sufficient for me to say that the Opposition will vote against this clause and it will vote against the third reading of the Bill. After all, the advice given to the Opposition by  Senator McManus  was that we should oppose all clauses of the Bill. Therefore, the Opposition will do so. I repeat that the Opposition believes that these increases are unnecessary. They are the result of an election promise by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to grant taxation concessions to certain sections of the community. Those concessions were given not on the lower incomes as was promised but on the middle and higher incomes and now they have to be paid for. The increases will  offset  the concessions given not to those on lower incomes, as promised, but to those on the higher and middle to higher incomes. This is the way the Government is paying for the concessions. Therefore, we oppose clause 7 of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Question (on motion by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin) put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
The Senate is now in the position where the amendment which I moved in the original Bill was not accepted by this House but an identical amendment, word for word, has now been moved by  Senator Gair  and seconded by  Senator Byrne.  Everybody knows that the Australian Labor Party wants an inquiry into the Post Office. I am strengthened in my belief by  Senator Rae's  interjection to  Senator Byrne. Senator Rae  said: 'We do not want to hear of an inquiry 16 years ago. Bring us up to date.' That is what the Australian Labor Party wants. We want to bring the situation up to date. We want an inquiry. The Democratic Labor Party also wants an inquiry to be held. So we have arrived at the situation where the majority of honourable senators want an inquiry to be held.  Senator Gair  has attached his amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. If the Australian Labor Party were to support this amendment it would put us in the position of supporting the Bill. At the outset of my address when I spoke on behalf of the Australian Labor Party I. said that we opposed this Bill on two levels. I said this even before I moved the amendment. I said the Labor Party opposed the Bill because we believed that the increases were unnecessary, that they were haphazard and that they had not been thought right through. 
In addition I said that we were opposing the Bill because it was a part of the Budget. It was not sensible to oppose the main Budget motion as moved in this Senate Chamber because the words are that we take note of the Budget papers. It would be silly to vote against taking note of the Budget papers. The only practical way in which an opposition can show its distaste for the Budget is to vote against those operative Bills which put budgetary proposals into effect. I repeat that the majority of honourable senators want to see an inquiry held. I suggest to  Senator Gair  that he withdraw his amendment. Let all honourable senators vote on the second reading in the way they want to vote. If  Senator Gair  'likes to bring his amendment up at any time - tomorrow if he wants to - I give my word that the Australian Labor Party will support him in asking for a committee of inquiry. It is quite simple. 
In the old words which  Senator Gair  will know so well: We have the numbers. It is the clearly expressed will of the Senate that we want to hold an inquiry into the future of the Post Office. 
I ask  Senator Gair  to withdraw his amendment now because we cannot support it in its present form and that means it will be defeated. That is not what he wants and it is not what we want for that amendment. Let us vote for or against the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, which would decide whether or not postal increases would go into effect.  Senator Gair  could then introduce his amendment as a separate issue. He can bring it in tomorrow morning if he wants to - certainly when we return the week after next - and the Australian Labor Party will support it. If he wants us to move it, we certainly will do so. We leave the .matter entirely to him. It is not a question of our trying to pre-empt him, trying to gain kudos for anybody or anything of that sort. 
 We moved it initially. 

 - Senator Gair has been in Parliament long enough to know what is happening. Had my amendment been carried, the Bill would have been defeated. But members of the Democratic Labor Party would not support it because they do not want the Bill to be defeated. That is fair enough. Now  Senator Gair  is moving the proposition in such a way- 
What about bringing yourself up to date? Now  Senator Ganis  moving the proposition in such a way that if we vote for it we are voting for the Bill. That is something we are not prepared to do. This Bill is part of the Budget. We want to reject it. We would like to see it rejected. We would like to see the Government go to an election on it. A party cannot be asked to retreat from such a situation. 
All right; the hee.haws are on again. I repeat what I said in my speech on the Budget and also in my speech on this Bill. Surely members of the DLP do not want me to retreat from .that situation. I repeat that had our amendment been carried the Bill would have been defeated. That is what we want. We want an election on it if the Government wants to take us to an election. Now the DLP creates a situation in which, if we support this amendment, we will be saying completely the reverse of what we have said all along. We will be saying that the Budget is a good one after we and the rest of Australia have said that it is not, and we will be saying that we support the Bill. 
I repeat the offer that I make to  Senator Gair.  If he likes to withdraw this amendment, he can then vote for the Bill; it can go through; the next Bill will go through; although we will oppose it; and we will even oppose the third reading. Then tomorrow morning, in only a few hours time, he can move this proposition in identical terms but not related to any of the Bills, and we will support it. Then we will "have the numbers. We will be able to move for the suspension of standing orders. We will be able to take the matter to the top of the business paper. It will be able to go through this place in a matter of hours. That is the proposition. I cannot be fairer than that. 
I repeat that the Australian Labor Party genuinely wants to see an inquiry into whether the set-up of the Post Office should be changed. Members of the DLP say that they want such an inquiry too. If they are genuine and if they want to stick to that, there is no problem at all. On many occasions  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has bent over backwards to see that the will of the Senate is carried out. Although he is not here at the moment and without being able to speak for him, I believe that he would not resist this proposal. The situation is that we will not vote for this proposition while we have to vote on this Bill. We believe that it is an iniquitous Bill. We intend to vote against it. If  Senator Gair  wants to move this proposition later, that is perfectly all right with us. We will support it; it can be carried; and then it can be transmitted to the House of Representatives. Thereby we will do what we want to do and what members of the Democratic Labor Party have already said they want to do. 
The Opposition has agreed to take the Bill as a whole merely to save time, rather than to divide on every clause of the Bill as we would do in normal circumstances. However, the hour is very late. There has been a good debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill and everybody knows where everybody else stands in relation to this matter. The Post and Telegraph Bill which is now before the Committee sets out in Clause 4 what is included in category A and what is in category B and amends the regulations covering all the multifarious charges covered by this Bill. I invite honourable senators to read what is included in category A. First are newspapers, which are covered by the cheap rate which has increased by 20 per cent compared with an increase of 300 petcent in other items. For the benefit of those who think that they might be able to bring their publications within category A I point out that there are specific exclusions and that no matter what organisation it is. it will come within the exclusions. The clause states:  but does not include a newspaper published by a social, recreational or motorists organisation, an organisation of employers or employees or an organisation of persons engaged in, or connected with, business or a class of business or a profession or professions. 
Whoever thought of that provision certainly cast the net very wide. I cannot think of anybody in the community who would not come within that exclusion. All thosepeople come into the net which excludes them from category A. 
We oppose the Bill. . I shall not go over all the arguments but I shall merely reiterate one point. When 1 suggested that this matter should be delayed, even for so short a period as 2 hours, the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  in this chamber, said that the matter must be dealt with immediately. Evidently 2 hours even would not be sufficient time to enable some equity to be brought into this measure. But I find it difficult to accept this. Surely the Postmaster-General was closely enough in touch with his Department to know that this situation was deteriorating over the years. Surely it has not been necessary all of a sudden to increase the charges in some cases by 300 per cent. Some organisations will have to pay an additional$23,000 a year in postage alone. I cannot accept that the increases could not have been made in gradual steps. I cannot accept that the change must be brought in on 1st October - in half an hour's time.I cannot accept that these new rates could not have been brought in over a period of 1, 2, 3 or 4 years. Every industry which has communicated with us has accepted the fact that we are living in an inflationary period, that inflation is the policy of this Government and that therefore there must be some minor price rise, but they have said that an increase of 20 per cent on one category and an increase of 300 per cent on another category is clearly inequitable and unfair and should never have come into this legislation. We will oppose every clause of the Bill, but we will not take the Commitee through the procedure of dividing on each clause. Although we will have one division, 1 want it to beclearly understood that we oppose not clause 1, clause 2 or clause 3 but every clause in the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the Bill stand as printed. 
by leave - In the short break that we will have I wonder whether the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will ascertain whether the rather early date on which the Senate election is to be held, namely 21st November, will affect in any way the sittings of the Parliament As is known, the House of Representatives, which dominates us a fair bit as to our sitting days, will rise on 13th November. If there is any intention in the Government's mind to alter that date it would be a great help to every senator and every member of the House of Representatives to know what is proposed. 
I have 2 other comments to make. Firstly, I am disappointed that we go to yet another election without the voting age in Australia having been lowered. It is plain that it is the wish of the Australian people that that should be done. Now that Queensland has come into line I think that every State government intends to lower the voting age. The generation gap is driven much wider when oldies like vis hesitate and vaccilate- 
I can hear someone saying that I should speak for myself. I do speak for myself because time passes me by very quickly. Apparently we cannot see something which is obvious and we allow the present system to continue for yet another election. Without going into the very highly emotional things which affect youth today, it is obvious that they will shortly have the vote at 18 years of age and it is a disappointment to me that this Parliament, unless I can coax the Government into slipping a Bill through in the next few weeks, will not give the vote to that section of our community. 
The other thing which disappoints me is that this Government has failed to take its courage into its hands and bring together again the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. The present arrangement is inefficient. It came about for political purposes and, whatever the justification for it in those days on a political level, it is drifting along. It is expensive. It is not good for any government to have to shape its policies towards an election, and it is not good for the Australian people to be going to the polling booths just about every second Saturday afternoon to vote in one election or another. I hope that the next time an announcement is made about an election both the question of giving the vote to our youth, and the question of bringing the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives together again, will be in the forefront of the Government's mind. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation say whether the general exemption from the payment of sales tax by Qantas Airways Ltd has been revoked? Will this revocation cost Qantas about Sim per annum? Was this revocation proposed as a result of a submission from any foreign airline operator? 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What mintings have been commissioned from the Royal Australian Mint during the last 2 years by the two companies Commemorative International Limited and Pacific Medallions Pty Ltd. 
Whatwas the number of medallions struck in each particular minting and the cost of materials involved. 
What was the charge made by the Royal Australian Mint for performing each particular minting. 
and (2)- 
Commemorative International Pty Ltd. 4,343 medals (18 ct gold) to commemorate the Captain Cook Bi-centennial Year. 2,004 medals (18 ct gold) to commemorate the 1970 Royal Visit. 
Negotiations with the Company are proceeding for the production of medals to commemorate the visit of Pope Paul VI to Australia. 
Pacific Medallions Pty Ltd. 1,000 medals (18 ct gold) to commemorate the visit of Pope Paul VI to Australia. 1.000 medals (silver) for the same purpose. 
The mint has no information on the cost of the materials used. Contractors supply the Mint with the appropriate blanks for striking. 
The Mint is concerned only with the manufacture of the dies and with the striking of the blanks supplied to it. The Mint is charging a commercial rate for these services but the details of the charges are confidential in accordance with normal business practice, 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the present number of official post offices in Australia. 
What number of these post offices are permanently closed on Saturday mornings. (3)In each of the preceding 5 years what percentage of post offices have been permanently closed on Saturday mornings. 
1,480 (as at 30th June 1970). 
213. 
Percentage of official post offices closed on Saturday mornings: 

<graphic href="046232197010134_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

 One of the alterations to the exemptions and classifications contained in this Bill was brought to my notice and I asked the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  a question on it the other day. I understand that Qantas Airways Ltd, which was enjoying exemption from sales tax, will not enjoy that exemption after this Bill becomes law. I asked the Minister whether that was true and whether it was a fact that this alteration would cost Qantas in the vicinity of $lm a year. He said that it was true that this was happening, but at that stage he was unable to confirm or deny the figure I suggested. I am wondering whether he has any more information now. As I understand the position, the estimate is that this alteration will cost Qantas about $900,000 a year, plus the cost of extra staff that will have to be employed. 
Also, I would like to know why Qantas has to lose this exemption at this stage. Is it because of pressure from overseas air lines which think thatthey will obtain some gain from this alteration? Is there some agreement under which they can exert pressure? What warning did Qantas have of this alteration? As I understand the situation, it came very suddenly and has caused a great deal of trouble in future budgeting by Qantas. It does not take a lot of reasoning to work out that if a company is budgeting and it thinks that it has another$1m a year to spend and it suddenly finds that it has not, its planning will be thrown out to that extent. Can we have some comments from the Minister in regard to this matter? 
 I want to give what I might call a holding notice of motion in relation to a regulation because if notice of motion is not given today the regulation will take effect. I will move the motion merely for the purpose of holding the matter for further consideration. I give notice that on the next day of sitting 1 shall move: 
That regulation 2 of the amendments to the National Service Regulations as contained in statutory rules 1970, No. 116. and made under the National Service Act 1 95 1 - 1 968 be disallowed. 
I emphasise that this is the last day on which notice of motion may be given if the regulation is not to take effect automatically. We want to give the matter further consideration and then advise the Senate what our intention will be. 
Before the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  responds, I accept what the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said this morning. I have been here long enough not to worry about trifling matters, lt seems to me that wc have got off on the wrong foot somewhere. The Minister might remember that when debating the Post and Telegraph Bill, which is analagous to this Bill, I raised the point that the Department of Works was making a charge on the Postmaster-General's Department. 1 gave a figure.  Senator Wright,  the Minister for Works, interjected and said that he did not think that the figure was correct. I asked him to give me the correct figure at some future time. The interesting point was that it seemed to me that the Government was taking certain departments, which were in the form of trading departments, and applying a normal charge as it would to other businesses. That is what I was trying to establish in respect of Qantas. 
I am not quarrelling with the position. I am just seeking information about Qantas. The Minister may remember that last night I asked 2 questions. I now wish to ask a question I did not ask last night. Was this a decision of the Department made in circumstances similar to those in respect of which I was trying to elicit information from the Department of Works about the Post Office, that is to say, was a special charge made, or did it come about by way of agreement with other airlines? I think the Minister will appreciate the point of that immediately. Later today we will be debating a measure on air navigation charges. The Government promised or entered into an agreement with the airlines that it would not increase air navigation charges by more than 10 per cent a year. I am wondering whether there is some tie up in the field of aviation. For that reason I asked whether any pressure was applied by the overseas airlines. 
If an agreement was entered 'into, that pressure could be quite properly applied. If there was no agreement, I think that should be staled. On the other hand, is this something that has come up from Treasury? I will be interested to learn why this year it has suddenly been raised. Is Treasury saying to Qantas: 'You are a trading department. We do not think that you should have sales tax exemptions and we take them away from you.'? If that is the position, f agree wilh  Senator O'Byrne.  T regret that it is being done. Qantas is a completely government controlled airline operating in a very competitive field, ls this move in respect of completely controlled government departments like the Postal Department and Qantas? Was any agreement in existence with overseas airlines? Did those airlines operate under that agreement? I think that sums up the purpose of my inquiries. 
Last Friday  Senator Murphy  gave notice that he would move the motion which was moved on his behalf today by  Senator O'Byrne.  This motion seeks the reference of a matter to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade for inquiry. By his actions  Senator Murphy  gave the Senate due notice that this matter would be debated today. The Opposition today proceeded with its intentions and  Senator O'Byrne  took over from  Senator Murphy  in the presentation of the Opposition's case.  Senator Wright  has just completed arguing against the proposition that further debate on this motion should continue. He had a perfect right to do so. What beats me is why  Senator Wright  tried to gag the debate and not give anybody else the right to speak. Why did he not show to other honourable senators the respect - a word which drips off his tongue so frequently - to which they are entitled? Why did he seek to gag the debate? 
In 2 months I will have been in this Parliament for 21 years. This is the first time I have ever seen any honourable senator, let alone a responsible Minister, ask for leave to continue his remarks without having first arranged with the other side to do so. Of course, it would have been  Senator Wright  who organised this move because  Senator Drake-Brockman  would not know what it was all about, lt would be very easy to arrange such a move outside of the chamber. I know a little about this. It was set up- a few weeks ago before you came into it. It was obvious by the behaviour of  Senator Bull,  who was in the Chair at the time, that this thing had been set up. 
What have I said? 
I will not pursue that. 
1 withdraw it.The Democratic Labor Party and  Senator Byrne  seemed to get very excited about the situation. I do not think there is any doubt that when the Democratic Labor Party moved that a royal commission should be set up the discussion was developing into an excellent debate. We had reached the position where 3 propositions were before the Senate. I remember discussing them with  Senator McManus  who was, at that time, most anxious to bring the matter to a vote, as I was. At that time the Government said that it would not be fair to gag people from debating the matter - it seems to have changed its mind since then - and not allow it to proceed. Of course we were the innocents abroad. We swallowed that. The debate has never been brought on. I repeat that at that stage the Democratic Labor Party had moved that a royal commission be set up to look at the rural industries. The Government, quite rightly, said it did not think that that was the appropriate way to handle the matter and that industry-sponsored committees of inquiry should be set up. 
On behalf of the Australia Labor Party I forecast that I would move yet a third proposition. All these propositions were being honestly debated. I do not attribute motives to any of the Parties in relation to these propositions. It may be that a royal commission might be the best way or it may be that industry-sponsored committees might be the best way to look into the rural industries. The Australian Labor Party felt that the urgent position of the industry required something else. We believed that if various industries which were already bedevilled could not show themselves or the Australian people the way out they obviously would be asking for Government assistance and the merrygoround would be started again. That was our belief. On the other hand the Democratic Labor Party said that the only way to handle the matter, even if it took some time, was to appoint a royal commission. Our proposition was that we would call an emergency meeting - not a normal meeting - of the Australian Agricultural Council to review the present crises in the countryside and to give proper national leadership to end without delay the present uncertainty and current hardship. 
That Council consists of all the State Ministers and the Federal Minister concerned with primary industry. We did this because we believed here was the power of decision making. Today  Senator McManus  spoke derogatorily about politicians and said that this was the worst possible way to inquire into the rural industries. But members of this Council are not mere politicians. They ali hold very responsible positions in the States and the Commonwealth. Attached permanently to that Council is the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. It is the responsibility of the Committee to secure co-operation, coordination and agricultural research throughout the Commonwealth as well as three or four other things. In other words the Committee is standing permanently, waiting for requests or directions from the Minister for Primary Industry. He can draw on the resources of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Health, the Department of Trade and Industry and the Treasury which is the most important one, I suggest. As1 far as I can see there was a completely honest approach from 3 sections of the Parlia ment. One proposition would have had to be resolved.  Senator McManus  said it was no good going on if the Government and the Labor Party were going to jack up. This was not the situation at all. 1 repeat that I thought an honest attempt was being made to do something positive, to get out of the imbroglio in which we found ourselves in relation to rural industries and to do something about the problem. 
We are coming to a Senate election and to a long parliamentary delay without a decision having been made. Since the night of the debate to which I have referred alteration has been made in the committee system of the Senate and in what we can do in this Parliament. We have set up permanent standing committees. 1 do not want to take honourable senators through that matter again. I think we have all had plenty of debate on that subject. But the Democratic Labor Party suggested that only 2 committees should be altered. Honourable senators will remember that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved to establish the committees which are now operating for this period of 3 or 4 weeks and which will operate each year at Budget time. We moved that 8 standing committees should be set up. The Democratic Labor Party thought that that was too many and that there ought to be two. Out of all that debate we have established 2 sets of committees. T think the resolution is that we look at the rest of the committees in 1 2 months time. 
I heard somebody interject and say to  Senator Byrne,  to assist him, that the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade would not meet until next May, or it may have been next March. This Committee is permanently standing by. All we did was to try to get this proposition from the business paper where .it has been lying for months and put before a standing committee.  Senator Wright,  as he had ever)' right to do, argued against this proposition. I do not know why he wanted to gag everybody else. We are willing to listen. Some of the remarks impressed me. There may be delays. All I say is that he is not attributing a great degree of competency to this Committee. When it meets it will have the benefit of the debate which took place, lt will have the benefit of the 3 propositions which have been put forward by the 3 sections of this House. The Committee can make up its mind,  hi  the job is too big it can come back to this Parliament and say so. That is the debate we wanted to have today. That is the debate we want to listen to. We want to hear the arguments against our proposition. 
No.  Senator Rae  is interjecting on perfectly logical debate. 1 would like to hear him on the subject. Maybe we are wrong. This is why I want honourable senators to debate the matter.  Senator Wright  does not want it debated. He wants to prevent honourable senators from speaking. I want honourable senators to speak. I want to hear everybody on the matter. If we are wrong the matter will not be referred to the Committee. Maybe it has too much work. That is a perfectly valid proposition which the honourable senator is putting up and I would like to hear him further on it. I hope he gets a chance to speak. 
That is the point. This afternoon there was some unprecedented noise. In 21 years this is the first time I have ever seen anybody - particularly a Minister - ask for leave to continue his remarks without having let the Opposition know that he intended to do so. This is generally a device used to assist the Government to introduce urgent business, to make .statements at the same lime as they are made in the other place or generally to help in the running of this place. I do not remember a time when there have been any difficulties. But obviously this was the gag being applied in another manner. I remember how the last session of Parliament finished with  Senator Wright  gagging throughout the night. When I came into the chamber this afternoon I had some suspicions. At one stage the disorder was so great in this place that I appealed across the chamber to  Senator Young  who very decently listened to me and the noise quietened down. That is how bad it was. 
When one is trying to listen to a debate the noise makes it a bit difficult. 1 do not mind clean-cut interjections but I dislike the person who keeps giggling or continually interjecting.  Mr President,  in your absence today that is how noisy this place became. Some honourable senators on the Government side responded to a request by me - not by the Chair - for some order.  Senator Wright  has put up a most amazing proposition. After we had heard from 'one  speaker  from the Labor Party, from the Democratic Labor Party and from  Senator Wright  he said that the best thing to do would be to gag the debate. 
The honourable senator did. A rose by any other name smells just as sweet. The Minister says he was not gagging the debate. He arranged for the Minister- 
I am not talking about that. I am just talking about this particular case. Do not go back into history. Let us deal with what happened today. If  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, says to us: 'We are going to gag this debate and we have the numbers to do it', he generally has the decency to tell us. He may be ruthless and bring down the old tough boot, but at least he has the decency to tell us. What happened today was that the debate was gagged but it was not called a gag by  Senator Wright.  Honourable senators on the Government side shake their heads. I would like it explained to mc. 
Good. Three senators having spoken on the subject,  Senator Wright  said that the debate would be adjourned so that wc could proceed to another debate, to something else, so that other honourable senators could have a chance to speak. It appears that they are to have an equal chance to speak on topics of  Senator Wright's  choosing rather than those chosen by this Parliament or in accordance with the usual arrangement. The debate was gagged, and they should not try to call it anything else. 1 have been here a few more minutes than some honourable senators opposite. Do not try to tell me that the debate was not gagged. What did they hope to achieve by it? Did they hope to achieve a saving of time? We have not done that. Did they hope to avoid debating the issues? They have noi achieved that; we have been debating them ali the afternoon. This action was a typical  Senator Wright  smart tactic that failed. We have been alerted because of his behaviour on past occasions. I will watch my language on this, but it is obvious to me  -  I have been here too long - that this move was set up outside this chamber, and no decency was shown to the Leader of the Opposition in telling him that this was to be done. 
We are on the eve of an election. Apparently the Government intends to gag every debate in this place, because there are Opposition matters which it is no! game to discuss, lt is not game to debate what has flowed out of the Budget. The Government comes in here with this soft shoe sort of attitude, lt uses an iron fist and a velvet glove. Who does the Government think it is kidding? Of course what happened this afternoon was a gag and of course it was set up outside this place before we assembled. If this is the way the Government wants to act, whether it be in relation to rural industries or anything else, its action will be on its own head, lt talks about the dignity of the Parliament.  Senator Wright  talks about respect for other people. I say to the members of this Liberal-Country Party Government that the only way to give respect, the only way to show dignity, is by example and not by lecturing. 
1 have one very brief and quick comment on this motion. We would support it on the presumption that the matter would come to a vote. As indicated on several occasions, what the Australian Labor Party wants is to bring the matter to a vote and to have a decision made on this whole complex rural question. 

 Senator- WILLESEE - Yes. I mentioned yesterday that  Senator McManus  had conveyed to me when we debated this matter some months ago that his Party wanted it to be voted on. I agreed with that. This is the way to bring up for discussion the 3 different approaches that have been suggested. So, the Labor Party would support the motion moved by  Senator McManus. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am speaking in advance of the proposal. I am not talking about what happened in the past when, because of circumstances, it was necessary to push the matter along. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I shall be quite brief. The great regret I have is that, after trying for many years to get new hours and days of sitting, the Senate was successful in doing so only to find the understanding being broken last week. The Opposition agreed to the Government's proposal to sit for 2 weeks and then have 1 week off. Members of the Opposition discussed this matter amongst themselves in the Party rooms and finally accepted the proposal. I regret that the Government has broken the arrangement.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has said that one cannot foretell the work load. To a. degree one can foretell it. One has only to pick up the notice paper of the other place. It is not necessary to wait until legislation is introduced in this chamber to know what work is involved. It is true that we do not know which Bills will be introduced in the other place and what statements will be made in the next few days. However, the necessity to sit on a Monday or a Friday should be foreseen. It is true that unusual circumstances arose yesterday which prolonged the debate. 
 Senator Greenwood  yells at Opposition senators and then wonders why they ask him to be quiet. The Opposition wanted a debate yesterday on the rural crisis. It was the Government which did not want to debate this matter. All it wanted to do was debate procedure. The Opposition would love to hear from  Senator Greenwood.  It might disagree with what he has to say, but the Opposition would love to hear from him. The only other thing that I say to my young friend  Senator Greenwood  is this: Do not set yourself up as God. Do not say that this is a waste of time. Surely the basis of parliamentary democracy is that the individual speaks about matters that are important to him and relevant to the things that have been put up to him. So do not sit back in judgment and say that this is a waste of time or that is not a waste of time. 
I regret that we have to vote against this motion, but we do so because we want to bring home to the Government that we are serious about the new sitting times. We really think that overall the proposed sitting times would have been for the best. I think it would be a mistake to sit on Monday and to do so would reverse the earlier arrangement. As  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson knows, we have to wait on legislation coming from the other place. By sitting on Monday we could find ourselves waiting for business to come from the other place. It is better that we become the tail end Charlie in this and not try to step ahead of the other chamber. I think that in this the Government is making an error of judgment, but more importantly I regret that it is breaking the agreement that was made by all parties. That is why we will vote against the motion. 
Question put: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn to Monday next at 3 p.m. 
 I had not intended to intervene at this stage, but I would like to point out that one of the main reasons why the Australian Labor Party sought to do exactly what  Senator Gair  has said - reject the Budget - was because we wanted to have an election based on the Budget. However, the Australian Democratic Labor Party has not supported us in that follow up action. We have opposed the enabling Bills which are designed to bring into the legislative programme the matters outlined previously by the Government. Up to now supporters of the DLP have been saying that if we were to stop the Government from gathering revenue through the Bills we would upset the budgetary position in an irresponsible way. 

 Senator Gair has just reminded us that you cannot get more out of a pint pot than a pint. We are not seeking to take anything out. The Government is seeking to take something out of the pint pot, because this Bill is to carry out more in toto than was promised as taxation concessions by the Prime' Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the last election campaign.I was at a loss for a while to understand why more is to be given tothe Australian taxpayers than the Prime Minister indicated. During the debate on the Budget I and several of my colleagues pointed out that one of the worst forms of promise is one made during the course of an election campaign. Such a promise gave rise to the F111 debacle and to debacles in other areas. In the parliamentary system today and in the whole field of government and big business, because of the fast moving economic times in which we live, it is not sufficient for a Government supporter simply to talk off the top of his head without proper research. 
Obviously in the case of the F111, as well as the taxation concessions we are now debating, serious thought and proper research were not engaged in. That is why, when the Budget was introduced, there was provision for greater concessions to the Australian taxpayers than had been indicated by the Prime Minister. The reason was obvious. Very clearly Treasury had not been consulted at the time of the election campaign. An election promise was made without any research. When the Prime Minister gave instructions to the Taxation Branch of the Treasury to bring down the proposals he had referred to, the Branch was unable to do it in time. It is not possible to alter the whole of the taxation schedules in 5 minutes. 
In. order to find a way out of the difficulty the Government has proposed a flat rate reduction of 10 per cent, a system which contains all the anomalies to which the Australian Labor Party is opposed. We have proposed that the legislation be withdrawn and redrafted so that the real promise made by the Prime Minister can be carried out. Only half of the promise is being carried out in this legislation. Some money is being given back to the Australian taxpayers, but the part of the Prime Minister's political promise that the middle and lower income earners would be benefited is not being carried out. The middle income earners, and particularly the lower income earners, are to be worse off. The people who are to get the benefit are the upper middle income earners and higher income earners. 
I cited figures supplied by Professor Brown of the Australian National University showing that about one person in 80 has annual taxable income of over $10,000. The people who are to get the greatest benefit of these taxation concessions are those with the highest incomes on the scale. People who do not pay any taxation will receive no direct taxation concessions and will be much worse off because of the swinging increases in indirect taxation. I remind honourable senators that there are people in the community who do not pay direct taxation. I refer, for example, to a person with a low income who has a period of a few weeks unemployment during the year. In that circumstance he might not be liable to pay income tax. The whole of this regressive system of taxation has been exposed and highlighted through the combination of a hasty deci sion made during an election campaign and a system of taxation which operates so that the people who are best off in the community will receive the greatest taxation concessions. People on low incomes will obtain no benefit and some will even be worse off. The Government has said quite honestly that if it gives a certain amount back in direct taxation concessions it has to find avenues through indirect taxation to regain those sums. 
I do not want to go over all the arguments about indirect taxation that have been raised in the Senate in the last few weeks. The difference in our position from that of the Government on that score is not a proper subject for debate at this time. The fact is that the Government has sought to compensate itself through indirect taxation for the direct taxation concessions. Those taxpayers who are to receive a small concession through this measure will suffer through increases in indirect taxation. People on higher incomes will not suffer any more through indirect taxation but will get the greatest benefit from direct taxation concessions. For that reason we move that the legislation be withdrawn and redrafted. 
I have no doubts that had this amelioration of taxation come about in the normal manner the Government would have done precisely what was in the mind of the Prime Minister when he made his election campaign promise. He said then that the lower and middle income earners would get the benefits. That result has not been achieved because the Prime Minister had not done his homework or proper research. His officers had to tell him that it was impossible to carry out his promise in the short space of time available. I. repeat that that is why the concessions to be granted through this measure exceed the amount that was suggested by the Prime Minister. 
We have been over this ground before. I rose merely to point out the inconsistencies in the approach of the Democratic Labor Party and also point out that it would not cost the Government a penny more if it were to carry out our suggestions. It might even cost less, because it might be possible to get back to the figure originally suggested by the Prime Minister during the last election campaign. This measure will serve as a warning to the people of Australia to distrust promises made during election campaigns, lt is not possible to do business like that any more in Australia. Proper research is essential. 
Had the promise of taxation concessions not been made as it was, the Taxation Branch would have bad an opportunity to introduce the concessions that the Prime Minister had in mind. We are now giving the Government an opportunity to carry out what was implicit in the Prime Minister's promise in the first place; that is, when concessions are given to the Australian people, the burden should be borne by those people with the broadest backs. When something is given back, it should be given to the weaker section of the community, to the middle and low income earners. A thought should be spared for the people who do not pay any direct taxation. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  which is designed to give the Government an opportunity to recast these taxation proposals even at this late stage. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the remarks by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Legislative Assembly in New South Wales and also those of  Mr Asimus  and  Mr Gullet  of the General Council of the New South Wales Graziers Association regarding the question of selling wool in Australia. They again underline the claim that overseas buyers are deliberately combining to depress the price of Australian wool. I ask the Minister: Is there anything in Australian legislation, such as the Trade Practices Act, which could combat this practice? If there is not anything in our legislation at the moment, can he foresee the Australian Government taking action to try to combat this deliberate attempt to depress wool prices? 
I have seen only a very brief reference this morning to the matters to which  Senator Willesee  alludes. He has referred to statements made by other people. I am not aware of the implications of the restraints which could be placed upon such an action, but I do know that the Government proposes to introduce legislation relating to the wool industry. It is hoped that the legislation will come to the Senate before we rise. The legislation is designed to give tremendous assistance to the wool industry and I am confident that it will. I would not want to make any further comment beyond that at this point of time. 
asked the Minister representingthe Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons  of  non-European stock were granted Australian citizenship during each  of  the past 10 years? 
How many persons  of non-European  stock  were  resident in Australia under each of the various classes  of  permit during each  of the  past 10 years? 
What werethe categories  of  occupation and the nationality  of  the persons referredto in (1) and (2) above during each  ofthe  past 10 years? 
The following table shows the number of nonEuropean aliens granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation in each  of  the years 1960-1969, inclusive: 

<graphic href="046232197010285_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

Total figures only of British non-Europeans granted Australian citizenship by registration are available for the years 1962 to 1964 inclusive, as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197010285_11_3.jpg"></graphic>

The following are the statistics for 1965 to 1969 inclusive:_ 

<graphic href="046232197010285_11_4.jpg"></graphic>

As at 31 December of each of the years 1961 to 1969 inclusive the number of persons of non-European descent- excluding Australian citizens, students and short term visitors- in Australia was: 

<graphic href="046232197010285_11_5.jpg"></graphic>

the statistics for residence are estimates only because the Department has no means available to it to record the death of individuals or the departure from Australia of persons of nonEuropean descent who are British subjects. 
The number of non-European students present in Australia during each of the past 10 academic years is as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197010285_11_6.jpg"></graphic>

It is not possible to state precise statistics of the number of short term visitors in Australia at any given time. (31 Apart from the nationality breakdown shown under (1) above, the information sought is not recorded in statistical form. 
 I shall be quite brief. I would ask the Senate to examine some of the recommendations which have been included in the reports of the Estimates Committees. For instance, the Estimates Committee of which I was a member reported in the first paragraph of its recommendations that during the course of taking evidence it was concerned about the lack of clarity and appropriate information in the Budget papers in the presentation of figures relating to programmes and expenditure of departments. Certain of the matters which have been criticised tonight have been discussed already by the Estimates Committee of which I was a member. I trust that this matter is something which the responsible Ministers will take up with their departments for the future edification of the Estimates Committees. 
The thing that impressed me most was probably our greatest defeat. It is referred to on page 2 of the report of Committee C. We were making inquiries about things which had interested us over the years and the public servant concerned finally said to us: 'I think you are doing all right the way you are going now.' It was not the reply we wanted but I appreciated his frankness, and at least it brought a confrontation between the senators present and the public servant who was handling the matter. For many years we have tried to get this via the Minister but some difficulty always seemed to arise. The pipeline seemed to get clogged somewhere along the way. Public servants are always reticent about being frank because of the nature of the peculiar occupation that they have chosen - I know something of that, having been a public servant for 19 years - and it is refreshing for everyone if they get the opportunity to be frank and if we get the direct answer that we require. 
In the closing paragraph of its report Committee C had this 10 say: 
The Committee felt that consideration should be given in future to the number of committees which meet simultaneously- 
That has been mentioned tonight, and I do not think there is any argument about it. It was a fault in our initial thinking-  to the rotation of committees sitting simultaneously, and to the general accommodation which is available for committee meetings. 

 Senator Poyser was right when he said that the 21 school children whom he was showing through Parliament House - I do not know what grades they were- 
If they were of matriculation standard  Senator Poyser  has a genuine complaint in that the accommodation available did nol allow him to introduce those school children to this new and very detailed aspect, of parliamentary work. The reference that we have made to that has been underlined by what  Senator Poyser  has said. The report went on: 
Consideration should also be given to increasing the time available for the sittings of the committees. 
If there is one thing which is in short supply here it is lime. The quarter of an hour which was allowed us to move to the commitee room to conduct a very detailed examination of the Estimates was inadequate because time was not available to do the research that one needs to do on the subjects under examination. 
From our experience here extending over a number of years we all know that it is most difficult to get co-operation in committees where the situation which applies in the House, where one speaks to a Bill or a motion and then has no further right to speak unless he happens to be the mover does not apply. There one can butt in and engage in cross-fire. On a number of occasions I said to two of my colleagues who are in the chamber now: 'Do you mind if I listen to your private conversation across the table?' 
Two people in each Committee bear an extra responsibility and must exercise a lot of self-discipline. One is the  chairman  and the other is the Minister. The  chairman  has to attune himself to the feeling of the committee. Of all the committees of which 
I have ever been a member only one had a very efficient chairman. He was the late Eddie Ward. Whatever else is said about Eddie, he was tremendously efficient in committee work. It requires a very special skill to be chairman of a committee, and the chairmen and Ministers here will have to develop it. For instance  - I  made this comment to the Committee the other day - at one stage of our proceedings 1 noticed the Minister was contradicting something that had been said in the Senate in the debate on a Bill.  I  appreciate that when a Minister believes that his Department is being misrepresented he takes the first opportunity to try to correct the position, but if every Minister is to go through all the debates recorded in Hansard and use the committee system to reply to them, one does not need very much imagination to realise where we will finish. There is no umbrage in this.  I  merely say that the chairmen and the Ministers have a very special responsibility. 
I do not think there is any doubt that the Estimates were subjected to very close examination. Despite any heat that might have been engendered and any personal clashes that might have occurred - I address these remarks particularly lo  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate, moved for the setting up of the Committees  - I  would not disregard any of the criticisms that were made because ultimately they are the rock on which these things will stand or fall. We have not reached the end of this matter yet because the Appropriation Bill still has to be passed, but when we reach that stage we will be able to see the extent to which we have been attuned, the amount of time (hat will be saved and die amendments which should be moved.  I  mention these things in the most constructive manner. The criticisms that have been made have been genuine. Although we may disagree with them we should not reject them because the committee system is in the. embryonic stage and even the critics have wished it well. Unless we approach this matter in the right spirit we will not make a success of it. 
by leave - The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  gave me the benefit of looking at this statement only 5 or 6 minutes ago. Therefore, it is not possible to have a debate or to make any long statement on it now. But, in anybody's language, this is a very tough statement. I was only able to underline passages in the statement as the Minister was reading it because 1 did not have a copy of it in front of me before that. It says, for example: 
As soon as a duty - be it fixed, as will be the case of mutton and lamb, or variable, as will be the case for the other products - is struck against imports from Australia this will be a breach of this undertaking for free entry. 
And also: 
The British action will cut across the trade agreement that Australia has with Britain. 
I do not suppose that this could come at a very much worse time for primary production in Australia. It underlines the toughness of foreign relations with any country, even allowing for the traditional ties that we have with Britain. It also underlines one other thing: About 5 or 6 years ago we had debates here on the question of Britain entering the European Economic Community. I suppose that we should be thankful for small mercies and be grateful that we have had this period of time to develop our Asian trade and our great mineral exports. I make no further comment on the matter. I merely emphasise the seriousness of the statement that has been put down by the Government tonight. It is like the arrival of something one has been long awaiting. The entry of Britain into the European Economic Community has now come much closer, and this is one of the first warning shots across our bow. 
 I move: 
That Part IV of regulation 2 of the amendments of the National ServiceRegulations, as contained in Statutory Rules1970, No. 1 16, and made under the National Service Act 195 1-1968, be disallowed. 

 Mr President, you will note that there is a slight difference between the terms of the motion which I have just moved and the notice of motion which has appeared on the notice paper since 16th October, which is when I first gave notice of this matter. The motion for disallowance was delayed for 7 or 8 days at my request. The Senate will recall that on an earlier occasion I said that it was a holding motion and I wanted to have the chance to look further into it. It would be obvious to anybody who examines this matter that there could not be any argument about the first part. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration to an answerI. got yesterday to a question seeking the classifications of persons of nonEuropean stock granted entry into Australia. The answer contained a very comprehensive scale for which I thank the Minister. However, it surprised me greatly andI wondered whether the question had been misunderstood. It asked for the professions or occupations of the people who had been admitted. The answer was to the effect that the Department did not have this information. As this is such an important consideration in allowing those people to have permanent residence in Australia,I cannot believe thatthe Department does not have the information so I underline it to the Minister to see whether she can make another inquiry for me. 
 These 6Bills have now been brought  to  the second reading stage. They have a  long  history. Their subject matter has been thoroughly debated in this place. 
The public is aware of the whole history of it. Let me recount it very briefly. The States were imposing what have been known as receipts duties. The Western Australian Government was challenged by Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd, and that challenge was upheld by the High Court of Australia. Arising out of that, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised the Premiers that they would not lose revenue because of the invalidation of the Western Australian legislation. Legislation subsequently was brought before the Senate and it was rejected. 
We intend to oppose these Bills tonight because of what we believe has happened in this regard. Because of the Commonwealth starving the States of finance, this is just another area in which the States have been forced into their limited field of taxation in an effort to make both ends met. We have seen this happen in such fields as rates, water charges, amusement tax and transport tax. Because of the continual pressures on the States as a result of the centralisation of the raising of finance in Australia, they have been forced more and more into a very limited field. This was not a field in which they were particularly interested, whether in the form of receipts tax or anything else: but it was a field in which they could gather revenue to supplement their budgets. We suggested at the time that if this was necessary the Commonwealth should make these moneys available. When we suggested that in June, the Government would not accept the suggestion but it seems to me now that that is precisely what is happening. I do not know whether the constitutional lawyers would have a harvest on this but I invite honourable senators to look at 1 reference in the second reading speech of the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  He said: 
Business receipts during that period will be liable to duty under the Commonwealth legislation at the rate of  O.t  per cent, but this liability will not arise if the provisions of State laws - whether valid or invalid - are complied with. 
It seems to me that in some way all that we are saying is: Never mind whether the law is valid or invalid; so long as the citizens comply, this Act is going to operate. 
Another interesting point made in June by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was bis statement that the Commonwealth legisla tion must apply uniformly in all States and that there are innumerable differences in the detailed provisions of the existing legislation in each of the States. Queensland was paying a lower rate than was being paid in the other States, and evidently will continue to do so. But what seemed to be not possible in June will now become possible under this legislation. This legislation has a retrospective form, because ths period that we are covering has already passed. We are in some way validating - if that is not the wrong word - repayment to the States of money that citizens have paid, whether the legislation was valid or invalid, and this is to be continued for another 4 years. It seems to me that this is precisely what the Australian Labor Party said earlier would happen. 
The Commonwealth finds now that it has to repay this amount of money to the States, and it intends to continue to do so for the next 4 years. The States fixed an amount that they intended to raise or did raise over a period by the imposition of receipts duties. Now an estimate is to be made of what the States might have raised by receipts duties over the next 4 years, and the Commonwealth is saying that it will now reimburse the States to that extent. 
We have the situation now where the receipts duty legislation is again before the Senate, having been rejected previously. Some sort of agreement has been made between the Premiers and the Prime Minister or the Government and the net result, it seems to me, is that the States will have added to their normal reimbursement the amount of money which they estimate the receipts duties would have raised. This is another of those fields in which there has to be a complete review. The differences of opinion which come to the fore once a year are pretty well known, but those differences are forever simmering between the States and the Commonwealth. I agree that this is a very vexed situation. It is one which is not easy of solution but which must certainly be grappled with, particularly because of the uneven development between the States and various parts of the Commonwealth. The rate of expansion in Western Australia is twice the national average. The situation becomes complicated when a small Stale is expanding at twice the national average of all the other States, including the giants of New South Wales and Victoria. 1 do not think it is necessary to go over all the debate that we had last June. We merely say that it was a bad situation in Ihe first place. There are all sorts of worries about invalid taxes. This, 1 think, is an undesirable feature of bringing about extra payments from the Commonwealth to the States in this manner. To go into the matter further would be to re-hash much of the argument that we have had already. This is an issue which has had plenty of publicity and plenty of debate in this place. Anybody who is interested has had plenty of opportunity to study it. I content myself merely by saying that the Opposition will vole against this legislation as an indication to the Government that Commonwealth and State relationships should not be handled in this way. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the Second Schedule by reducing the vote - Division 310, Department of Housing, 56,314,000- by St - until a national inquiry is initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future; to identify the shortcomings of the building industry so that they may be quickly removed; to establish beyond doubt the priorities which should be observed in the provision of funds for housing; to overcome interest and deposit problems; and to provide land and housing at low cost by means of appropriate agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. 
As the debate has already taken place, I content myself with merely moving the formal motion. 
Request negatived. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Health 
Proposed expenditure, $36,328,000. 
 As has been said by way of interjection, what has happened is unfortunate. One member of the Democratic Labor Party and one member of the Liberal Party missed the division. From the evidence we have before us we would imagine that both those gentlemen would have voted against our proposition, therefore the will of the Senate would have been that our motion should have been defeated instead of being carried. If only one of the senators who missed the division had been present the Opposition motion would have still been defeated, because the rules of the Senate relating to an equal vote are such that we would have lost the vote. This is not the first lime that this sort of thing has happened. In fact, it seems to be seasonal because last year the same thing happened and we were defeated by misadventure.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson on that occasion allowed another vote to be carried on the voices, and we carried 2 motions that were pretty critical and trenchant of the Government. If we do not follow a similar course tonight, other methods could be adopted. We could allow the matter to go to the vote tomorrow or allow the estimates for the Department of Housing to be reconsidered at the end of the Bill. But I think this would be a clumsy way of overcoming the problem. 
We do not want to win voles by misadventure. We want to win votes by the will of the Senate. We believed in what we were doing when we moved our motion, and now that it is to come before us again it might underline to the Government and the DLP that what we moved tonight might, at another time in another atmosphere, be successful. So the Opposition will not oppose another vote being taken. We will not insist on a division because the result is clear to us now in the light of what has taken place. I am taking a leaf out of the book of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He did not insist on a division when something similar occurred last year. Earlier this year the boot was on the other foot and we granted something to the Government. In accordance with the precedent that has been taid down, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party I inform the Senate that we will not offer any resistance to the matter being reconsidered. 
-I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the Second Schedule by reducing the proposed expenditure by $10. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
That a select committee of the Senate should be appointed to inquire into and report on the uses of nuclear power in relation to: 
the projected power needs of the Commonwealth; 
the comparative advantage derived from generating power in this way as against all other sources now being employed; 
the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment; 
administrative procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a station to ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; and 
the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere. 
Australia is stepping into the nuclear era. By 'nuclear' I mean the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Some time ago it was thought that Cape Keraudren would be a good place for the use of a nuclear explosion to create a harbour on the extreme northern coast of Western Australia. When that project was abandoned the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Government moved quickly into the setting up of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay in the Australian Capital Territory. Since then a tremendous number of queries have been raised by a very large and powerful body of skilled people outside of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Honourable senators will note that the motion which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition seeks an inquiry into and a report on the use of nuclear power. The Opposition does not oppose the use of nuclear power. It appreciates that it is probably necessary for Australia in this age to move into the nuclear field. But the Opposition thinks that all Australians should be made aware of the tremendous step which the Government is taking. 
It was once said by  Dr Edward  Teller that in principle nuclear reactors are dangerous. He said that in his opinion nuclear reactors do not belong on the surface of the earth. Those were very strong words from a man who I, would imagine has probably done as much work on nuclear energy as an engineer and knows as much about it as anybody in the world today. Pressure will be applied on the Government from all sorts of areas. The first question which has been raised by the body of opinion to which I have referred which is honestly seeking to set Australia on a proper course is whether a nuclear project should be established at Jervis Bay which is right in the middle of a coal belt. Jervis Bay is right in the middle of an area in which fossilised fuel is available. Power from the Jervis Bay project will merely be fed into the New South Wales grid which is the biggest in Australia. On the other hand South Australia is battling for water and within the next quarter of a century at the most will have to move into some better form of water supply, possibly desalination. 
Australia is the driest continent on earth. Therefore we should be looking at whether it would be possible to combine the desalination of water with the generation of electricity. Anybody who has examined the question of the desalination of water will agree that it is a matter of economics. If one is in the middle of a desert one will pay anything for a gallon of desalinated water. However, when one is in an area in which one is not forced into such a situation the question of economics comes into it. Another aspect which has to be taken into consideration is whether Australia is running out of fossilised fuel. I understand that  President  Nixon has been warned that within possibly the next 100 years no more fossilised fuel will be available in the United States of America. Of course it is pointed out also that a similar thing was said in 1865. At that time a warning was issued that in one generation fossilised fuel could become so expensive as to injure the commercial life of the United States of America. Of course, we know that this has not happened. We know also from the tremendous discoveries of metals in Australia that nobody knows what is below the surface of the earth. 
The Opposition seeks in the first place a determination of the projected power needs of the Commonwealth. I have already referred to the fact that Australia is taking a very serious step in moving into the nuclear field, it should bc realised that some of the by-products of the nuclear energy process will not dissipate in less than 1,000 years. In other words, a tremendously dangerous element will have to be contained somewhere in Australia for at least 1,000 years before it will be rendered harmless. Other by-products will not take nearly that long to be harmless. Some will only take 10 years whilst others may take 200 or 500 years. One thousand years is a long time to have to wait until something is rendered harmless. It should be pointed out that more than just a small quantity of such a dangerous by-product is involved. The amount of this by-product which is buried will accumulate over the years. Professor Baxter, who is in charge of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has said that probably in the next 30 years - before the turn of the century - $5,000m will be spent on the development of nuclear power in Australia, In fairness to him I should make it clear that this amount will be spent not only by the Commonwealth but also by industry in Australia on the development of nuclear power. 
Two problems are involved. One is the tremendous seriousness of the step which Australia is about to take, and the dangers involved in the development of nuclear energy. The second is the question of the economics of the use of nuclear energy. If we are going to spend this amount of money over the next 30 years, which is not a long time in the history of a country, should we not be looking at the position very carefully in order to determine whether we are moving into the right type of reactor? The first thing which the Opposition seeks is an inquiry which will determine the projected power needs of the Commonwealth. The next thing it wants to know is the comparative advantage which will be derived from generating power in this way as against the other sources which are now being employed. At present Australia is exporting coal to Japan. This is a very profitable business for those who are involved in it. 
Some experts have said that the use of coal for the generation of electricity is a little bit like using aviation fuel in a motor car. It is said that this is a wasteful use of coal and that if there is a possibility of running out of coal in the next 100 years or so we should use it for more refined purposes than we are at present. I have already said that the availability of fossilised fuel in the United States was questioned about 100 years ago. This is another aspect which ought lo be the subject of inquiry. Many scientists in Australia and throughout the world have taken an interest in this subject but it has been a restrained interest in view of developments. The Opposition also seeks an inquiry into the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment. We are on the verge of something which wc do not know a lot about. The question of pollution, the question of a community burying itself in rubbish and the question of poisoning the atmosphere are things which, a few years ago, came within the province only of Jules Verne. In the past we read about such things in comic strips. Now they are very close to becoming a reality. The whole world has suddently realised the clangers that we face. Only recently President Nixon had presented to him a report which warned that within 10 years the cities of New York and Philadelphia would be uninhabitable unless something were done about the pollution problem. The situation is very serious. Probably that report, as much as anything else, has underlined and brought before the peoples of the world the danger of what we can do to ourselves by pollution. 
We in Australia are entering a nuclear era. but we know very little about nuclear power. We know enough to know that it can be extremely dangerous. We know, because of the findings of committees of enquiry, that lead insulation and this type of thing, which are to be used, are of extreme importance. A Labor Party committee, of which I am chairman, has been very worried about and has looked at this subject. People from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission have been very good and have helped us by discussing the subject with us. People from the 
Parliamentary Library, people with a neutral point of view, have put the economic side of the story to us. 
The nuclear station to be built at Jervis Bay could become a strategic target under extreme circumstances - for instance, during a bomb attack. If a bomb hit the station it would have the same effect as exploding a very large atomic bomb. The Government might say that such a possibility is remote, that we may not be attacked because we may not be at war. That may be so. But if we were at war and if a bomb hit it, it would have the same effect as exploding a large atomic bomb. The Government might say that if a bomb did hit the station it might bounce off the insulation. There is no doubt that, with a direct hit of sufficient magnitude, there would be a tremendous explosion in that area. It would be the equivalent of the force of a giant atomic bomb. Australia is moving not only into the era of the use of nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes but also into the era of a very real danger of a hit by a bomb, which would have the effect of an atomic bomb exploding there. 
The request lor amendment asks that a committee be appointed to inquire into the uses of nuclear power in relation to:  administrative procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a station lo ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; 
The word 'elsewhere' is used because in various countries - Canada, the United States of America and England - studies have been carried out. Many honourable senators who have been overseas have been able to look at the developmental stages of these stations. There is already an exchange of knowledge between the atomic energy commissions of America, Canada and other countries. Those commissions work under government regulations. Because of the tremendous seriousness of the situation, we say that there should be an opportunity at the governmental level and at the civil service level to examine those regulations. The civil service has to administer these commissions. The examination would reveal the experience gained from those parts of the world and we could see how we could adapt that to our situation. 
The final matter into which the committee should inquire is:  the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere. 
This is why we ask for the inquiry, lt has been put to us, as it frequently is in a technological field, that there are tremendous advantages in being last into the field. This is obvious. The reply to that is: How do we know when we are last? At what stage should we step into anything in the technological field? We have had arguments from both sides on this. We say that this should be queried. As I understand the situation, there are arguments going on. At the moment the Atomic Energy Commission has before it tenders from several parts of the world for the building of this station, ft has not yet let the tenders. I should say that it probably has, but it hits not told us. The question is whether the station should use natural uranium or enriched uranium. 1 do not want to go into too much technical detail because it has been very difficult, I assure the Committee, to get it down into laymans language. The discussions are al a stage where, as we understand it the Commission has to decide whether to use a fast breeder reactor, which is not yet at the fully developed stage. The Commission has to try to examine whether we should be the last in the technological race or whether it is appropriate to move into this field now. We say that these matters ought to be looked at. Maybe we should wait another few years to see the development of the fast breeder reactor or maybe we should move in at this stage. Because of the recent tremendous discoveries of uranium in Australia, there is a question as to whether that may tend to make us move towards the use of natural uranium. There is a question as to whether the experience of other countries should tend to make us move into the use of enriched uranium. Another question, which I mentioned at the outset is whether in a country such as Australia we should not be developing the economy. I do not hold that against the Government. I believe that we should take a punt. My criticism is that not enough has been done, particularly in the outback areas of Australia. Whether this is the time, whether this is the amount that ought to be spent, and the very important decision as to the type of reactor which will be used are questions that have to be answered. The type of reactor that we choose now will determine how the $5,000,n will be spent in the next 30 years. Water in Australia must always be in the minds of any government. The matter has been of tremendous importance to South Australia. That State will have to face up to the situation. There could be a shortage of water not for growing crops and not for watering cattle but for people in cities and towns. An examination should be made as to whether the 500 megawatt reactor that will be built at Jervis Bay is the correct size, whether smaller ones should be built or whether, in relation to the desalination of water, bigger ones should be integrated into the grid in South Australia and Victoria. With the tremendous developments in mining the question arises as to whether those developments might demand a smaller type reactor which would be of benefit to Australia, f do not want to deal with this subject much longer because of the reams of arguments that can be advanced on both sides. If T did develop the subject further, that could keep us here for much longer than we are prepared to stay. I want to say enough to suggest that an inquiry ought to be held. There is no denying that there is tremendous criticism from people outside the AAEC who are as qualified as people in the AAEC. They are querying what the Government is doing. There is a suggestion that there has been undue haste since the abandonment of the Cape Keraudren project. Some people think that Australia is just trying to get into the act. There is this body in information, some of it critical and some of it in praise of the Government. There is the experience that has been gained overseas so far, but those countries have not yet reached the ultimate. Because of that, we suggest very seriously to the Government that it has nothing to lose and everything to gain by the appointment of a committee. Finally 1 emphasise that the public cannot easily grasp these things. We represent the Australian public. We should be told these things. They should be put in laymans language. The Government should consult us in deciding this very important matter. This will be a very high cost structure. It will be a dangerous thing. Australia is moving into the threshold of the nuclear era. 
Has the Minister any idea of the number of cases involved between the date of the Worthing case and the passing of this legislation? Are any cases likely to be retried? Is there any case in which a person who has been tried and acquitted is likely to be brought to trial again. 
 I refer to clause 4 which reads in part: 
The provisions of the laws of a Stale as in force at a time (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) apply, or shall be deemed to have applied, in accordance with their tenor, at that time in and in relation to each place in that State that is or was a Commonwealth place at that time.  1 move: 
At end of sub-clause (1.) add: 
Provided that no criminal prosecution under the applied provisions of this Act shall be instituted after the date on which it receives the Royal Assent in respect of acts or omissions occuring before it receives that assent. 
All this amendment does is take away the effect of retrospectivity in the application of this Bill to criminal cases.I have stated the reasons for this amendment and do not need to repeat them. 
 The Bill before the Senate arises out of a the High Court decision in the Worthing case. It is fairly well known that  Mr Cyril  Worthing was employed at the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Richmond, which is a Commonwealth establishment, where he alleges he fell while working and was injured. He proceeded against his employers and the defence was that as it was a Commonwealth place and had been acquired by the Commonwealth, State law did not apply. He was proceeding under the Scaffolding and Lifts Act. The court having upheld that, it left a tremendous gap in the law. It meant that anybody working in any Commonwealth place, such as a customs house, post office, airport or Royal Australian Air Force station could not be proceeded against, or could not proceed, as  Mr Cyril  Worthing did, under the State law. I understand that legally there had been some doubts about this for years but the premise had been accepted that the State law did operate. 
The Commowealth had to do one of two things quickly because very obviously this gap could not be left in the law. The Commonwealth could have passed laws, brought down Acts, which would cover every individual case, but what it chose to do, and it certainly looks the best thing to do, was get the agreement of the States and put the principle quickly into operation and this is what this Bill does. Nobody could have any objection to the general principle of the Bill, but embodied in clause 4 are the words: 
The provisions of the laws of a State as iri force at the time (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) - 
This has the effect of giving retrospectivity to the provisions of this Bill. In Committee 1 will move on behalf of the Opposition an amendment to provide that this retrospectivity does not apply to criminal cases. If it applied to all cases  Mr Worthing  would be one of the people who would be affected. The principle in this amendment - I understand it is a general principle which is accepted in the general legal field - is that one should not go back before a certain date to make illegal something that was then legal. 
The High Court gave a legal right by its decision to  Mr Worthing  and other people in the same position as he. The Opposition believes a very sound principle could be broken and it could be dangerous to move back beyond a certain date and say: 'Before a certain date you did something which was legal; we are now going to say it was illegal. No matter how long ago you did it, whether I, 2 or 3 years, we are going to throw out the dragnet and bring you in'. I content myself with those comments because, apart from that, we have no opposition to the second reading of this Bill. It is well known that the Bill is to provide quickly a sewing up of the gap which has been created by the High Court decision. I understand cases are lining up in the courts to take advantage of the Worthing decision and this Bill is to put the position beyond all doubt as quickly as possible. The Opposition wants to give it a speedy passage, but we want to test the feeling of the Committee because we are uneasy about a situation which takes us back into retrospectivity. We propose to confine the measure so that it will not include the criminal field and I will move an amendment to that effect in the Committee stage. 
 Mr President,  might I add my remarks to the nice thoughts being expressed tonight. 1, with  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, thank you for your guidance and for the help given by the  Clerk  of the Senate and his staff throughout the year. The fact that we have rarely accepted your guidance makes no difference to our gratitude, lt is true that I have got on very well with  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin and even in view of my advancing age the reason is quite obvious. 1 want to thank the attendants, particularly the gentleman who sits in the broadcasting box off the chamber. Having some sort of technical background, I watch him very carefully. Very few of us realise what he does. Sometimes, though not often in this chamber, people raise their voices and if it were not for his quick thinking and knowledge of the electronic equipment which he operates their voices would be broadcast to the people in a very much less acceptable way than does happen. Obviously it is the Parliamentary Library people who make our speeches and the Hansard people who put them in such readable form. When at school I often used to marvel when reading Hansard - the only time I abandoned reading it was when I came into this place - at the wonderful speeches made by members of Parliament. lt was not until I came here that I realised why they were so wonderful. It is some solace to us that our words go down and that some young fellow at school is admiring our speeches. I hope that young fellow does not get off the track and do what I did - forget his studies and come here. 
I do not worry about the Press people playing noughts and crosses. The only worry 1 have is whether they get on to the doublecross. So long as they have some noughts among the crosses I think wc are pretty safe.  Mr President,  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, and I am sure every honourable senator, I particularly want to convey our thanks to the attendants in this chamber for their cheerfulness and their way of doing things for us when we are under pressure. They are a grand bunch of chaps. I marvel at the standard that has been maintained over the years. I notice a new face among the attendants from time to time but they all seem to fit into place with the others, with their cheerfulness and obliging manner. 
This makes life so much more pleasant. As you realise,  Mr President,  some honourable senators, although I am not one, have to go out and perform important duties to ascertain whether they will be with us in the next financial year. To some of them I wish good political health, but to all of them I wish good physical health, lt is early in the season but I ask you,  Sir, to  convey, on our behalf, the very best wishes for the festive season to those people who are employed in this place and to their wives, children and loved ones from whom we keep them away so very late at night. The Opposition always tries to get them home earlier, but it is sad that we do not always succeed. Thank you,  Mr President,  and thanks to the staff who have helped us. 
1 second the motion. I say on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that the late Field-Marshal Viscount Slim was one of the best of the overseas Governors-General in Australia. He was one of the last English Governors-General and was certainly one of the most outspoken. It was not. always that many of us liked to hear some of his outspoken remarks but he made them without fear or favour. It was only by studying his life in later years that I personally was able to obtain a different slant to this outspokenness. 
I remember that on one occasion while he was Governor-General of Australia I was in a group of people whom he told that he had been asked to inspect some people who wore uniforms and rode motor bikes. He said that after inspecting them - looking up and down their lines and examining the bikes - he had remarked: 'I thought that your uniforms had been used to clean your bikes but I changed my mind after I inspected the bikes.' To me, the inspection of guards is a pretty serious ceremonial. This type of humour and outspokenness was something which took some understanding. It was only after reading books about him, his life in Burma, his attitude as a soldier and his attitude since returning to England, that T have been able to accept some of this humour which, quite frankly, I found difficult to accept in those days. He was certainly a down-to-earth person with a very egalitarian manner. 
I think the phase of his character of which 1 am speaking came through clearly in his book 'Unofficial History', a volume of his World War I reminiscences, which told deprecatingly of his rise from private to corporal and his return to private. It is a gentle satire on ponderous official war histories, full of the dry, sardonic humour which helped him greatly in his duties in Canberra. At one point in the book  Sir William  remarked that Napolean never felt as Napoleonic as he did while in command of British forces in Mesopotamia. He then went on to record all the mistakes he had made. Yet Lord Slim later proved to be a highly competent general against the Japanese in Burma.  His  campaign there was described as a model of strategy and a triumph of leadership. He was a general who looked after his men and won their support. Men who fought under him apparently took to him because he never strutted, posed or played to the crowd. 
As  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has said, he came from the position of Chief of the Imperial General Staff to GovernorGeneral in Australia in 1.953 and stayed here until 1960. When he left in 1960 thousands of people fa re welled him at Canberra Airport. I believe this to be a tribute to his great personal popularity. As I have said he was one of the last of the English Governors-General of Australia and I think that he is certainly the best remembered of them. In supporting the motion the Australian Labor Party extends its sympathies to those members of his family who remain. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - I ask as a mark of respect to the late  Senator Ormonde  and the late Field-Marshal Viscount Slim that the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 
Sitting suspended from 3.38 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the newspaper 'TheWest Australian" recently negotiated the sale of the bulk of its 600,000 shares in television station TVW Ltd; if so, to whom werethe shares sold and what are the implications both  to  the buyer and seller in the transaction of that sale, in terms  of  the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
West Australian Newspapers Ltd has disposed of 575.000 of the 600,000 shares it held in TVW Ltd at the time  of  the takeover of West Australian Newspapers Ltd by the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd to 56 individual persons. Those who acquired 15.000 shares or more were as follows: 

<graphic href="047232197102160_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

As a result of the acquisition of shares as set out above, Tasmanian Television Ltd and the Mutual Life &amp; Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd have each acquired prescribed interests, within the meaning of Section 91 (2) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1969 in the licence for station TVW. There is no objection to the acquisition of such interests by these two companies as no contravention of the law is involved. At the same time, the sale of the 575,000 TVW shares and some other investments of West Australian Newspapers Ltd. rectified the contraventions of the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1969 by the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd, in respect of the licences for commercial television station TVW Perth, BTQ Brisbane. ADS Adelaide, which resulted from the take-over by that company of West Australian Newspapers Ltd. 
 It is very obvious from the closing remarks of  Senator Buttfield  that 2 questions have been introduced into the debate. The first is the question of intiation upon which the Government has been focusing attention in a very nebulous way, judging by the sketchy statement which was made tonight. The second is the question of pensions and the position of people on fixed incomes. As  Senator Murphy  has pointed out. we have experienced a steadily increasing inflationary trend throughout the world during the whole of our lifetime and probably during the lifetime of our fathers and mothers. Possibly the only exception was during the depression years. If one were to draw a graph of inflation over the last 50 to 100 years one would see the line steadily rising. On very few occasions would the line on the graph be steady or fall to any extent before rising again. 
We have built into the economy in the Western world, in particular, a system whereby people can look after themselves by way of profits or through the arbitration court. In Australia the trade union movement has been able to look after its members, to some degree, by appearing before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and making a very careful analysis of the economy and of price rises against demands. The people who have suffered are those who are not able to go before a controlled Arbitration Commission or to enter the uncontrolled business area to make profits. These people mainly are superannuitants and pensioners. This Government has been falling further and further behind in giving assistance to these 2 classes of people.  Senator Buttfield  referred to people on superannuation. People work for 50 years of their lives and pay into superannuation funds or, in the case of pensioners, pay taxation over a period of 50 years in order to receive something in return, not for 50 years but for a comparatively small number of years. The number of years may be none; it may rise to 15 or 16. 1 do not know what the average would be. It would probably be about 8 or 9. 
In view of what has been said tonight and the clamour that has arisen because of the offending of the national conscience since last August, it does not seem to be loo much to say that dignity ought to be given for that short period of people's lives. In the field of superannuation, there has not been a review in the case of Commonwealth employees for a period of nearly 4 years. The Government will not do something which could easily be done; that is, write an automatic adjustment provision into the relevant Act or, as is being done by some of the private companies, write in a fixed amount of increase over the years. The Government is not doing that for that section of fixed income earners, lt is also refusing to do something similar for the people who are affected far more seriously by this problem, namely, the pensioners who receive so much less. The Government's approach is inherent in the way this debate has gone on tonight. The approach is that a pension is something that a government in its great generosity hands out to people. The fact is that a pension is a prepaid right. People have prepaid their pensions in the form of their taxation payments over 50 years of work. A pension is not some sort of generous handout; it is a right that has already been earned over 50 or more years of work. 
What is civilisation? What are the things on which one judges how great a country is? I suggest that when one travels overseas and examines the situation in other countries, if one finds that they have a high infant mortality rate, a high disease rate, the hospitals and doctors are not somewhere near the optimum standard in looking after people or the poverty rate is very high, one regards them as uncivilised countries, lt is not on Rembrandts and that type of thing that one judges civilisation. One judges it on the way people treat their brothers, about whom Senate: Buttfield learnt at church today and from whom somehow or other she excludes the pen- stone* s. This is how we will be judged. If wc arc to judge ourselves, surely we ought to be looking at who are the poor people  in  the community.  Senator Buttfield  ranged very widely. She said that there were many needy people in the community, such as transport people. That is drawing a very long bow. The poor of Australia are in a very neat compartment. They are the aged, the invalid, the widowed, the sick and the members of very large families. That just abou: covers the people about whom we are talking - the needy people. When we talk of needy people we should think in terms of the things that affect the every day way of living and the things on which civilisation is judged. 
I come  now  to the challenge of inflation - a point about which  we  are talking and on which  Senator Buttfield  closed her speech. She referred to the problem of galloping inflation, whereas I referred previously  to  steady inflation. In the last 8 or 9 months the rate of inflation has jumped from about 3 per cent to about 8 per cent. That is what the panic is ail about at the moment. It is nor sufficient to do what this Government is doing; that is, to move into the government sector only and say: 'We do not intend  to  increase pensions'. I thought the closing remarks of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  were very ominous. They ought to be noted by everybody listening to this debate tonight. I made a note of them.  Her  words were that 50c - the amount of pension increase that was given in the Budget - was the maximum amount that could prudently be given. So much for the hope  of  a little budget or for pension increases before the Budget which will be introduced probably next August. 
By attacking only the Government  sector  not only win pensions be affected but those people working in the Public Service  will be  told: "You will not receive promotions. Recruitment will be stopped. You will not get overtime. There will be no staff replacements and travelling must be curtailed'. It the Government were administering the Public Service correctly  and  efficiently it would not be necessary to say this, because the Government should not employ more people than are necessary, overtime should not  be  worked unnecessarily and people should not be travelling the countryside unreasonably. Ultimately the Public Service must recruit staff, so this proposal is merely postponing that day. The Government says that overtime is nol to be worked before 30th June, but the work must be done at some stage. The Government is discriminating between the private and public sectors and those who work in the Public Service and are beholden to the Commonwealth Government will become the second eleven in the working community and pensioners will drag behind them. 
If the Government curtails expenditure in the Government sector we will reach the situation that Professor Galbraith referred to when he said that there could be private affluence and public squalor, because the public side of our community will run down. We have heard much in this chamber of  Mr Justice  Nimmo.  His  committee investigated medical costs. He estimated that in Australia there are one million people below the poverty line. During the last Budget debate many honourable senators suggested that more than one million people would be driven below the poverty line as a result of Budget proposals. It is now obvious that more than one million Australians are in that situation today. 
Earlier this evening  Senator Gair  pointed out that much was expected of  Mr Wentworth  when he became Minister for Social Serices but that it is now a different  Mr Wentworth  from the  Mr Wentworth  who spoke as a backbench member, lt has been pointed out during this debate that the spin to this vicious financial wheel was given in the last Budget. When the Government increased petrol prices it did not merely put up the price to the person who owns a car. The increased cost applied to everything that was carried in a petrol driven vehicle. Even pensioners have to pay this added cost on the articles they have had to purchase. When the Government increased telephone charges pensioners were affected because they had to pay more for telephone calls. Indirect taxation applies to pensioners the same as it does to low wage earners. 

 Senator Buttfield has referred to the middle income earner but as was pointed out when the Government provided a 10 per ecn: rebate in taxation it did not assist the low and middle income earners to the extern that it assisted upper middle and high income earners. This rebate was granted because of a rash election promise which the Government wanted to honour quickly It did not give the Taxation Office time to work out a proper curve and the 10 per cent flat rate of rebate was introduced. This is why the rebate granted totalled more than what the Government had promised prior to the election. 
Mention has been made of the 6 per cent increase which was granted in the national wage case. During its 20 years in office the Government has adopted a laissez faire approach to things. It has allowed a situation to develop where people believe that the moment there is a wage increase then ipso facto there will be a price increase. Never at any stage has this Government encouraged by way of legislation, influence or otherwise a method of overcoming this ipso facto approach. This is a technological age. Manufacturers should not say. 'The wage increase 1 have to pay has increased my costs by $X. I will divide that sum by the quantity of goods I sell and add a little more along the line.' lt was obvious following the last Budget that immediately the Government gave the green light by raising prices through increases in indirect taxation, the sellers of goods went in for their cut as well. Prices were increased not only because of indirect taxation increases but because a little bit was added by the sellers. lt has become increasingly obvious that the community was shocked by the last Budget, as taxpayers were not really to receive a handout and pensioners were to receive an increase of only a miserable 50 cents a week. 1 have been interested to hear figures cited here tonight. I have some sets o! figures of my own and it has been interesting to see how they differ from those cited by other speakers. The fact is that the pensioner is worse off today when his pension is compared to the average weekly wage. A study of the cost of living index shows that pensioners have been made remarkably worse off by the 50c a week increase granted in the last Budget. If the words of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  are to be taken as seriously as I took them to be, and the maximum pension that can prudently be paid is being paid, it is a living disgrace to this Govern ment. That situation is exacerbated by claims by Government supporters that we are in a situation where it has become necessary to grapple with inflation. That is even more disgraceful. 
There is no doubt that the terms of the motion emphasise what was said al the time of the last Budget nol only by the Australian Labor Party but by the people of Australia. The national conscience has been offended. There is no justification lor denying justice to these people who have already paid for their right to an adequate pension, lt is noi charity, as seems to be implied. These people paid during a lifetime of work for their right to a pension. Surely to goodness any government that wants to be judged by world standards ought to be ensuring that our pensioners can live out the remaining period of their lives and die with some dignity. 
 At the request of and on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition I move: 
Thai the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday, 23rd February, al 2.55 p.m.  1 do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The unwise and panic measures of the Government in dealing with the economy which are likely lii ::m&lt;&gt;c disruption, hardship and to damage the national interest.  1 believe the motion we have moved today really raises a matter of urgency. Sometimes when urgency motions are moved I wonder just how urgent they are. The basis for this urgency motion has had some publicity. lt is that over the last 10 years in Australia there has been an inflation rate of about  21  per cent. However, if the rate of increase in the December quarter of last year  -  1970  -  were to apply for a full year, the annual rate would be 7i per cent. This I suggest is indeed an urgent matter. Of  course,  that increase occurred in the period before the 6 per cent wage rise was granted. 
The worrying feature is that this will not be confined to one quarter or to 6 months. This rate of increase must be controlled. If it docs settle back it may not settle back to around the  2i  or 3 per cent to which the economy has grown fairly inured but instead it may settle down somewhere between the old rate and 7ยฑ per cent. Some of the economists have forecast that the figure will be about 6 per cent. I suggest if it does settle down at 6 per cent it will be the old story of the weak being hit very hard, the smart boys in the community getting away, with it, and businesses that are tied up in certain contracts being badly dealt with, lt will be a very undesirable state of affairs, particularly for our export markets. 
We have for a long time gone along on the very comfortable theory that a little bit of inflation is good. I cite the case of people who take out long term loans for houses. When their income is X they borrow a fixed amount of Y which is to be paid back over a long period of time. Though the X quantity improves, the Y quantity stays the same, lt is argued that this situation is good for those people. It creates a demand for labour and because of that businesses do well. The Government gets more tax because the bad aspects start to come in. Prices start to rise and, of course, wages follow the price rises. Because of all this it is said that those sort of people in our community are reasonably well looked after. 
This leaves the people about whom we hear so much and about whom we are so worried. I am pleased to note that the conscience of the Australian community is being aroused and the community is becoming concerned about people on fixed incomes such as those receiving superannuation payments and pensions. Superannuants are affected eventually because, if they commit the sin of living too long after they retire, this inflationary rate starts to catch up with them. Ex-government employees get some relief because an examination of their position is made from time to time, although not nearly frequently enough. And I do not agree with the method of reviewing their position. However, that is the way it is done and they are retrieved in some way. 
Those people in the private sector of the community who have not come under the modern system of superannuation obtain no relief. The modern system has something inbuilt against inflation to the tune of 3 per cent. The system is not very widely used yet but thank heaven it is starting to operate in the private sector. However people under that system receive only that amount of relief. Of course, as inflation goes on and on, governments are forced into such things as tapered means tests to bridge the gap between costs and the incomes of persons who receive only superannuation payments and pensions. Of course, the pensioners receive their increases by direct Government action. 
The base problem, in my view, has been the complete lack of system. I do not believe it is good enough for the superannuants to have their situation looked at whenever the Government thinks fit. It is about 3 years since it last did so, and a lot of people can suffer in that time. The same situation applies to pensions, T believe they should be tied to the inflationary situation so that increases are automatic instead of the pensioners having to go to the Government which may be either looking towards an election, coping with a lime of depression or simply trying to avoid the problem for some other reason that is best known to itself. 
Unfortunately the problem is masked fairly badly by 2 things, one of which is the 2 pay packet economy in our community and the other is hire purchase. Sometimes we might think that a person seems to be doing very well on a fairly low salary. Account is not taken of the fact that his wife is also working. So it is not only his effort that is going into the home at ali. Hire purchase also masks the situation at any given time. Sometimes the homes of these people who are on low incomes are not so much different from those of people who are getting 3 times the amount of money that they do'. Although the people on low incomes have all those accoutrements in their homes today - a television set and the rest of it - they have not yet paid for them. What they are doing is hiring them under this modern system known as hire purchase. So the socio-economic situation of families in Australia is masked by certain factors. This is nothing new. It has been occurring to an increasing extent since the end of the War. 
When we experience a sudden economic spurt such as that which occurred in the last quarter of last year, this comfortable theory no longer applies. The bad side of it is accentuated and the whole theory is destroyed. Unfortunately, the people who are hit worst are the weak people, those who are least able to absorb the blow. The people on fixed incomes are the ones who feel that lag quickest. If the pensioner is anticipating a rise in the economy of about  2i  per cent in a certain 12 months, he has to wait for that 12 months before he gets it and now he should get this  H  per cent rise in the economy. The same situation applies to superannuants. Those people on low wages particularly are feeling that lag. They are being hit over a shorter period much more drastically and viciously because the curve is not spread as it was before. 
However, some benefits do accrue. The Government benefits from these things. Because of the sudden rise in incomes it receives more taxation. For instance, last year average weekly earnings rose by S per cent while revenue from taxation rose by 12 per cent. When people quote figures which indicate that the cost of living went up by X per cent, and wages went up by X plus something, they think that they are better off. Of course, they are not because consideration has to be given to our taxation system, which has been criticised enough in this place. The moment they receive an increase in wages some of it is taken off by increased taxation. 
Some businesses do all right out of this situation. People engaged in the selling of commodities do very well. The smart boys who are operating on very fast turnovers with land and share deals do exceedingly well. But, of course, businesses which are trapped into fixed commitments and fixed contracts are faced with the-situation I was talking about a little while ago in reverse. Because they have a contract they have a responsibility and they have to live up to it. From what we have read from overseas it seems that that is precisely what happened in the world famous Rolls Royce case. A sudden spurt of inflation was carried on but the company had fixed contracts to live up to. 
These are some of the dangers that will arise in Australia unless the Government does very much better than it is doing at the present time. The economy has been allowed to deteriorate now for a very long time. The Government has taken the attitude of sitting and hoping, and possibly praying, that it just will not happen By shutting its eyes it hopes that these sudden bursts of inflation will go away, but of course they will not. Although nobody on the Government side likes to say so, thu signs today are at least as bad as they were "in the 1930s. In the J 930s- the depression days - we had the phenomenon of exceedingly low rural incomes and high interest rates. I suppose that the difference today is that We have the great mining boom, which has been the saviour up till now. Whether and, if so, to what degree the boom is being generated by a war economy is one of the worries in what is otherwise a very happy boom. 
During the depression we saw farmers walking off farms. Today the walk-off has just started, and it will accelerate. Let us look at the situation of the wool industry. Whenever one mentions wool to an Australian, he immediately knows what one is talking about, lt is not just woollen jumpers; it is the economy and our export earnings. Wool prices had already depreciated, and they depreciated a further 20 per cent last year. We have the worrying question whether we are overproducing not only in wool but in many of the other primary products, in the light of the markets that we have. 
If this is the situation and if all the inquiries and all the talks that have gone on have led to this situation, it is time a plan came down from the Government for making some sort of an orderly withdrawal from the rural industries. But so far we have waited in vain. I suppose that the debate is never ending as to whether the rapidly diminishing world demand for wool will fall to a point where wool will almost not be demanded at all. All of us in our lifetimes have seen many commodities, many forms of transport and many ways of life that we knew disappear and no longer be in demand. If that happens in the case of wool, it will only accentuate the validity of the few points I am putting before the Senate. 
During the depression we had high interest rates. Today we have the same feature. Interest rates should never have been pushed to the level to which they have been pushed by the Government. This was one of the policies which the Government, in its very confused thinking of last year, evidently thought would have some effect. The Government finds itself in a very difficult situation today in view of tha expansion of mining and the very undesirable tendency for the building of city office blocks to attract far more capital than housing. This demand for capital would appear lo me to create at least a tendency to keep the high interest rates where they are. 1 believe that we can lull ourselves into a false sense of security by thinking that mining will be a panacea for all our ills, because there is a tremendously heavy overseas investment in mining. The illfated Vernon Committee made a survey of the situation 5 years ahead and made a prediction on overseas company profits. The Committee made one mistake. It said that we would reach a certain situation in 5 years, but we reached it in 4 and a bit years. The figures show that in the year ended June 1965, 20.8 per cent of company profits went overseas. In the year ended June 1969 - only 4 years later - the proportion of company profits that went overseas was 29.7 per cent. That represented just about a 10 per cent increase. 
In addition, mines are particularly vulnerable to the cost squeeze. Although to a lesser degree, they can experience the same difficulties as those 1 mentioned in the case of the Rolls Royce company. They contract to do a certain job at a certain price, and they are pegged to that. Also, contracts do noi last forever. The mining contracts will have to be rewritten in the future. I suggest that when these contracts are being rewritten and the Japanese and other people are buying our raw materials the scene will be vastly different from what it was when they first entered into these contracts a few years ago, in view of the tremendous expansion in the countries concerned. 
Merely in passing, let me say that this rate of interest should never be related in any way to the rate of interest for housing. The Government tried to dismiss this argument some time ago, when the increases in housing interest rates were made, by saying: 'After all, this means only another SI a week'. That is the sort of thinking that has brought the Government to the situation in which it is today in the economic field. That sort of thinking is just not good enough. That sort of thinking says that as long as building is going on, whether it is of office blocks or anything else, it is all right. That sort of thinking, if it is projected even 12 months ahead, will obviously bring about social difficulties which in turn will create more difficulties for whoever is in power at that time. 
The Government ought to ask itself one question, namely: Whose inflation is it dealing with? It is not much good trying to blame Labor governments. It is not much good trying to say that these are Socialist theories on which we are now foundering. The Government has been in office for 21 years and in that period we have been in somewhat similar circumstances, lt made tremendous mistakes in the early 1950s. It also made the awful mistakes of the credit squeeze in the early 1960s. There has been no sustained effort. Recently we read that the prices of about 2,000 grocery items had been reduced. The very first thought I had was: How did the prices get up there in the first place? 
Then we have the Public Service cuts. As I see it, what the Government is saying to the Public Service is this: 'No overtime will be worked until after 30th June: travel has to be stopped; and there will not be replacements of staff'. If - I underline that word - the Government has been administering the Public Service at the optimum level of efficiency, these things should never have occurred in the first place. The Government should never have been putting on more staff than it needed. Public servants should not have been working more overtime than they needed to. The Government should not have had people running around the country if it was not absolutely necessary. 
On the other hand, if the Public Service was operating at the optimum level of efficiency, all the Government is doing now is delaying things until a time when they will cost more money. If certain work has to be done, it is not very much good saying: 'Let us put it off until after 30th June'. If a conference must be held, it is not very much good saying to people: 'Let us put it off until after 30th June and then you can travel to Perth, Hobart or wherever the conference is to be held'. This reminds me of an old saying that I used to hear when I was a child. I would say: 'I am sorry I did it', and my mother would always say: 'If you had not done it in the first place you would not have to be sorry now'. If the Public Service had been operating as efficiently as we had been led to believe, the Government would not have to do these things now. Similarly, if the vendors of the 2,000 grocery items had kept to what was a reasonable rate of profit, they would not now be in the situation of saying - and making a great gimmick out of it - that they will reduce their prices. 
Inflation is always a worry in a modern community; let me concede that, immediately. At a Press conference on 25th March last year - not quite 12 months ago -  Mr Gorton  finished up by saying that his desire was to have balanced growth and the avoidance of significant inflation for the foreseeable future. A point of interest is that even at that time the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  was warning that an inflationary trend was developing. He pointed out all the various reasons.- He said that there would be a tremendous increase in interest rates. He mentioned one or two other things. So there seemed to be a divergence not of economic thought but of political thought between 2 senior men in the Government. In spile of what  Mr Gorton  said, the Budget brought down last August was obviously inflationary. 
What always happens in these cases - it happened very markedly in the Budget - is that the weak become worse off. This is an inexorable law. This is the inexorable way things work when an inflationary situation is created and there are these sudden spurts. It is bad enough when inflation is controlled, although whether you ever control inflation I do not know. Again, it is bad enough when you can assess what the rate of inflation will be. It is worse when that cannot be done. Even at that stage the Government was not short of advice. 
No, I said that I did not know that the Government had ever really controlled inflation; but I do not want to be too specific about the word control'. I suppose that one can say that inflation is controlled if it is kept down to 2 or 3 per cent. I think that is acceptable rather than controlled. Doctor Hall of tha Australian National University wrote an article dealing with the Budget in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 25th August. The heading was : 'Slowdown at First; More Inflation Later. That is pretty definite. There are no doubts about it. In the final paragraph of the article  Dr Hall  said:  ti is probable that in terms of current economic diagnosis it contains "a serious error of judgment. Because it refuses to face up to the difficult problem of controlling inflation as an issue in its own right, it will contribute to an intensification of the structural distortions which are beginning to plague the economy. The reader is invited to draw his own conclusions about the quality Of the Government which has, produced this set of results. 
That was the immediate reaction. It was the reaction of the Treasurer before the Budget was brought down. It was in  Mr Gorton's  mind when he talked about this in March of that year. In 1964  -  that reminds me of my age, incidentally - in this chamber 1 moved an urgency motion on behalf of the Australian Labor Party relating to inflation existing at that time. Although those were not such worrying times, we were pointing out that inflation was too consistent and that the Government would face troubles sooner or later. lt is interesting to read some of the things that we said on that occasion. I want to mention them because I hope that the honourable senators opposite who reply in the debate do nol revert to the argument that was used on that occasion.  Mr Menzies  - 1 am sure all honourable senators remember him - was doing a broadcast on one occasion and with his usual modesty he headed a paper: 'Rising Prices - The Answer'. One of the things he said was: 
We propose to present to Parliament a Bill to impose an excess profits tax. 
Then he added: 
This is a novelty in time of peace. 
The novelty of the situation must have overcome the urgency of the situation because we still do not have an excess profits tax. 
It was 23rd September 1964. Although this is somewhat out of context let me mention that I dealt with several suggestions that the Govern ment might adopt. This is what [ said regarding price control: 
I am not suggesting that it is necessary or desirable to introduce price control as we knew it during the war. At that time full rate price control was justified. There could be no objection to the Commonwealth Government saying then that the people who were not in uniform had to make sacrifices. But for the Commonwealth Government., standing as it does on the edge of inflation, it is complete foolishness not to arm itself with the power lo impose price control to the extent considered necessary from time to time. Even the fact that the Government had armed itself, wilh this power would aci as a deterrent to the business community. 
In his reply the then Leader of the Government in the Senate said: 
The proposition before us clearly indicates to the people of Australia that the Opposition is still immersed in the financial policies and doctrines of the past. The Opposition has learned nothing from its years of defeat, lt clings with almost pathetic allegiance to the Socialist dogma of price control. 
I leave honourable senators to judge whether I. said that. That is why I say that if this debate is not serious then all of the utterances of the Prime Minister over the past few weeks are absolute nonsense. 
I do not know enough about the whole situation to answer that. 1 am not claiming, nor have L ever claimed, that price control is a panacea but I think that some of the things that I hope to mention - I do not think I will have time to do so if I continue to answer interjections - could make a contribution. We have often heard it said that inflation in other countries of the world is worse than it is here. That is not the answer. I am not worried about other countries of the world. 
-No. I am not referring to the honourable senator. This is what happened in the debate in 1964. We are told about other countries but we do not know the whole story of other countries. The Government has berated the trade union movement and has said that price control is an indirect kind of suggestion to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it should do this, that or something else about wages. The Government has done something about the public sector only in the part of the Public Service with which I have dealt already. 
What are the things that the Government not only can do now but could have done over the years? In  1964,  Mr Menzies  suggested that there should be an excess profits tax - I am not suggesting that he made the suggestion lightheartedly - and at that time the basic wage was  ยฃ7.2.0,  or S  14.20  in the present currency. Surely to goodness there is some argument for it now. I suggest that it would be better to have an excess profits tax than a flat rate of tax on high incomes. Surely there would be then a finer tuning of the economy to take off excess profits rather than allow the high profits to which we have become accustomed. On the matter of the wage freeze, the Government's pleas to business will not mean anything because the business community, by and large, has an inbuilt regard for and some benefits to get from increased prices. 
The Government already has passed a law in relation to restrictive trade practices. We mentioned that aspect in the previous debate. All I can say to the Government is this: 'Stop the shamming. Get moving into the field of collusive tendering by close combines because that is keeping up artificially the prices of all sorts of things in Australia.' I noticed the other day that  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner of Trade Practices, said that collusive tendering - I think it is called a 'trade arrangement' - is registered in private. These arrangements are supposed to be for the public good. If they are for the public good what are the companies worried about? Why do they not bring the arrangements into the open? 
I turn now to tax avoidance. There is a certain section of the community which gets tax cuts because the Government has written into the Act deductions for such things as advertising and has permitted the splitting and spreading of income - the old swindle sheet that we all know so well. The control of all of these things is within the Government's power. Surely the whole question of advertising could be looked at under the powers of the Commissioner of Taxation. The Government has no control over the amount of profit that can be made on internal trading on the Stock Exchange. Then there is the ipso facto system, as I mentioned the other night, by which we say: 'Wages have gone up by $X; prices will go up by $X.' There is no reason for that in a technological age. The Commonwealth Government should take a stand and try to break that nexus and the automatic acceptance of the situation. It has been done in other countries of the world. It should be done here. There could be encouragement in the way of research or perhaps by granting taxation concessions in certain areas - that would have to be examined - in an attempt to dispose of the psychology by which it is accepted that when wages go up prices must go up immediately. 
Hire purchase has sunk out of sight. If the Government took the power to control credit and sent those people, who at present are lining up at hire purchase offices for loans on which they pay exorbitant rates of interest and hidden charges, and suffer the heartbreak of losing the goods if they get into trouble, back to the legitimate banking system it would be attacking high costs in Australia with no detriment to the legitimate business community. As to price control, I merely repeat today that it is not something which can be done without taking additional action, but the other things that I have mentioned can be done without the necessity for additional action. The Government should arm itself with the necessary power to use as a threat - to have the power within its control. If the Government does not believe in price control but believes in laissez faire and believes that there should not be any restrictions, it does not have to use the power but the fact is that it would be a tremendous deterrent to those people who are doing the things which are pushing up prices in Australia. 
We have said in our statement of the matter of urgency that the measures which the Government has taken are unwise, that they will cause disruption and that the last position could easily be much worse than the first. In the fast moving economy of today I issue the warning that that could happen very much sooner than the Government expects. Because we have grown up over the past few years in a period of full employment I do not believe that a sudden twist of the wheel could not take us back to the situation of unemployment which was the classic remedy of the Liberals in the 1950s. They used to say that unemployment was a good thing, but even the Liberals have learned that although it would cure inflation for a short period they would not be in office to administer it. Neither would any other Government that allowed the situation to drift to that extent. 
The present sectional attack of the Government merely cuts down spending in the public sector whilst Government supporters aim their shafts and arrows at the trade union movement. That is a sectional attack. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out, finally the Government will damage the national economy. This must not happen. The Government could best control the situation by abandoning its past shiboleths and using the weapons I have mentioned. They are available at the Government's command. It is completely useless to attack one section of the community. I invite Government supporters to consider how much stronger the position of the Government would be in claiming that wages need to be controlled because they are the cause of all our troubles - which I completely deny - if it attacked the rest of the community and, for example, cleaned up the Stock Exchange. The Government would be in a much stronger position if it directed its attention to the excessive profits of companies and removed the anomalies in the present taxation system. I recommend to the Government that it at least try some of the moves I have outlined. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether in the name of commonsense and austerity the Government has given any consideration to holding future elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate on the one day? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe question that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition poses is one which we in the Senate have all had occasion to look at with some concern. I cannot give any definitive answer to the honourable senator's question because it is a matter of Government, policy as he would appreciate. In any event, I suspect there are some constitutional matters involved hut I think it is a fair question. We will ha/e to come to it in terms of debate sooner or later. For that reason I would like the question to go on notice to the Minister for the Interior. Then of course we will ' obtain a reply which will open up the . question for further debate. 
Is the Minister for Supply aware that cars which are ducoed black produce extreme discomfort for the occupants because they absorb much more heat than do cars ducoed a lighter colour? Is there any other reason why the Minister insists of having his Department's cars ducoed black? If not, will he give consideration to selecting another colour more in keeping with the Australian climate? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think it is a proper question, too. I have been told by people who should know that the drop in temperature in a sedan car with a white hood instead of a black one is of the order of 10 or 12 degrees. Perhaps it is even higher. This question of whether we should have some variation in the ducoing of pool cars has been raised before. I think that in certain circumstances in the Northern Territory or in South Australia I have given approval to certain people to have white ducoed vehicles. But the basic reason why we have all black cars is, first of all, to have uniformity. 
Because administratively it is considered to be easier. Secondly, certain parts of the fleet are used from time to time for VIP purposes and it has always been considered that a black sedan is far more VIP-ish than a white sedan. That is the basic reason for the choice of colour. T am always willing to look at particular circumstances, for instance in Western Australia, the Northern Territory or other areas where obviously it would be far more advantageous in the prevailing heat conditions to vary the rule. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
ask  for  leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
ls the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that no bus service to the city is presently provided for overseas passengers arriving at the Brisbane, Sydney, Perth and Darwin airports and that as a result incoming passengers are obliged to participate in an unseemly scramble for taxis and hire cars as soon as they clear customs? As all these passengers carry very costly tickets, will the Minister take steps to end this unfortunate situation? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Has Qantas Airways Ltd recently been refused permission 10 operate a trans-Pacific charter flight by the United Stales Civil Aeronautics Board? If so, what were the reasons' for the refusal? Does the Government propose any action to ensure that Qantas will be permitted to operate charter flights in the future? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories: Have extra permits been granted to Filipino workers to enable them to work On a road construction project in the New Guinea Highlands? If so, how many permits have been granted and on what grounds have they been granted? What steps had been taken previously to fill these positions with New Guinean workers? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, is the prawn trawler 'Mutiara  V  being held under order by fisheries, officers in Darwin? Is this the same trawler which was seized by fisheries officers for 3 days in Karumba in February without any reason being stated? Will the Minister now state the reasons for these 2 seizures? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What criteria does the Post Office use to determine which sporting results are given in the telephone sporting information service. 
Why it is that Hobart, Perth and Sydney are the only capitals not receiving a Totalisator Agency Board racing information service. 
The selection of sporting results featured in Post Office recorded telephone sporting information services is made with the objective of meetingthe requirements of the general public as far as practicable. Information concerning horse or greyhound racing is not included because it is considered more appropriate and satisfactory for totalizator or racing authorities to conduct their own telephone information services for this purpose. 
So far, the totalizator authorities in Perth and Sydney and the racing authority in Hobart have not established recorded telephone information services similar to those which are conducted privately by the totalizator authorities in Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide and Canberra. However, in the case of Perth the TAB authorities provide a personally answered service for race results, dividends, etc., which is listed on pages 390 and 391 of the current Western Australia telephone directory. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that the journal of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations called 'Parent and Citizen' satisfies the following criteria - 
it contains news and information of special interest to people in country areas and that the majority of its circulation goes to country areas; 
it is published by the Federation which is a registered charity in the State of New South Wales; 
it contains a substantial content of news and information regarding educational matters. 
Will the Postmaster-General therefore investigate the classification of the 'Parent and Citizen' for the purposes of bulk postage with a view to having it reclassified in category A. 
and (2) The postal classification of the registered periodical 'Parent and Citizen' has been carefully re-examined and it is considered that the journal cannot be placed in category A. 
A substantial part of the news and information in the publication is not of special interest to country people as distinct from city people as it contains information of common interest to people in all areas. 
There are various Commonwealth and Stale Acts referring to charitable organisations and registration under one Act does not automatically lead to registration under another Act. As far as the postal legislation is concerned, charitable organisations are considered to be those which devote a substantial and continuing effort to the relief of the poor and afflicted and has this as one of its principal objects. It is not considered that the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations meets this requirement. 
Educational organisations must have the dissemination of knowledge as their principal object to be eligible for category A. It is not considered that the Federation is an educational organisation in the generally accepted sense of the term in that it does not have a substantial degree of systematic or formalised education in its activities. 
asked the Minister  for  Supply upon notice: 
How many DC3 aircraft does the Department of Supply currently have in its possession. 
Are there any plans for the disposal of these aircraft and, if so,to whom and at what price. 
How many of these aircraft hold current airworthiness certificates. 
For those aircraft without such certificates what is the estimated cost of the maintenance work necessary to bring them to the standard required for the issue of a certificate. 
Six DC3 aircraft are currently held by Department of Supply for disposal. Five are ex-RAAF and are at the RAAF Station, Laverton. Victoria, and I ex-Bureau of Mineral Resources is at Fairbairn Airport. 
Tenders were invited publiclyfor 3 of the ex-RAAF aircraft but sales have not yet been effected. Tenders for the other 3 aircraft are expected to be invited shortly. 
Service aircraft do not operate under DCA Certificate of Airworthiness conditions butto Service standards. These aircraft have been removed from the RAAF register and would require work to be done onthem before being placed on either civil or military register. The ex-Bureau of Mineral Resources aircraft does have a current Certificate of Airworthiness which is due to expire in October 1971. Renewal of this Certificate would necessitate a major overhaul of the aircraft. 
The cost of bringing the ex-RAAF aircraft to Certificate of Airworthiness standard without change to their existing military configuration would vary with the circumstances of each case. An average cost of $15,000 per aircraft would not be unreasonable. 
1 refer to clause 7 and proposed new section 52 (3.), which reads: 
The  Minister  may  declare, by instrument in writing under his hand, that the last preceding sub-section  docs not  apply in relation to taxation under a specified  law  of  a  Stale or of a Territory of the Commonwealth.  1 move the following amendment: 
In proposed  new  section 52 (J.), leave out Minister may declare, by instrument in writing uncle i his  hand,',  insert 'regulations may provide'. 
If the amendment is agreed to, proposed new section 52 (3.) will read as follows: 
The regulations  may  provide that  thi  last  preceding  sub-section does not apply in  relation  to taxation  under a  specified law of a State or of a Territory  of  the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen reports that the United States division of Proctor and Gamble, the international soap and detergent manufacturers, has decided to reduce the organic phosphate content of their detergent products, and that this action has been taken because of the polluting effects of phosphates in effluent waters. 
What steps does the Minister propose to take to ensure that the phosphate content of detergents sold in Australia is substantially reduced. 
Yes. 
Legislation to control the phosphate content of detergents would be a matter for State governments, the Commonwealth's jurisdiction extending only to the Territories it administers. In 1968 the Conference of Commonwealth and State Health Ministers initiated action to effect a changeover from non-biodegradable to biodegradable detergents. Subsequently, the National Health and Medical Research Council negotiated a voluntary changeover with industry, to be effected by 31st December 1971. Council has considered the phosphate content of detergent and at present this matter is still under review. 
The Australian Labor Party supports this Bill, the purpose of which is to make some amendments to the Overseas Telecommunications Act. In 1946 all overseas telecommunications throughout the British Commonwealth were nationalised. They remain nationalised. It is a very profitable, and very efficient operation. Apart from a minor amendment, the Bill brings the financial arrangements between the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Government into line with those which operate in relation to similar bodies such as Trans-Australia Airlines, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and others. The commission's fixed assets are about $50m. Capital will be set up by transferring some accumulated profits into the capital fond. That will leave a balance of about $rOm. At the same time the Government will pay in an amount to bring up the capital to what is thought to be the required amount at the moment. The Bill provides that a dividend be paid each year on capital. The intended commencing rate is  H  per cent, although the PostmasterGeneral, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, may alter the rate from time to time. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  in her second reading speech, stated that initially the rate will be 71 per cent. It seems desirable that the financial relations between the Commission and the Government be regularised. 
A minor .amendment deals with personnel. This amendment will bring certain conditions of employment into conformity with conditions of employment in the Public Service. For the first time women will be able to be employed up to the age of 65. This provision operates already in the Public Service. The Commission will also be given the right to extend the service of an officer, male or female, who has attained the age of 65 years, for another year, taking the officer to the age of 66 years. 1 intend to move at the Committee stage an amendment similar to other amendments which have been accepted by the Senate. My proposed amendment deals with clause 7 which amends section 52 (3.). At the moment clause 7 reads: 
The Minister may declare, by instrument in writing under his hand . . . 
We intend to move that those words be deleted and that the following words be inserted in lieu thereof: 
The regulations may provide . . . 
This in no way is meant to denigrate the proposed section. It reads: 
(1.) The Commission is subject to taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth. (2.) Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, the Commission is not subject to taxation under a law of a State or of a Territory of the Commonwealth. (3.) The Minister may declare, by instrument in writing under his hand, that the last preceding sub-section does nol apply in relation to taxation under a specified law of a State or of a Territory of the Commonwealth. 
If our amendment is carried, subsection (3.) will read: 
The regulations may provide that the last preceding sub-section does nol apply in relation to taxation under a specified law of a State or of  a  territory of the Commonwealth. 
We must realise that the Commission deals not with internal telecommunications but with external telecommunications and that circumstances in many overseas countries are changing. One such country that comes readily to mind is Papua and New Guinea. Already the Government is heavily subsidising the Territory. The Commission is probably making a lot of money there. If the Territory decided that some kind of taxation should be imposed on the Commission, under the Bill the GovernorGeneral would have power to waive the provision that the Commission does not have to pay taxation. He could make it possible for the Commission to pay taxation. The rates of taxation imposed there are low. I think that it is desirable that that power be included, but undesirable that it be exercised by an 'instrument in writing'. If it is intended that this power be given, it should be under the scrutiny of parliament. This would be by way of regulation which would give the power of scrutiny to parliament. In the past similar amendments have met with general favour in the Senate. I suggest that the Senate may well adopt the amendment when we come to the Committee stage. Apart from those comments, we have no objections to the proposals put forward by the Government. lt is interesting to note the amazing difference that modern technology has made to the Commission. For the first few years it battled along making small profits. With the advent of modern technological advances such as the coaxial submarine cables and with the magic of satellites coming to the Commission's aid, its profits increased tremendously. That made it possible to make financial arrangements of the kind contemplated in the Bill much more easily than otherwise would have been the case. We support the Bill. In Committee I shall move the amendment that I have foreshadowed. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry a question. Has the Board of the Australian Industry Development Corporation appointed an auditor. If so, who has been appointed? 
Has the Minister for Health seen a report that tests carried out by the Melbourne scientific instrument firm of Varian Techtron Pty Ltd have shown that samples of canned tuna sold in Australia have shown a mercury content of up to 100 times the World Health Organisation recommended maximum level? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that these products are periodically tested and that the importation and sale of canned seafoods which constitute a danger to health are prohibited? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a report of a recent survey by the Royal Automobile Club of Western Australia of 600 new cars, still under warranty, of which number 216 were found to have potentially dangerous faults in their braking systems? Does the Minister propose to take any action to ensure that new cars sold to the public are of an acceptable standard of roadworthiness? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Do teachers in the Commonwealth teaching service who are posted to the Northern Territory and employed from 1st January often not receive their first pay cheque until March; if so, will the Minister take steps to have this delay eliminated, so as to alleviate the severe hardship and embarrassment caused by this lengthy delay in payment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister examined the possibility of allowing a section of Garden Island in Western Australia to be retained as a pleasure resort; if so, when will he be in a position to make an announcement. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI referred this question to my colleague the Minister for Defence who has provided the following information: 
The question of public access to Garden Island, Western Australia, both during construction and ultimate operation of the Naval Support Facility has been thoroughly examined.In developing a policy on the matter regard has been taken of requests received from private individuals and organisations concerning leases for holiday cottages, establishment of memorials, allocation of space for public recreation areas and matters relating to conservation. 
It has been decided that once the Facility is in operation general public access to Garden Island is not considered practicable having in mind safety, security and the need to safeguard the limited vegetation and the natural environment. Lessees  of  land are being permitted lo retain their leases consistent with the phased development of the project but, for the reasons stated eventually, all will be required to be vacated, either during construction or upon completion of the Facility. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Have any orders for the purchase of wheat been received this season from the Chinese Government? Has the Minister any comment on a recent Japanese report on the Chinese economy which stated that China will buy no wheat from Australia this year? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. On 17th February the previous Minister for Health claimed that banning cigarette advertising had no effect on the consumption of cigarettes. Does the new Minister agree with  that? If so. has he any idea why cigarette companies spend such large sums on advertising? 
 We have heard two different explanations of the inclusion of this averment clause. One came from the Minister who said, as 1 understood him, that it was included in order to be fair and so that everyone would have to pay the levy. Frankly, I could nol follow that argument.  Senator Milliner  agreed that we do not want some people 1o pay and others not. We do not want to pass a law like that. The defence offered by the two honourable senators who are lawyers.  Senator Withers  and  Senator Byrne,  is the classic defence. Of course, averments are lawyers" dreams, particularly lazy lawyers. If they can make averments it is much easier for them to prosecute or to handle a case. 
I said: 'Particularly lazy lawyers'. I did not say that you were particularly vehement in putting your view forward. 
1 see lazy politicians; I am looking right at one. We should always challenge the inclusion of averment provisions. Their inclusion has been challenged many times in this Parliament. It is true, as  Senator Byrne  said, that they have slipped through. He commented recently about having regulations and not instruments in writing. He said, quite correctly in my opinion, that he was worried about this piecemeal approach. I think he implied that that sort of thing should not be included in legislation. For that very good reason I suggest that averment provisions should be wiped out of all legislation. Surely, if you walk up to a person and say: 1 aver that you are 75 years of age and 1 am going to hold that against you in some way', it is simple for the person concerned to produce his birth certificate. He has that right and the fact is within his knowledge. That is something which should be within his knowledge only. I do not think people can go round getting people's birth certificates. 
I have not been convinced by the two honourable senators who supported the Minister, because they contradicted him. Those were not the reasons he gave for the inclusion of averment provisions. I am not convinced that this is such a simple matter. To use the words of  Senator Byrne,  I am not convinced that we should have averment provisions because they are a convenient method of administration. That is not sufficient reason. If we drafted all legislation with a view to having convenient methods of administration - all civil servants look for it - vastly different legislation would be passed in this place from that which we have examined so closely from time to time. If the averment is simply a matter of stating your name and age, that is one thing. In this case I do not believe it is so simple. If a matter comes to court, then the onus should be on the shoulders of the prosecution to say what levy or charge a person has to pay. Honourable senators on the Government side say it is easy for a person to prove that he did not sell a certain amount or that he should not have to pay a certain levy. I say it is just as simple and just as administratively convenient for the prosecution to have to deal with these matters. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Milliner. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General 1 refer him to Hansard of 15th March in which appears a question on television asked by  Senator McClelland.  In that question the honourable senator indicated that some Australian made television films, mainly 'Homicide' and Division 4', were being stockpiled. The suggestion was made that that procedure will be followed until September in order to obtain credits for Australian produced shows. I have been contacted today by the  Chairman  of the TV Make It Australian Committee, who suggested to me that our television industry is in a desperate position. I ask the Minister to treat this matter as urgent and to determine whether the suggestions made by  Senator McClelland  are factual before we decide in this Parliament on any further action to be taken. The Minister could thus help us to make up our minds. I am asking merely that the matter be treated as urgent because September is fast approaching and this is a serious matter for the television industry. 
I ask the Minister for Air whether it is a fact that all mainland units of the Royal Australian Air Force are being given a day's leave on Thursday, 8th April, to mark the 50th anniversary of the RAAF and in recognition of the extra work performed in connection with the celebrations? If this is so, are all members of the RAAF to receive the same treatment? If any are to be excluded can we be informed who they are and why they are being excluded? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate discussthe loss of wheat sales to China as a result of the attitude of the Government and the public statements of the Leader of the Country Party. 
 I ask the Minister for Health: As the Commonwealth Government recently attacked the 6 per cent increase granted in the national wage case as an inflationary and irresponsible action, will the Minister give an assurance that any increase in doctors' fees will be less than the 6 per cent level awarded in the national wage case? Further, will he assure the Senate that any increase in doctors' fees will be only as a result of searching independent arbitration? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the price of Queensland coal exported to Japan is lower than the price for similar coal bought by Japan from its other suppliers in 10 countries? Does the Minister regard this price as fair? If not, will he consider taking action similar to that of his predecessor in the case of the give away prices proposed for the export of iron ore to Japan from Western Australia? 
asked the Minister  for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
 Are overseas passengers arriving at the Bris bane, Sydney, Perth and Darwin Airports obliged to participate in an unseemly scramble for taxis and hire cars when they clear Customs, because no bus service is provided for them at these airports: If so, will steps be taken to end this unfortunate situation. 
 I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health, by referring to a report of an interview wilh the Minister published today in the 'Age' newspaper. This report stated that the Minister refused to give an undertaking that the present gap between the most common fee for normal general practitioner services and the rebate received by contributors to medical insurance funds would not be increased. J ask: In view of the fact that the then Prime Minister gave an election undertaking in 1969 that, this gap would be maintained "at 80c for a surgery visit and $1.20 for a home visit, will the Minister now give an assurance that this promise will be honoured and the gap will nol be widened during the term of this Government? 
In addressing a question to the Leader of the Government I ask him to recall that there stands referred to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee on Social Environment a whole series of questions. So far as I know that Committee has not elected a  chairman.  Therefore, as a matter of urgency, I ask the Minister to refer to the Committee for urgent study the problems of ships discharging waste off the coast of Australia, resulting in beach pollution and the destruction of fauna, and possibly to recommend a way of overcoming this problem. 
I am conscious of the fact that there may be some procedural things yet to be done before the Committee can function. To the extent that I have some responsibility in this matter and have failed to do what is needed I shall examine the matter this afternoon. I see no reason why the Committee should not now meet and elect a  chairman  and proceed with the matters that have been referred to it. It is for the Committee to decide which reference it will take first and what priority it will give to the matters to be dealt with. Certainly I shall draw to the Committee's attention the point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and in the first instance I shall discuss the matter with the Government representatives on the Committee, from whom the  chairman  will come. 
The import  of  the. urgency motion moved by  Senator Turnbull  is that it is in the best interests of Australia immediately to recognise the .People's Republic of China. Some umbrage has been taken at the use of the . word 'immediately'. I believe that  Senator' Turnbull  lias taken note of fast moving events in Asia today and has therefore used the word 'immediately'. I hope he does not believe that any negotiations undertaken with an Asian country, in which the oriental mind and the occidental mind attempt to come together, would produce results immediately. The Canadians spent about 22 or 23 months in the salami process. I suppose it is a little out of context to refer to a salami process in Asian affairs. I have in mind the salami procedure of slowly slicing away until finally a . new arrangement for recognition of the People's Republic of China was reached. 
It must be remembered that Canada was one of the countries looking towards the recognition of the People's Republic on 1st October.  Senator Little  clashed with  Senator Turnbull  about the various dates.  Senator Turnbull  pointed out that the October dates are interesting to both Chinese nations. The double tenth - 10th October - is important for the Taiwanese because it commemorates the fall of the Manchu dynasty in 1911. The 1st October is important to the People's Republic of China because it is the anniversary of the day on which it formed its Government. As  Senator Turnbull  rightly pointed out, the dates have some significance. 
I thought that  Senator Wright  made a speech that was unusual for him because it seemed to fly in the face of what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is saying in this field. In dealing with Asia today, and particularly the People's Republic of China, in looking back over thousands of years of history one can get into trouble because events are now moving very quickly there. I donot believe for a moment that the pace can be maintained in the field of immediate recognition and associated fields. But there are certainly breakthroughs, if I may use thatterm. There is urgency. There has been greater change there in. the last few weeks and months than has ever been seen there  before. During the period that most of the present members of this Parliament have been here great changes have occurred. Once we looked to the Communist world as a giant monolith. We did not envisage the present situation. I remember talking about 12 years ago, to a diplomat in Djakarta who forecast the separation of the great Communist giants, Russia and Mainland China.I did not believe him.I thought it was , wishful thinking. He pointed to 2,000 years of history, border clashes and the different attitudes of the 2 great giants. He said that they could not possibly agree and he was proved right in a very much shorter  period thanI would have anticipated. 
Turning to the European scene, people like Pompidou are travelling through Russia and the barriers are coming down between West Germany and East Germany. A thaw is starting between the United States of America and China. The Malaysian Tunku and Lee Kwan Yew of Singapore are starting to play golf together again. This is very significant in their relationships after all the bitterness that has passed between them. There has been bitterness between Indonesia and Singapore because of the hanging of 2 Indonesians in Singapore a couple of years ago. That bitterness is also thawing. These very important events must be noted. 
I marked  down  what  Senator Wright  said  as  a change in his attitude. He said that he wanted  to  welcome the People's Republic  of  China  to  the family  of  nations. Neither  Senator Wright  nor any other Government supporter would have said that when I came here in 1950. They have changed their attitudes. There have been tremendous changes, one  of  which is the' collapse  of  the alliance between Russia and China. That could not have been anticipated 12 years ago. A newspaper commented the other day that even though Russia had sent  an  ambassador  to  the People's Republic  of  China,  to  think that that would cement relations between them would  be  like asking the ReverendIan Paisley  to  take communion from thePope.    Only  a  few years  ago it  would have beep unheard  of,  but  it  has happened. , 
International affairs are a kaleidoscope  of  action. If one small colour changesa move takes place right across the spectrum. Japan is making another emergence  as a  giant. Obviously  it  will move in  to  become one  of  the giants, certainly in the economic sphere and perhaps even in the military sphere. Although they cling  to  the  old  constitution and the limitation  of  arms, there is no doubt that the Japanese  arc  looking around very much more. They have signed trade agreements with  Communist  China not greatly different from those  of  previous years,as I understand  it.  This factor must be taken into consideration as  it  will impinge  on  all Asian countries. Probably the most important influence  on  the psychology  of  the People's Republic  of  China and Asia is the withdrawal  of  the American presence from South East Asia. The giant  has  been sitting in this area. Whether  it  has been right is not the relevant argument. The relevant argument is  on  the effect  it has had on the  psychology of people in Asia. To some  it  may have seemed  to be a  protecting umbrella, but  not to the  People's Republic of China. 
The Prime Minister was taken  to  task for using 7 different expressions  to  describe China andI  am  frying  to  limit  my  terms. It is  easy to  refer  to  Taiwan and Communist China, but I understand that  the  People's Republic  of  China is the correct title. Obviously relations between Russia and China have  a  bearing  on  the psychology  of  Asia. This dropping  of  the guard, collapse of the wall or the bamboo curtain - whatever fancy term may be preferred - could easily be influenced by the fact that the other great giant, the United States of America, is starting to move out of this zone. We do not anticipate that it will ever move back, unless there is extreme pressure. In Australian politics the inclination has been to classify people as Communists or anti-Communists, goodies and baddies, and so on. As  Senator Turnbull  rightly pointed out, recognition does not mean that Australia approves of the type of government that has taken over in China. 
When a coup occurs in a country and there is a change of government, perhaps by revolution, generally the great powers of the world recognise the incoming government because it is in complete control. According to its lights it seeks to look after its people, to negotiate with other countries and to carry on foreign trade. For those reasons it is recognised. But this did not happen when the Communists took over mainland China and I think there were good reasons for that. It is one of the great countries of the world. As a result of World War TI it aready had a seat as a permanent member of the Security Council. They were the first people in the war. In fact if you examine China's history since 1927 and from the time Chiang Kai-shek took over, to the invasion by the Japanese and the subsequent fight against them with the allies you find that they have hardly been out of a war. Honourable senators will remember that China was at the great conferences which were held at places like Potsdam, Yalta and Quebec during the war. We must realise that 700 million people have accepted the Communist way. This Communist way has gone through many facets. The great leap forward which was the result of a great propaganda machine was, as I understand it, a great leap forward in the course of which they almost fell flat on their faces. Something which the western mind cannot grasp is called the 'cultural revolution' where young people were allowed to demonstrate on the streets but China found it had created a Frankenstein monster. Now we receive reports that the damage done by the cultural revolution probably was not as great as was at first thought. We must come up against another fact and that is that China is a member of the nuclear club. Obviously it is an uninvited and junior member. Maybe in the field of technology and nuclear science China is a reasonably inefficient member of the nuclear club but there is no doubt and no gainsaying that it has nuclear weapons. Today in all the moving kaleidoscope which we have to view this has some important considerations. 
What would be the attitude if we were recognising Red China or the People's Republic of China today? What would be the situation which we are worrying about? The worry was pointed out by  Senator Wright,  maybe with over-emphasis but certainly correctly to a degree. These people are making all sorts of noises about what their neighbours should be doing. They are standing on the old Communist cry that the only way to get world Communism is by insurrection in other countries of the world and that that need not necessarily be done by outside aggression. This is very true. But in their aggression they have some peculiar ways. I think they claim tha: they have never been outside the old celestial empire. The Indian attack which was suddenly broken off was peculiar. I thought the invasion and taking over of Tibet which they claim to be theirs was a terrible thing. I think we are seeing the genocide of the Tibetan people. There is no doubt that China is doing this,  'i  wc are worrying about this situation, what would be the situation if China recognised a country like Australia which is indigenous to this area? Would not a situation then arise in which we could apply more pressure at a diplomatic level in the first place? 1 think wc are inclined to underrate the tremendous diplomatic moves which have to be made in this area on the question of recognition. Do we not have a great leverage and a greater say if we are. able to apply pressure to China? 
My time is running out and I want to turn to the question of Taiwan because it has been mentioned. I hope this matter does not get out of context whatever the situation. I disagree with some of the comments  Senator Turnbull  made about the invasion when Chiang Kai-shek moved across to Taiwan. He said there was a great slaughter by Chiang Kai-shek troops. There was a great slaughter but the authorities under Chiang Kai-shek immediately stepped in and corrected the position by reprimanding in a severe way the general who was responsible. I do not defend these things. I merely say that I do not know that we will get very far if we go on tweedledee and tweedledum arguing who is right and who is wrong. After all, the 2- China question will finally be settled in a Chinese way by the Chinese people. I have said this enough times when speaking on Vietnam and such things. But while IS million or 14i million people of whom only 2 million came from the mainland in 1947 exist there is no suggestion as was put by  Senator Wright  that we will be handing them over to Communist control. I think the shame of our generation is that we have handed lots of people over to other people's control. But while there are those 14i million people they should be allowed to trade. They should have the same rights and privileges as others. They should have the same rights to the pursuit of happiness - to use an American phrase - as every other person in the world. 
The final analysis of this problem is going to be decided by the Chinese. For my own part I believe we have reached the situation in the United Nations, where no longer can one go on having a look at the very official side. If there are going to be 2 significant parts of a country which can speak effectively for that country then they ought to be heard in the councils of the world. There ought to be 2 Koreas, 2 Irelands and 2 Chinas in the United Nations. I emphasise that that situation will be worked out eventually by the Chinese on both sides of the Pascadores Because of that I do not think, as  Senator Turnbull  pointed out, that there is going to be a tremendous inevitability about this situation. Whatever our ideology, however much we orate and bang the table and say what ought to be done - how we would like to reshape the world from the events which are happening, point by point - we should take cognisance of the situation. We should move quietly into this area and recognise Communist China - or he People's Republic of China - as  Senator Turnbull  has suggested. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (2.31)  -  I must pay some acknowledgment to  Senator Willesee  as I have done on many occasions after he has entered into a debate on foreign affairs. The speech which he has just concluded is typical of the clear thinking in which he has engaged since my first memory of him in 1951. To me, his speech was an infinite relief after hearing some of the forensic speeches which have been made in the context of foreign affairs or allusions to that subject in the last 24 hours. I propose to deal with some of the points raised by  Senator Willesee  in a few moments. First, I must pay some acknowledgment to the mover of the resolution,  Senator Turnbull.  I say, I hope not unkindly, that by some peculiar coincidence last weekend in my fiat in Melbourne when I wanted some reading matter I reached for the bookshelves and took down the Voyages of Marco Polo. I thought that  Senator Turnbull's  contribution to the debate in the context of mainland China was very much in the same sort of mystical and amazing way in which Marco Polo described the China of his day in the thirteenth century, about 600 years ago. I do not think that any point made by  Senator Turnbull  has validity. Nor am I prepared to accept what, was said by  Senator Murphy  as being valid. But I am prepared to accept as valid a great deal of what  Senator Willesee  said. 
Some acknowledgment has to be paid, even in a condemnatory way, to the phrasing of the resolution moved by  Senator Turnbull  that we should 'immediately recognise'. Those words mean that the Senate is being asked to bring pressure of whatever nature is possible on the Government of Australia today immediately to recognise Red China. As  Senator Willesee  said it is not possible immediately to recognise Red China. China has to enter into some recognisance or undertakings before we exchange recognition by exchanging ambassadors.  Senator Murphy  telescoped the lesson of the last 20 years into an instant concept. It seems to me he made an attempt to persuade the Senate that nothing happened in the last 20 years and that it is all happening now. That is totally wrong. The reason why the western world or, if you like, the United States, other countries and certainly our own country have refused to recognise Red China - or the People's Republic of China - for the last 20 years Ls simply that before we exchange embassies or recogni- lion with another country three things have to be in existence. The first point is that one country wishes to accept recognition from another country, l.have never seen any evidence of the People's Republic of China wishing to accept recognition from Australia. The second point is that there cannot be comity in terms of acknowledgment and recognition between countries unless they are each willing to accept the normal comity expected between nations. In other words, some sort of stability must exist between the nations that wish to exchange acknowledgments and. to. have ambassadors sitting in each other's country. [ There is nothing in. . the . record of the last 20 years, of the. People's Republic of China that would give, any assurance to any government  of  Australia, whatever its view, that it was possible to obtain and' retain normal diplomatic relations, between 2 countries such as Australia and .the People's Republic  of  China. There are all sorts of reasons why China may not wish to enter into ' what is described as the comity of nations, but certainly from the point of view  of  some countries - Australia is one of them- the People's Republic of China through its 'Government has not, by any of its attitudes in the last 20 years, displayed any of the characteristics that would lead any nation' to" 'trust 'ft. Our own kinsmen in the United Kingdom were among the first in the last 20 years and after the Korean War to recognise the People's Republic of China, or Red China as it is sometimes called. The United Kingdom sent a legation to Peking, but the People's Republic of China did not even acknowledge its presence. For the last 20 years there has not been a United Kingdom ambassador in Peking. The United Kingdom representative has been sitting there as a charge d'affaires, unacknowledged and unaccepted for 20 years. The Government of India became so fearful of the chauvinism of the People's Republic of China that it entered into treaty arrangements with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. As  Senator Wright  mentioned this morning, the people of Burma are still alarmed at incursions of one sort or another. 
What  Senator Willesee  hinted at, if T heard him correctly, was that the Chinese people have been preoccupied by their own internal problems and that this has been exemplified by the historical point that he mentioned - the great leap forward. Certainly it is best exemplified by what is known as the Red Guard movement. With this turmoil of the Red Guard movement in China it was obvious that over the last 3 years the Government in Peking was barely in control of its own country. Therefore, it would not be very wise to try to exchange diplomatic' recognition" with a government which was not in control of its own country because it could not give any undertakings on behalf of its country.- If we "narrow the period down to 3 years we can say that until that time there existed none of . the circumstances in which one could expect 'a normal exchange of 'diplomatic civilities between 2 countries. ' 
The situation has now changed, probably for a reason that  Senator Willesee  was hinting at: Even if the honourable senator  did not hint at the reason, I shall state it. The reason that it is changing is probably that it feels more sure of itself in its internal government, that it is beginning to feel some sort of strength flowing into its own economic sinews. It has lost 'some - I do not put it stronger than that - of the suspicion that probably has "been existing in its collective mind over the last 20 years. We must bear- in mind, because of ' what has been said by various senators in this place from time to time about the United States of America, that in the roundabout way in which international relations are sometimes conducted for at least 10 years the United States has been in almost constant consultation with the Warsaw Embassy of the People's Republic of China. These consultations are known as the Warsaw conversations. Notwithstanding what has .Been said, there has been a quite strong line of communication between the Government of the United States of America and the Government in Peking, but there has been very little give by either side, one way or the other. It is not true to assert, for example, that  President  Nixon has recognised the People's Republic of China, any more than it can be said that the People's Republic of China has expressed any willingness to exchange some sort of understanding with the  President  of the United Stales of America. 
Notwithstanding this we must bear in mind the statement by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  on 6th April - all honourable senators have a copy of the statement - in which he said, as  Senator Willesee  mentioned, that one of the problems and objectives of the Government of mainland China at present appears to be the maintenance of the security of its borders. This can be acknowledged, although 1 sometimes wonder where the borders of the People's Republic of China really end. Maps produced in the last 10 years show that Mainland China extends its suzerainty to the ancient boundaries of the Chinese khans in the time of Marco Polo 700 years ago. So when the Minister refers to the maintenance of the security of its borders, I wonder what borders it is seeking to maintain. Also it seeks the incorporation of Taiwan, the removal where possible of what it regards as hostile influences in adjacent areas - this was remarked on by  Senator Willesee:  - and the establishment and maintenance there of governments responsive, if not subservient, to Peking. I do not think the Chinese people have lost these objectives.-  
The Minister went on then to refer to the establishment of a strong bargaining position with the 2 super powers, the United States of America and the USSR, and the rejection of their influence wherever possible. The only significant thing that the People's Republic of China has attempted to do is to establish a strong bargaining position with the 2 super powers. If she is to establish a strong bargaining position with the 2 super powers, what are the ways in which she can seek diplomatically to do so? The answer is very clear in my mind. The first step is on the one hand to weaken proposed areas of support that some parts of the world would accord to the USSR, and on the other hand to weaken support from various countries who owe some allegiance or support to the United States of America. In the final analysis this amounts to good diplomatic practice by the People's Republic of China. When one is involved in the problem of international relationships and diplomacy it is necessary to state one's position quite clearly. In the case of Australia we have to state our position quite clearly. 
It would be almost fatal in diplomatic exchanges for Australia at present to concede unilaterally because of strong international bargaining by the People's Republic of China positions which Australia would not wish to vacate under compulsion or persuasion at present. It is for this distinct reason that we have some initiative and some position of power and of influence. All of these things in the aggregate may not be very great, but they are important to the wellbeing of this country and to its future posture in the context of nations existing in South East Asia. Therefore I reject this motion out of hand because it requires a government to do something which I believe is totally impracticable in the first place, because it weakens any bargaining position that Australia may have, and because it fetters the Australian capacity for diplomatic initiatives and freedom. 
I acknowledge the existence of a thaw in diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. I . think .it is important that this thaw should be. acknowledged. Indeed it is acknowledged in the Parliament. But I have lived: long enough to witness a so-called thaw in the attitude of the Union of Soviet: Socialist  Republics in 1953 and the subsequent freezing that took place after  Mr Brezhnev  became the First Secretary of the Communist Party and to wonder what the attitude of the People's Republic of China will be in another 5 or 6 years when  Chairman  Mao, the present great Khan of China, goes to the heavenly kingdom, and  Mr Lin  Piao and another group of men who are mostly Army men who have themselves embedded in the matrix of power in the People's Republic of China take his place. Therefore I welcome the diplomatic initatives that perhaps lead to a thawing of the .relations between the People's Republic of China and the Western world. When I acknowledge that thaw I approach it with some caution lest the attitude re-freezes. Therefore, I reject the proposal. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether he has seen reports of the alleged beating up of a naval cadet during initiation ceremonies at HMAS 'Leeuwin'? Will the Minister undertake an investigation of the cadet training establishments of all three Services to discover whether initiation ceremonies, bastardisation or hazing are being practised in any of them? Should any such practices be discovered, will he take the strongest possible action to ensure that all such ceremonies are completely stamped out? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: In view of the financial problems facing Qantas Airways Ltd, will the Government reintroduce the sales tax exemption which was taken away from Qantas last October? If not, will the Minister make a clear statement as to why the denial of an exemption is to be continued since the Minister has said, firstly, that the exemption is worth $750,000 per annum and, secondly, that the exemption was not revoked at the request of any foreign airline operator? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have recent research results shown that dichlorvos', the active ingredient in 'pest strips', is extremely toxic and dangerous; if so, what steps has the Minister taken to restrict or prevent the sale of these items. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government given any consideration to holding future elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate on the one day to avoid the inconvenience and expense of separate elections. 
I am advised that permanent provision for the holding of such elections on the one day could only be effected by an amendment of the Constitution. My Government has not yet considered the matter. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I do so because I have had, in these few minutes, an opportunity to look quickly through the statement and it seems, to me to be of tremendous importance, lt deals with a matter about which there has been a lot of debate and controversy in the last year or two. I feel that the matter should be put on the notice paper so that we may debate it. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted. 
On any Paper being laid before the Senate, it shall be in order to move -  (1)  That it be read, and, if necessary, a day appointed for its consideration;  (2)  That it be printed. 
Would not either of those courses, particularly the former, be appropriate? That rather moves the onus onto the Opposition to take the initiative to have the matter debated. If the statement is made, a debate flows merely from the statement being made and the resumption of the  debate being made an order of the day for a later hour or for the next day of sitting. While this may be an appropriate standing order perhaps it is not the most prudent one to operate in the circumstances as a substitute for our former practice. 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
If the Opposition parties have a request to make, I have no doubt that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will arrange for an appropriate time for the debate. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a recent statement on the health hazards of cigarette smoking made by Professor Nossal, Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research? The statement is signed also by four of Professor Nossal's senior research colleagues. In view of the statement, will the Minister reconsider his refusal to ban cigarette advertising and to have cigarette packets labelled with health warnings? If he will not have these things done, will he name for the Senate the people who supply him with contrary advice and who presumably are of greater eminence and authority than 5 scientists of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute? 
As the Leader &gt;of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has pointed out, we oppose the times of sitting detailed in the proposal put forward by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  Firstly, over the years certain times have been, set down in this Parliament as a result' of very long standing practice. These times have been found to be the best for the parties and for the proper consideration of Bills. Although it is very easy to talk on Bills, the most important thing in any advocacy, whether it be that of a school teacher, a lawyer or an advocate in any other' walk of life, is not the delivery but the preparation. What is happening is that we are now getting a sort of inverse situation. When only one or two minor Bills have to be considered, we find that we have all the time in the world so that our party committees can look at them, seek evidence or information from interested people or those with skilled knowledge outside the Parliament, and have plenty of time to talk to these people and obtain their advice. But when we have this rush of legislation on the important Bills, as I say, quite, an inverse situation applies and quite insufficient time is available. 
The proposal put forward by the Leader of the Government shows a complete disregard for the practices of the Labor Party. It is proposed that the Senate sit next Tuesday morning. I am sure that it is well known to everybody in the Parliament that on each Tuesday morning the Labor Party conducts its first parliamentary meeting of the week. Our Executive meets to examine the Bills that were introduced in the previous week, our committees have some chance to look at these Bills, and our shadow Ministers make recommendations to the Executive. We usually meet from half -past 10 - sometimes it is 10 o'clock if we have a lot on the agenda - until 1 o'clock or even later to formulate recommendations to make to our general caucus either to support Bills, as we do in most cases, or, if we oppose them, to decide what amendments will be moved. The Government has shown a complete disregard to the position of those Opposition senators who are members of the Executive of my Party. They have to make up their minds as to whether they will be present at a meeting of the Executive or in the chamber.  I  suggest that a meeting of the Executive is just as important to the legislative programme of the Parliament as is a sitting of the Senate. The Opposition should be given an opportunity to examine each proposal which is put up by the Government. By not giving the Opposition this opportunity the Government is making a bit of a mockery of democracy. 
It is well known that the practice is being followed of delaying the introduction of legislation until the end of a session and then fixing  a  date by which it has to be considered by the Parliament. The date, set on this occasion is an artificial one. The Senate is apparently to adjourn on 6th May until 17th August. There is nothing magical about setting the date of 6th May instead of 13th May.  I  am sure that the general public will want to know why the Parliament will not take the opportunity of dealing in that period with the very important legislation which is on the noticepaper. 
 The committees are subordinate to the Parliament itself! I submit that the committees would not be hamstrung if one or two weeks were set aside during the period of time between May and August for the Parliament to debate the important legislation which is on the notice paper. The committees would still have plenty of time in which to sit. Most of the committees of the Parliament are Senate committees. If a little more thought had been given to this matter earlier it would have been quite easy, as  Senator Young  well knows, to have lifted the Senate for  a  week early in the session and to have had  a  week of committee sit tings. As  Senator Kennelly  pointed out in the previous debate, there was nothing very important for the Senate to deal with early in the session. In fact, we were almost twiddling our thumbs for quite a period of time. 
I notice that worker's compensation legislation has been introduced in the other place. I do not suppose that there -would be anything more fundamental to the interests of most people in Australia, particularly the working class, than worker's compensation. The Australian Labor Party has over a period of years been working on revising the worker's compensation legislation. My Party has a particular interest in this subject as it fought in the early stages for the introduction of legislation of this nature. The present legislation in Australia is in a state of tremendous disarray. We are miles behind the Western countries of the world in our compensation legislation. The Government has indicated that it may be prepared to accept some of the amendments which the Australian Labor Party will propose to the worker's compensation legislation that was recently introduced in the other place. It would appear that this legislation is now going, to be forced through the Senate in the dying stages of this session. This is only one example. 
It was said yesterday at a meeting of the Executive of my Party, that there were something like 18 or 19 Bills still to be debated in the other place. These Bills will then have to be introduced in the Senate. As I have already said, it suits the Establishment to hold up the introduction of Bills in the Parliament. I believe that if a strong Minister were to say to his Department prior to the beginning of a session: 'I want to introduce that Bill in the Parliament when it meets' he would be in a position to do so when the Parliament met. Surely a Minister would know what sort of legislation his Department would need to carry out the legislative programme of the Government? I believe that a Minister should say to his Department: 'I want you to have this legislation here in the first few weeks of the session so that I can have a look at it before introducing it in the Parliament and obtaining the view of the Parliament on it'. An opportunity should be given to the Opposition to put forward its views on the legislation and, if necessary, to seek to amend it. I repeat that it suits the Establishment and Ministers for the Parliament not to have time in which to properly examine legislation. It also suits the civil servants because they do not have to worry about being instructed to redraft legislation. 
The Government is trying to foretell what is going to happen. We got ourselves in a flap a couple of weeks ago and were going to sit ali hours of the night to discuss certain legislation, but we finished by getting up at about half-past nine. One cannot foretell exactly how things are going to be handled. There is no reason in the world why this sort of rush should occur. Let us have a look at the proposed programme of sitting. If it is accepted it will mean that honourable senators will have to commence, work at well before 9 o'clock each morning'. I do not know how honourable senators will be able to prepare their material "unless they start before this hour. The only.' morning the .Senate will not be sitting is on the Wednesday, which is when everybody has to attend his party meeting. The Australian Labor Party has an Executive meeting- and a Party meeting on Wednesday morning. These meetings generally start about 9 o'clock in the morning. 
No, not lately; not since we got rid of some people. The Party room has been a very orderly and much more progressive place since then. Honourable senators will be required to be in attendance in this chamber from 10 o'clock on most mornings until 11 o'clock at night, which is not a bad spread of hours. In addition, honourable senators will have their committee meetings to attend. By committee meetings I mean the intra-party meetings that are held as well as the caucus meetings. It is obvious that, if there is going to be a rush of legislation, more of these meetings will have to be held because more business has to be dealt with. It is a very unwise step to force through legislation at the end of a session. I think it brings the Parliament into contempt because nobody could be reasonably expected to sit in this chamber over a spread of 14 or IS hours and still intelligently discuss legislation at a late hour in the night. We know also that the standards which have been laid down are only the minimum standards. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out, a very important piece of legislation was gagged through this chamber last year at 7 o'clock in the morning. Do not let us kid ourselves - none of us has shown any extra intelligence. Some people might doubt the amount we started off with, but that intelligence certainly is not improved by sitting through until 5 o'clock, 6 o'clock, or 7 o'clock in the morning. It is unwise to do so. It is not conducive to good legislation. It certainly does not enhance the Parliament in the eyes of the intelligent people in the community who examine' the hours of sitting. 
 There is no point in keeping this matter on the notice paper. This statement was made in the early days of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I would like to comment favourably by saying that its  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, has kept the Senate very well informed of that Committee's activities. When the statement was made I thought that we should take note of it. At this stage there is no objection to putting the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The ministerial statement on the Publication of Commonwealth Act and Statutory Rules which we are discussing arose out of quite a long discussion we had during the proceedings of Estimates Com mittee B.  Senator Greenwood  and I, as well as almost every other member of the Committee, were concerned about the very problems  Senator Murphy  has been discussing. Some unsatisfactory results seem to have arisen. One result was that there seemed to be some reticence on the part of the Public Service to suggest that the position of the consolidated bound volumes was adequate. We pointed out that only a few days before when we received copies of a Bill from the Bills and Papers Office, we were actually handling 10 pieces of paper. We had a copy of the original Act and 9 separate amending Acts. In a fairly fast moving debate in the Committee stages it is very difficult if one has to shuffle 10 pieces of paper because if one wishes to quote a section of the original Act one can be 9 amendments out or any less number than nine. 

 Senator Wright did ' not" seem to think that that was important although I pointed out to him that in days gone by he was a great critic of this situation. I. suggest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)'  that  Senator Greenwood  took a great interest iri this subject matter. Indeed, when I moved to take note of the paper I consulted  Senator Greenwood.  "He 'asked me to take that course. If I had not done so he certainly would have. Whether we should put this motion tonight without" consulting  Senator Greenwood  is something I put back to the Government. I ani inclined to think that we should seek his views. A point which was raised during the Committee hearing was that the advisers seemed to think that the situation of the reprint of the enact: ment was adequate. Another point was that there seemed to. be some honest differences. Once we had overcome the point that the present . consolidation was not adequate there seemed to be a disagreement as to the most competent way to carry out the reprint.- One was to put it in bound copies, as was the practice with the 1950 Consolidated Acts or, secondly, that it could be done in a. sort of a running form, putting them into bound volumes but doing a sort of rotating analysis, compilation and consolidation of these Acts. The present system . is completely unsatisfactory; there is no doubt about that. I think this feeling .would be held by anyone who has come up against this problem. There do seem to be some genuine problems, and I would be inclined to put this matter to one side until we have heard  Senator Greenwood's  views on it. 
If the Minister accepts that proposal, I think that course should be followed. I make the further point  -  I hope the Minister takes it on board - that there is a lot of dissatisfaction and it may be that the Minister will have to have a radical look at the situation to ascertain the best way to bring these matters up to date.  Senator Murphy  has made a suggestion about Constitution printings, having in mind that the Minister receives notices and decisions, particularly High Court decisions, which are of tremendous value. After all, the Parliament makes the laws and the courts interpret them, and their interpretations become part of the law. So although it might be. very difficult to. arrange these things, they would be very valuable. The first point that I make, to which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson agreed, is that- we should not put the question on this matter at this time. The second point is that I hope that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, in his capacity as Leader of the Government, does realise that there is dissatisfaction and that there are some difficulties involved. I do. not think the difficulties should stop the Department from adopting a radical approach to determine a satisfactory proposition in relation to these things. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a copy of the speech made yesterday in another place by his Liberal Party colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)?  I ask the Minister whether he agrees with  Mr Cameron's  statement: 
I have every reason to believe that, more than a year ago, the Department of Civil Aviation projected that Qantas was headed for trouble. 
Will the Minister comply with  Mr Donald  Cameron's request to supply to Parliament a clear and detailed statement on Qantas' financial position? 
 There are 3 matters that I want to raise on the first reading of this Bill. Two relate to the Public Service Act. The third relates to the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme. I will speak firstly about the superannuation scheme and I will deal with the Act in 2 sections after that. On 16th February I asked the Minister representing the Treasurer this question: 
As the last review of superannuation paid to retired Commonwealth officers was in 1967, when will the next adjustments be made to combat the substantial loss of purchasing power which has occurred over the last 4 years. 
I reiterate that this question was asked on 16th February, which was a quite long time ago. I had expected to have an answer by now, even if the answer was only to say that the Government had no intention in the near future of examining the situation. Of course it would give me much more pleasure if the reply were that the Government was about to review the situation on this, that or some other date.  Mr Whitlam  asked this question in another place and in a different matter. He asked what representations the Treasurer had had and what was the nature of those representations. The Treasurer declined to answer because, he said, it was not his way to make public these representations to him, that he thought it put an undue burden on the Department to collect this information and that, therefore, no information would be forthcoming. 
The situation is that in schemes of superannuation right throughout the world, but certainly in Australia, we are brought up against this question of inflation. What is the purpose of a superannuation scheme? It is to give individuals an opportunity to contribute during their working lives to a scheme which will ensure that their standard of living does not drop too much after they retire. In the days before galloping inflation this did not present a very great problem in its administration, but today it does. Obviously, unless this situation is taken care of in one way or another there are several ways in which it can be done it will be quite useless to belong to a superannuation scheme. Under various superannuation schemes for private employees a growth rate is written in from the day on which a person retires. I understand that generally this works out at about 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent. In these schemes an examination is made over a period of what ought to be and this is put into the agreement when the employee comes into the service of the firm. 
The Commonwealth Public Service has been admitting the existence of this problem by looking at the situation after a period and saying that an individual retired when he was receiving a certain salary and that if he was still there today his salary would have increased and that therefore he would have been entitled to an additional amount. 
For my part, I do not believe that this is good enough. I believe that the Commonwealth should be moving to write into the Commonwealth superannuation scheme an automatic adjustment, such as I have mentioned that some of the private schemes are adopting today, because obviously a tremendous injustice is being done, even at present. Four years have gone by before a person's notional salary value has been adjusted and nothing has been done about it. We cannot get an indication from the Government as to when something might be done about it. 
I understand that retired officers of the Commonwealth Public Service are seeking from the Government some assurance that the Government will look at the situation at regular intervals, and I think I am right in saying that the suggestion is that it should be looked at every 2 years. It is a minor sort of agreement for which they are asking. There is nothing radical about that. They are not even asking for the automatic adjustments that are written into schemes in the private sector of the economy. I should mention that I am not the only one who is raising this matter. It has been mentioned from all sides of the Parliament. But I raise the matter now and ask whether, after  2i  months, I can have a reply to my question. That would be something. Secondly, I ask that this matter be taken to the Treasury and what I have said pointed out to the Treasury. I repeat that all parties represented in this Parliament have raised this matter. I ask that something be done about supplying an answer to my question and that a more urgent view be taken of this situation. These are people for whom the Commonwealth has a responsibility. Many of these people would have started working in the Public Service at about the age of 14 years and they have worked through to the age of 65 years. In their last remaining years they are entitled to be given at least some form of reward after the 50 years of service that they have given. 
I now turn to 2 other matters under the Public Service Act. I refer firstly to section 48(1.) of the Public Service Act which has a side note: 'Prior service reckoned as Commonwealth service.' The sub-section states: 
Where a person becomes an officer of the Commonwealth Service and his service in the Commonwealth Service is continuous with - 
service in a permanent capacity in the Naval, Military or Air Forces of the Commonwealth; 
This means that if a person moves immediately into the Public Service from the Navy, Military or Air Force, where he was a permanent officer, and does so without break, all the emoluments that he has built up carry on into the Commonwealth Public Service. Unfortunately, perhaps because the provision is not capable of interpretation in any other way, this is being interpreted by the Public Service Board in a way which presents difficulty for some people. If the provision is not capable of any other interpretation then quite clearly the Act needs to be amended. I have struck this situation before, but the case to which I now refer involves 6 telegraphists in Perth who had been permanent officers of the Commonwealth Public Service, who resigned and went immediately into the Services. I believe that they all went into the Royal Australian Navy. Certainly 5 of them entered the Navy - there is no disputing that - and the sixth one might have done so, although there may be some disputation about that. However, that does not alter the principle about which I am arguing. The day they left the Navy they went straight back into the Post Office where they had been formerly employed and they were immediately engaged. They did not serve 1 day in any other service. They did not go to work for the butcher, the baker or the candlestick maker. They immediately went back into the postal service. 
It was ruled that their service was not continuous because the day that they went back into the Post Office they were put on as temporary officers. This is where the rub comes. It is quite impossible for the Department to move without the Public Service Board and to make a permanent appointment. The only possible way that a person could have continuous service under this interpretation of the Act would be if, prior to leaving the Navy, he applied for appointment with the Public Service. I do not know what sort of problems that would create if a person were already  a  permanent member of the Navy and the Public Service Board were trying to make him a permanent member of the Public Service. I suggest that the spirit of the Act is being abrogated. In my view a reasonable interpretation of the Act would be that service would be continuous if a person moved from one arm of the Services back into the Public Service. If he had worked in some other capacity or in private industry it would be a different matter, but this did not happen in the case to which I refer. After it had been pointed out to me that the Public Service Board could not act otherwise because of the provisions of the Act I sent this letter to the Secretary of the Public Service Board: 
Thank you for your letter of 18th December (69/7013) dealing with the application of 6 telegraphists in Perth to have their military service recognised for seniority purposes. I write again to you because it seems to me that ii is  a  near impossibility for  a  person to leave the defence Services one day and obtain permanent employment in the Public Service the next 
I feel that the officers did all that was within their power by presenting themselves immediately to seek permanent appointment with the Commonwealth Public Service; the fact that they were not granted permanency that day was not possible because of the exigencies of the Public Service and not by any action of the applicants. 
It would be interesting to know the percentage of applicants under this category who have been able to meet the requirements of the Department in this regard. 
I should think that it should have been Board' rather than 'Department'. The letter continued: 
I appreciate that in  a  big service precedent does cause some problems in dealing with such cases as these. However in this case I believe  a  start should be made somewhere to overcome what appears to me without other evidence to be an almost impossible situation. 
I have been requested to take the matter up on a parliamentary level but I believe that if the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and his Commissioners could again review this situation the request by the telegraphists may even yet be granted. 
I did not receive a reply to that letter but I feel that the Board did not reply because it found itself in an impossible situation. I think I have said enough to indicate the problem. I ask the Minister to treat this as a matter of some urgency. It is not the only immediate case I have had drawn to my attention; in organisations as big as the Commonwealth Public Service these things arise day after day. I remain to be convinced that it is possible to take a narrow interpretation of this matter and still make it work. I suggest that if it be taken in the spirit in which it is meant, people who transfer from one service to another will be regarded as permanent employees. But not a lot is attached to it. It concerns such things as seniority. It does not involve any great wage rises or anything like that. It simply means that if a person says to the Commonwealth Public Service: T am going to do 6 years in the Navy and I may come back but I do not know', the Public Service says: 'OK. You do that and we will cut off your seniority.' That is a tremen dously important consideration after a person has served X years in the Public Service. 
The second matter I want to raise is concerned with the Public Service Act. It indicates that the various departments do not overhaul their Acts sufficiently. It may appear to be a very minor problem but it is of very great concern to the individual. I refer to section  48a  of the Commonwealth Public Service Act. The marginal note to that section reads: 'Status of Ministerial Private Secretaries.' Section  48a  reads: 
An officer seconded for duty as Private Secretary to a Minister or member of the Federal Executive Council or to the Leader of the Opposition in either House of the Parliament, shall, upon the termination of his employment in that capacity, be entitled to appointment to an office in the Commonwealth Service of such status and salary as are determined by the Board, having regard to the office held by the officer prior to his being seconded for such duty and to the period and nature of his employment as Private Secretary. 
This sounds quite reasonable but to me it seems strange that it excludes certain other positions which a permanent member of the Commonwealth Public Service may take up in this Parliament. For instance, if a person were a secretary to the  Speaker,  to the  President,  to myself or to a  deputy  on the Government side, if there were such an appointment - I think at one stage there was but it has dropped out of fashion in the last  2  or  3  years - that officer would not come under the terms of this section. It is a pretty innocuous sort of measure because it could be said that this sort of thing could be done anyway. My answer to that is that it could be done anyway in spite of this provision. So I suggest that either this section be deleted altogether and power be given to the Public Service Board - I do not agree that that course should be followed - or the whole matter be amended and brought up to date. I ask the Minister to treat the first matter I raised as very urgent and the second matter as urgent, and I would like him to look at the third matter in God's good time. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether the allegedly redundant Qantas Airways Ltd pilots have been invited to apply for positions in the Department of Civil Aviation as air traffic controllers? Can the Minister state what change in salaries would be involved? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Did  2  Commonwealth marine surveyors in Adelaide declare the vessel Hanna' unseaworthy and issue the ship with a temporary certificate of 60 days' duration in order that it might proceed, unladen, to a docking port for substantial repairs? Did the 'Hanna' then ignore the need for repairs and load a full cargo of ilmenite in Bunbury? Did the Bunbury harbour master then inspect the ship and declare it unseaworthy and have his opinion confirmed by another Commonwealth marine surveyor who travelled from Fremantle te inspect the ship? Did the Hanna' then obtain a clearance to allow it to leave Bunbury and did it subsequently sink in relatively fine weather conditions on 4th March 1971? Were the 'Hanna' and its cargo insured? If so, for what sum? Will the Minister conduct a full and open inquiry into the circumstances leading to the sinking of the 'Hanna'? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many officers of the Department of Immigration were stationed in Asia (excluding Turkey), Africa, North America, South America, Great Britain and Eire and Continental Europe (including Turkey and the Mediterranean area), during each of the past 5 years? 
 I think a lot of emotion is being aroused here tonight. A lot of false accusations have been made. At no stage during debates on this Bill, starting when  Mr Whitlam  spoke in another place, have we defended the type of thing that  Senator McManus  has raised tonight.  Mr Whitlam  made it very plain,  Senator Wheeldon  has reiterated it several times tonight,  Senator Murphy  has made it plain,  Senator James  McClelland made it plain in his maiden speech on this Bill and has interjected several times, that the type of offence that was committed against  Senator McManus's  office was a dastardly thing and it could have been handled by the law of the country, and in fact it was.  Mr Whitlam  made the point that he deplored the fact that bombs were thrown at embassies, and every member of the Australian Labor Party agreed with him. What we have said is that this matter started off as a political gimmick some time ago. It was tried in a State election. It was going to be tried in Federal election. What I have said right throughout is that there is no need for these clauses to be brought into being to handle cases such as throwing bombs at embassies or invading the premises of  Senator McManus. 

 Senator McManus leant very heavily towards the fact that he is a member of Parliament. That does not cut any ice with me. There are very few members of Parliament compared with the 12 million people in Australia. If the things that I understand were done in  Senator McManus's  office were in fact done, then every decent person in Australia condemns those things. To say that  Senator Wheeldon  does not condemn them is a complete travesty of the truth.  Senator Wheeldon  has taken the trouble - it is a thing that he does not usually do - to stand up and make a personal explanation to make it completely clear that what happened was something that he deplores and something which should have been handled by the normal laws of the country. 
The objection that we take in this is the same that we took many years ago. I am one of the few people in this Parliament who had to stand and fight when the Communist Party Dissolution Bill was introduced. Because of the title of that Bill we met with opprobrium for quite a few months, until finally we got the Australian people to agree with us. The whole crux of that Bill was that you could not have thought police in the community; you could not imagine what somebody was going to do. All of us at times think that somebody has ill designs towards us. From the way some people talk in this Parliament at times one would think that the next step was going to be violence, but it does not happen. In the community in which welive, until a crime is committed, then and only then can the law step-in. 
I was looking at the Crimes Act in this regard. Honourable senators have heard enough of it without my repeating it. It has been pointed out by  Senator Wheeldon, Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Murphy  that one cannot imagine what might happen, and this is what one would be doing if one says that there is going to be reasonable apprehension. Goodness me, some of the old people that come into this place have reasonable apprehension every day of the week that something might happen. There is always reasonable apprehension that inflation will take over, that there is going to be war, that the Russians are going to invade us. I have lived in reasonable apprehension in the years I have been in this Parliament. I make the point again that the law is completely adequate. As a matter of fact, some of the laws that the Government is trying to pass tonight are inferior to the present Commonwealth laws. 
The honourable senator should have a look at section 7a of the Crimes Act. It states: 
If any person - 
incites to, urges, aids or encourages; or 
prints or publishes any writing which incites to, urges, aids or encourages. the commission of offences against any law of the Commonwealth - 
That is, any law at all from the post and telegraph laws up - 
. shall be guilty of an offence. 
How can the Government say that these laws that it is bringing in tonight are not completely unnecessary. There are plenty of my colleagues to handle this debate and I did not think it was necessary for me to come into it earlier, but we are getting completely off the beam when accusations are made such as those levelled against  Senator Wheeldon  tonight. He has vehemently denied them, and in this place a denial is generally accepted, but evidently his denial is not accepted by  Senator McManus.  The fact is that we cannot have words such as 'reasonable apprehension' in the laws of this nation particularly when we have the Crimes Act which covers things such as that. If one incites, urges, aids, encourages or does anything at all against any Act of the Commonwealth one is guilty of an offence. Then why on earth should the Government be bringing in a law such as this? The throwing of bombs at embassies in Canberra, and the invasion of  Senator McManus'  office in the way we have heard from him tonight, or the invasion of anybody else's office, is to be condemned by everybody and dealt with as it was dealt with by the laws of the Commonwealth as they stand today. 
Idirect my ques  tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister seen reports of the forum organised by the Australian Postgraduate Federation in Medicine on the subject of Australia and the Asian Student', in which  Dr Bill  McCarthy, who is the world health authority consultant on medical education, described medical courses pursued by Asian students in Australia as 'inappropriate, inefficient and wasteful both of Asian talent and Australian money'? Will the Government urgently examine the claim in order to prevent this waste? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have any orders for the purchase of wheat been received this season from the Mainland China Government. 
Will the Minister comment on a recent Japanese report on the economy of Mainland China which stated that China will buy no wheat from Australia this year. 
I  ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories whether the Papua New Guinea Administration has cleared the way for public servants to buy shares in Bougainville Mining Ltd? Does the Minister regard the suggestion by the Administrator that public servants buying shares 'should keep the possibility of conflict of interest in mind' as being adequate to ensure that no such situation of conflict of interests involving public servants and the company will arise in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As the last review of superannuation paid to retired Commonwealth officers was in 1967, when will the next adjustments be made to combat the substantial loss of purchasing power which has occurred over the last 4 years. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government reviews regularly the levels of Commonwealth superannuation pensions paid to former employees of the Commonwealth or their beneficiaries. These reviews have resulted, over the years, in substantial increases in the employer component of these pensions. 
The position will again be reviewed during the formulation of the 1971-72 Budget. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen a report that tests carried out by the Melbourne scientific instrument firm of Varian Techtron have shown that samples of canned tuna sold in Australia have shown a mercury content of up to 100 times the World Health Organisation's recommended maximum level. 
Will the Minister take steps to ensure that these products are periodically tested and that the importation and sale of canned seafoods which constitute a danger to health are prohibited. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. In view of the deal between the Government and the doctors which was announced last Friday and by which general practitioners' consultation fees will rise by an average of 15 per cent, will the Minister, firstly, make public all the economic and other relevant information on which the negotiations and subsequent deals were based; and, secondly, give an assurance that there will bc no further rises in medical fees for at least 2 years? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories: Was a 9-year-old Papuan boy sentenced to 6 months gaol on each of 4 charges in the Port Moresby Children's Court last Friday, and did the magistrate direct that this 2-year sentence be served in Bomana Gaol as there is no reformatory for juvenile offenders? Will the Minister take immediate action to ensure that, firstly, this child will not be imprisoned for any period in a gaol where he might come into contact with adult criminals and, secondly, arrangements are made for the adequate accommodation and rehabilitation of juvenile offenders in the Territory? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did two Commonwealth marine surveyors in Adelaide declare the vessel Hanna unseaworthy and issue the ship with a temporary certificate of 60 days duration in order that it might proceed, unladen, to a docking port for substantial repairs; if so, did the Hanna then ignore the need for repairs and load a full cargo of ilmenite in Bunbury. 
Did the Bunbury Harbour Master then inspect the ship and declare it unseaworthy and have his opinion confirmed by another Commonwealth marine surveyor who travelled from Fremantle to inspect the ship. 
Did the Hanna obtain a clearance to leave Bunbury and did she subsequently sink in relatively fine weather conditions on 4th March 1971. 
Was the Hanna and its cargo insured; if so, for what sum. 
Will the Minister conduct a full and open inquiry into the circumstances leading to the sinking of the Hanna. 
This is a machinery Bill of which warning was given at the time of the Budget. It was pointed out in the Budget papers that it might become necessary to raise moneys to bridge a gap between anticipated expenditure for the year ending 30th June 1971 and what would later appear to be the final requirement. We appreciate that in August of last year when the Budget papers were prepared it was quite impossible to predict exactly income and expenditure 12 months ahead. A Budget is in some ways an estimate of what will happen. After it is brought down pressures are placed on the economy. This Bill does not authorise the spending of moneys in any way that has not been agreed to by this Parliament. 

 Senator Cotton, who introduced this Bill in the Senate on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  gave some details in his second reading speech of why this measure is necessary. He dealt with expenditure, the shortfall in loans and that type of thing. This is an internal machinery measure which allows for moneys to be raised until 30th June next and to be charged not against the Consolidated Revenue Fund but against the Loan Fund. Reference is made to defence purposes. I understand that one reason for that is that the raising of money for defence purposes for a specific object does not require the authority of the Loan Council. I repeat that we are not being asked to authorise expenditure on new works. We are asked to give authority for the raising of moneys, warning of which was given in the Budget papers last August. The Treasury is to be given authority to raise moneys internally up to, and only up to, the end of this financial year in order to bridge the gap between anticipated expenditure in August last and the amount of expenditure that is now expected in this financial year. A machinery Bill of this nature is not unusual. It is introduced each year and the Opposition offers no objection to it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry whether any inquiry has been made by any agency of the Commonwealth into the likely costs and benefits to Australia, as distinct from the Armco company, of the Jervis Bay steel works proposal. If not, will he have such an inquiry instituted as a matter of urgency? 
 Mr President,  very briefly I want to be associated with all those remarks which have been made. I do not want to mention each honourable senator by name because i have known them all over a fair number of years. You,  Sir, and Senator Bull  have had the honour and the duty of being the chairmen of this place. i suppose you have been the mam  chairman  and the first among equals. Today we. pay that respect to you, and also similar respect to  Senator Bull.  We all know that at times you have made mistakes. A person who never made a mistake never made anything. We all know exactly those times when you made mistakes. They were when you were arguing with any one of us. We knew you were wrong because, as an old parliamentarian used to say when I first came here: 'I may have my faults but I. am nevery wrong.* Throughout the years I have found that most parliamentarians are like that. 
I shall miss the forty-niners, because i was one of them myself. Amongst them was Dame Ivy Wedgwood, who is retiring, and 2 of my colleagues from Western Australia.  Senator Murphy  forgot to mention that  Senator Hendrickson  ls prior to that period. The only honourable senators now here who have sat in Opposition and as members of a Federal government are  Senator Hendrickson, Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. At the moment we have joint fathers of the House in  Senator Hendrickson  and  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. I ask honourable senators not to help me with what I am about to say because they will mess it up more than I will. One of those honourable senators is a female; so I suppose we could say that she is the mother of the House. But as she has her blessed . singleness, as I heard her explain on one occasion, this makes it even more complicated. I think all honourable senators know what I mean. The situation is that  Senator O'Byrne  will become the father of the House. It has taken him a long time to become the father of the House but that is his way. It took him a long time to become a father. I am sure he will carry out his new duties as father of the Senate as well as he carries out his duties to his 3 lovely children in Launceston. I wish all those honourable senators who are retiring good health. If one does not have health, then one does not have anything. 
I appreciate very much people like  Senator Jim  Toohey and  Senator Clem  Ridley whom we have not seen the best of in this chamber because they have had a great deal of ill health - very serious ill health. We could have lost both of them. But they have been spared to work on. I have appreciated their advice very much, I think more than the advice I have received from the other honourable senators about whom I am speaking today. One reads about American senators and their advisers. If I could have those 2 gentlemen advising me on some of the things I have to do I would indeed be a very grateful man. As I said, I shall not go through the names of all the honourable senators who are retiring. In regard to clashes of debate both within the Labor Party and without I can only quote Henry Lawson who, in The Last Review', wrote: 'If I have spoke a word in anger then I'm sorry for it now.' 
Now that we are getting towards the end of this debate I want to be very brief in my remarks. I thank  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for his tremendous knowledge of the history of the constitutional position which he has been outlining to us. I wish that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had the same knowledge of history as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has in this regard. I also wish that he would learn the lessons from it.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has told us that there was a parliament in which there was a 
Minister called Wentworth, and they cut off his head. If the Prime Minister learned that lesson he would start to improve his Ministry immediately without having to increase it. I hope that the lesson laid down by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will be taken up very seriously by the Prime Minister. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase by one the number of Ministers that  Mr McMahon  wants in his Ministry. We have said already that this is a cynical use of power. We do not believe that the need for this measure has arisen out of extra work. I do not want to go over that because I think it is pretty well known to the Australian people that that sums up the position fairly well. If the Government wants to cut down on some of the work that is done by the Prime Minister, senior Ministers and Premiers throughout Austraia, those people should stop going around opening baby shows and dog shows, and appearing at the local market simply because it seems to do them some good somewhere else, and concentrate on the work that they are paid to do. What they do is akin to the manager of a large store or a large office making the morning tea. He does not do it because his salary does not allow him to do things such as that. The salaries that we pay to the Prime Minister and to senior Ministers is to compensate them for carrying on the administration of this country and for doing the thinking and the hard work that is necessary. But every time ohe picks up a newspaper one reads that they are diving in the surf at Manly, posing in an aeroplane or in a kiddies swing, or patting some baby's head. There is no need for an additional Minister. The Government could very well dispose of two or three. I remember  Sir Robert  Menzies, in that colourful language of his, being very sarcastic about a lot of Ministers. I will not mention them because I might hurt the feelings of somebody who is occupying one of those positions today. Clearly this measure is not necessary. 
Let me turn now to a matter that is not covered by this Bill but which will be mentioned later. I refer to the proposal regarding assistant Ministers. In my memory, the appointment of assistant Ministers has been tried on 3 occasions and each time it has failed. There is only 1 Minister 
I can think of who, after 9 years as an assistant Minister, finally became a Minister. That is  Mr Swartz  in another place. The rest of them turned away in disgust. A person who is appointed an assistant Minister is not sworn in and does not have the powers of a Minister. All the Government is doing is appointing a senior clerk. It will get a much more efficient one by obtaining a trained person from the Public Service. 
Yes, and 1 do not argue with a lot of it.  Senator Condon  Byrne says that we should have 2 assistant Ministers, one of whom would assist a Minister who is a member of the Cabinet. Let us look at that proposition. The Minister concerned holds one portfolio, namely, that of Supply. How will he get somebody who is nothing more than a senior clerk, not even located in the administrative building, to assist him in that portfolio? Can he assist the Minister in the affairs of Cabinet? Of course not. They are top secret. How in the wide world can he assist the Minister in the running of the Senate which is the Ministers only other duty? 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack made 2 other points. One of them was that he had read that the all night sitting and the disgraceful exhibition that went on last week was caused by the Public Service. He said that he had read this but was not sure whether it was true. The Prime Minister has said that he will set up special machinery to examine the position. He has been here long enough, as we all have, to know exactly why this is done. Bills are held up until the final days of the sittings because it suits the Establishment, it suits the Public Service and it suits the Ministers. Even now we know that on 17th August the Budget will be brought down. For example, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  knows now whether there is to be an increase in social service benefits. He could instruct his Department tomorrow morning to start preparing material for the Bills, leaving the amounts blank. The draftsmanship and associated matters could be prepared, waiting for the passing of the Budget. 

 Ministers of State Bill 

The Government does not kid anybody when it says otherwise. Every Minister knows that he could order his public servants to start preparing now. He knows the Bills he will require and they could be presented in the first week of the parliamentary session. That position would apply in 98 per cent of cases, but not for emergency legislation that is required from time to time. When emergency legislation is presented, where is the great delay? A short while ago a tanker was spilling oil into the sea and we put a Bill through in a few hours to cover the situation. There was no problem then with draftsmanship or with getting the measure through both Houses. To say otherwise is just attempting to pull the wool over the eyes of people who do not know the true situation, if there is enough wool left in Australia to do so. It is as simple as that. 
Any government can have its legislation put through in orderly fashion if it wants that result. The truth is that the Government does not want that result. It was only because there was an uproar over last week's events that the chickens are coming home to roost on this occasion. I was completely unimpressed with the closing remarks of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack when he tried to upbraid the Australian Labor Party for its method of caucus deliberations. He tried to tell us that the Liberal and Country Parties are not bound by caucus decisions.  Mr President,  in the years that you have been here have you known of any occasion when a vote on a serious measure has been taken that the Liberal and Country Party members have not toed the line? Some honourable senators have flaunted their independence at times when we have been dealing with the Bull and Goat Act, the Chicken Act, or some measure which does not matter two hoots. In the past when the Government has presented serious legislation the Liberal Party has not worried about calling a caucus meeting.  Sir Robert  Menzies would walk down the corridor, flick his fingers, call the so-called rebels out into the passage and roll them as flat as a Persian rug. That was the end of that rebellion. 
One picks up information moving around the corridors. I know that when some members of the Liberal Party have 

 Ministers of State Bill 1 757 bucked in the party room they have been called a bunch of rats. Does this suggest that they have this glorious freedom that is demanded of members of other parties? The only way that a parliament or business can be run efficiently is for matters to be thrashed out firstly by small committees and finally by making a decision as to how it will appear to the public. That is true of business which passes through the Parliament or is conducted by any large organisation. The Liberal Party conducts its affairs in the same way as the ALP, and that will always be the case because it is the only effective way to operate. I am therefore not very interested in the sort of argument advanced by honourable senators opposite on a measure such as the one before us. 
The long debate on this Bill has surprised me. 1 did not think it would take so long. What has surprised me more is that most people have spoken against the Bill, including senators of the Liberal Party, Australian Democratic Labor Party and, of course, the Australian Labor Party. The difference is that the Australian Labor Party has spoken against the Bill and will vote against it. Members of the other 2 parties will not. 
 We are dealing with the motion for the second reading of Supply Bill (No.  1) 1971-72,  to which the Australian Labor Party has moved the following amendment, calling for an expression of opinion: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth are so inadequate as to constitute social injustice and is of the opinion, that unless the inadequacies are substantially remedied in the Budget,, it should be rejected'. 
We know that the Budget will be brought down within 3 months. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has moved that the proposed amendment be amended to read: but the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth should be reviewed in the next Budget. 
I intend to be brief. I wish to correct  Senator Gair  on one or two points he raised this afternoon, because they could lead to misapprehension. He did not deal very specifically with past events. Towards the end of his speech he said that  Senator Murphy  had moved an amendment on behalf of the ALP because of a newspaper article which stated that the DLP was pre-empting the Labor Party in manoeuvres in this place, and that type of thing. He also said that at no time had we tried to defeat the Budget, but had expressed pious resolutions. He used the term 'pious resolutions' several times. I do not wish to rely on my memory in quoting what has been said in the past, because I could make a mistake. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the Hansard report of 26th August  1970  which shows that  Senator Murphy  moved the following motion: at end of motion add -  and the Senate condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to schools, hospitals and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature.' 
I seconded the motion. That seemed to me to be very clear. We wanted the Budget rejected if that was possible. In my own speech in the Budget debate in 1970 I said: 
The Australian Labor Party has taken the unprecedented step of asking this Parliament to reject the Budget completely and to go to those people about whom  Senator Davidson  is worrying and to let them reply. This is the challenge that we throw down. In this place, above all, we have a motley group of people. We have an Independent. Let us see how independent he is. We have a Democratic Labor Party. Let us see how democratic its members are. We have dissidents on the Liberal side of the chamber. They are well known to everybody and from time to time vote against the Government on minor matters. Let these senators come forward now on a major issue and say what they believe in their hearts - that they are supporting a Government that has no right to govern, a Government which time and again, day after day, is proving its arrogance and cynicism towards the ordinary - person in the community. Let those honourable senators come forward and give  Senator Davidson  his answer to see who shall reply to the Budget. 
We challenge this Government. We have challenged it through  Mr Whitlam,  our leader, and we shall challenge it with every person who sits on this side of the Senate or on the Opposition side of the House of Representatives. If honourable senators believe that the Budget expresses the right fiscal policy, if they believe that the Government can cynically break the promise made in the Prime Minister's policy speech and the Governor-General's Speech by not reducing taxation on the lower incomes but increasing it - the reverse of what was promised - and if they believe that the Government can get away with this, their answer is very clear. 
I went on further to say that not only would we vote against the Budget papers being printed, because that would not be realistic, but also we would vote against every provision in the Budget. That is the way in which to defeat a Budget. If you knock out only one or two of the supporting Bills to the Budget, the Budget is defeated and there has to be an election. So I do not think that anybody gained the impression that  Senator Gair  was suggesting, that we did not try to knock back the Budget and that we did not take practical steps, as opposed to propaganda steps, to do so. I suggest that  Senator Gair  is wrong and that it is clear to any fair minded person who reads those quotations what the Australian Labor Party did in relation to the 1970 Budget, which was the most recent Budget. 
I note that the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill received a lot of prominence in Queensland during the last election campaign, and  Senator Gair  dealt with it at length in this chamber today. He kept reverting to the fact that we were trying to ride into power on. the backs of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and to take its ideas. When we were debating the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill I moved the following amendment on behalf of the Australian Labor Party: 
Leave out all words after 'That'- 
Those words were: 'the Bill be now read a second time'. Had that amendment been carried the Bill would have been defeated and that would have been the end of the matter; there would have been no increases in postal rates, particularly - the iniquitous rates about which we complained. The Government then would have had to introduce another Bill which would have provided for more equitable rates. We believed that the Bill which was introduced did not provide for equitable rates. My amendment continued:   . . insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office . from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. 
Later  Senator Gair  moved the following amendment: 
At end of motion add and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. 
Who was adopting whose words on that occasion? As regards this question of whether we were trying to pre-empt,  Senator Gair  must remember what happened very clearly because later on when dealing with  Senator Gair's  amendment, I said: 
If  Senator Gair  likes to bring his amendment up at any time- 
This was after he had moved an amendment to my amendment -  tomorrow if he wants to - I give my word that the Australian Labor Party will support him in asking for a committee of inquiry. It is quite simple. In the old words which  Senator Gair  will know  to  well: We have the numbers. It is the clearly expressed will of the Senate that we want to hold an inquiry into the future of the Post Office. 
I ask  Senator Gair  to withdraw his amendment now because we cannot support it in its present form and that means  it will  be defeated. That is not what he wants and it is not what we want for that amendment. Let us vote for or against the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, which would decide whether or not postal increases would go into effect.  Senator Gair'  could then introduce his amendment as a separate issue. He can bring it in tomorrow morning  if.  he wants to - certainly when wereturn the week after next - and the Australian Labor Party will support it. If he wants us to move it, we certainly will do so. We leave the matterentirely to him. It is not a question ofour trying, to pre-empt him, trying to gain kudos for anybzodyor anything of that sort. 
I quote that because that is the fact. This is what happened on that occasion. 
The walk out of which  Senator Gair,  speaks took place about 5 years ago. We are talking about what happened in 1970. At the last election  Senator Gair  never adverted to this at any time. He went throughout Queensland claiming that he bad voted against the increases in postal charges. He did not, and it is not true forhim to claim that he did. The facts are contained in the records of the Senate. The debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill took place on Wednesday, 30th September 1970. On 7 occasions  Senator Gair  voted in favour of the increases in postal charges. It is of no  use  for  Senator Gair  to try to yell and use that bluster for which he is so well known. It is dishonest for him to go throughout Queensland during an election campaign and claim that he voted against the increases in postal charges, because I have given the facts. On 7 occasions in a row he voted in favour of increased postal charges in Australia. 
Never mind which side I am on.  Senator Gair  claimed that he voted against these increases in postal charges, but he did not, and there is no way he can go around saying that he did. He had a lot to say this afternoon, but he was completely wrong and he has not been telling the truth before the Australian people. I have referred to the records of the Senate; I have quoted from them. They show that on 7 occasions  Senator Gair  voted for the increases in postal charges. There is just one final word I want to say because I have to go to another meeting which is trying to finalise a report to bring into the Senate. Honourable senators opposite laugh, but they have committed a question of privilege to the Senate Privileges Committee. If they do n ot want the Commitee to deal wih the question, tha is all right- 
If I misinterpreted the laughter, I did not misinterpret  Senator Gair,  and he is the person with whom I am dealing at the moment. He talked about pious resolutions. He said that the only thing that the Australian Labor Party did was to pass pious resolutions. Let me read to him the amendment which we have moved today. It is as follows: 
At the end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth are so inadequate as to constitute social injustice and is of the opinion that unless the inadequacies are substantially remedied in the Budget it should be rejected'. 

 Senator Gair has moved an amendment in which he suggests that social services should be reviewed in the next Budget. Whose is the pious resolution? 
To pursue the question I asked of the Minister for Civil Aviation, perhaps I could put the second part of it to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs because  Senator Cotton  did not advert to it. Did the Department of Foreign Affairs receive a diplomatic note from the United States Department on the subject I just asked  Senator Cotton  about? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation. Did the Department of Civil Aviation receive a letter from the United States State Department on 26th March concerning the operations of Qantas and United States air carriers? Did the Department of Foreign Affairs receive a diplomatic note from the United States State Department on the same subject? Will the Minister consider tabling both documents for scrutiny by the Senate? 
1 remember  Senator Buttfield's  raising this matter some years ago. She suggested that it should be referred to a woman. I remember agreeing with her at the time and saying that even a woman could do better than those who produce the present telephone directory. Honourable senators will notice that I looked around before saying that to see that there was no woman present in the Senate. However I hope this does not become a mountain out of a molehill. This matter is within the realms of the Postmaster-General's Department. If I were Postmaster-General I would put out an order using a word which I think is used by sub-editors today: 'Un-yuk this immediately'. The Senate should be very careful about the way in which it handles its own business. I think it is nearly time that the Senate started to un-yuk some of its own Standing Orders. For example, I wish somebody would un-yuk standing order 57. 
I think the Senate is making a mountain out of a molehill out of this proposal. I think the Postmaster-General's Department could carry out this function. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs: Did the Minister issue a statement this week denying that the United States Government had objected to the sale by Australia of sugar harvesters to Cuba? If so, can the Minister reconcile his statement with the reported statement of the US State Department's Press officer,  Mr Robert  McClosky, in which he said that the United States had made representations to the Australian Government about the sale? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories upon notice: 
Have entry permits been granted to Filipino workers to enable them to work on a road construction project in the New Guinea highlands; if so, how many permits have been granted, on what grounds were they granted and what steps had previously been taken to fill these positions with indigenous workers. 
I ask of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question which follows on a question asked by  Senator Rae  and also  Senator Laucke's  question on oil pollution. Could the Minister take up with the State authorities the possibility of demanding that ships be cleaned at the wharf before they put to sea? I have already asked that this matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment but it seems that it is becoming too urgent for that to be done. It is possible for the matter of ships being completely cleaned of bilge, oil, acid and all other rubbish before they put to sea to be dealt with as one of urgency? 
I move: 
That notice of motion No. 4 be withdrawn from the notice paper and brought back in the appropriate position on 17th August. 
We can put it on tomorrow if the Leader of the Government has any objection to my motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That notice of motion No. S be withdrawn from the notice paper and brought back in the appropriate position on 17th August. 
The reasons for notices of motion Nos 4 and 5 being treated like this is that the Leader of the Government has checked up and has found that there will be enough sitting days to enable the Senate to disallow the ordinance and the regulations when we return on 17th August. That is not so with the ordinances referred to in notices of motion Nos 1 and 2. As honourable senators know, if they had not been dealt with before the Senate adjourned the time in which they may be disallowed would have lapsed, and of course the Government did not want that. 
Of course. I always speak with that hanging over my head. In the case of notices of motion Nos 4 and 5 nothing will be lost because it is near the end of the sittings. I suggest that they be brought back on the notice paper on 17th August, at which time they may still be disallowed if the Senate so desires. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I shall be brief. I support what  Senator Wilkinson  has said. I do not have a lot to add to what he has said. I point out that simultaneously with considering the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill, and the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill which we passed on Friday, we have before us notice of motion No. 3 in the name of  Senator Murphy  who, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party has moved: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - Measures to alleviate the cost price squeeze on primary producers and to overcome the plight of the primary industries. 
We have had before us a lot of Bills, amendments and all sorts of things, because everybody is concerned about the position of the rural industries in Australia today. 
The Australian Labor Party has moved this motion because a standing committee has already been set up. We already have machinery in this Parliament to look at the position. If our motion were carried there would be nothing to prevent all the things which everybody has suggested today and which have been suggested on previous occasions from being referred to this committee. It has the advantage of speed, and if it finds a minute thing or something very big - what ever part of the spectrum it might be - it can make a recommendation to the Government immediately. But as  Senator Wilkinson  and, indeed,  Senator Prowse  have pointed out I am afraid the setting up of extra financial institutions will not necessarily provide the great speed that is needed today. I note that only last weekend the Minister for Trade and Industry,  (Mr Anthony)  issued a warning. He said that the Australian people did not realise how far the deterioration has gone in the wool industry. That bears out what  Senator Wilkinson  said in answering  Senator Kane.  He said it is not what is going to happen to farmers that will matter; but what is going to happen today. 
I come to the question of estate duty.  Senator Wilkinson  has pointed out what the Australian Labor Party did when the Estate Duty Assessment Bill was before the Senate. I do not like the section of the amendment which deals with estate duty, as proposed by the Democratic Labor Party, being attached to the motion for the second reading of a Bill dealing with primary industries. If we are going to deal with the estate duty, we ought to consider the position of all people who die. To me it seems a bit strange that, when we are dealing with farming Bills and farmers talk about people walking off properties, we should be worried about them leaving big estates and the Commonwealth Government taking tax from them. If the stories we hear are true - I am afraid some of them are - then we will have a situation where farmers will not leave big estates at all. 
When the Estate Duty Assessment Bill was being discussed we pointed out that people in the industrial field who may be building up small engineering factories may, in the event of a sudden death, find themselves in exactly the same situation as the farmers. It we look at a particular tax we should not confine our consideration to a section of the community. We should look at it as it applies to all sections of the community. We pointed out last year that if there was to be relief it should be relief to the small farmers and not the extremely wealthy farmers. When we look at the question of taxation - whether it be before a person dies or after - it should be locked at in the situation of those people who need taxation relief. Although cm 7th May last year in our amendment we pointed out that people were being bedevilled by the fact that there were 2 governments in the estate duty field nevertheless we suggested that the question should be looked at on a broad spectrum. 
I think that when we say 'but the Senate is of the opinion' we are probably treating the situation a little lightly. If we want to be regarded as being serious I think we should be very careful in the way we handle the situation. I think that if the Government on the eve of fixing the Budget looks at the debate which took place in regard to, the estate duty tax - I trust it does - it will see clearly the broad thoughts of honourable senators on all sides. If the Government in the Budget were to decide to retire from the estate duty field and to leave it to the States, I would be perfectly happy. I mentioned that when speaking on the matter on 7th May last. But I believe the position should be looked at. The Government should consider that duty with all its other taxation proposals. It should decide whether relief should be aimed specifically at the primary industries or whether the rest of the community should be placed in the same position. I believe this relief should be aimed at those people who are not leaving a great estate as against those who are. In other words the relief should be provided for the people who need it most. 
I repeat the words of  Senator Prowse  when he said that we all have sympathy with the thoughts that are expressed in the Democratic Labor Party amendment and in his foreshadowed amendment. Nobody is arguing about the parlous situation of the primary industries today. It is a question of what is the most expeditious way of dealing with the situation. Apart from its own bureaus the Government should call on the best advice to obtain a second opinion. We consider that the best way to do this is to utilise the standing committer which we have unanimously set up. It could also look into the latter field in which  Senator Prowse  is interested. I believe that if the Government - as I am sure it does - looks at the debates that take place, that will be sufficient for it to make up its mind when preparing the Budget which will be presented on 17th August. 
I will be brief. I do not want to repeat what I said this morning. So many airy-fairy things which are not the truth have been said that I want to quote from the record. The fact is that on 14th May last year the Australian Labor Party moved an amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. I suggest that it is during a debate on that type of Bill that we should be discussing the matters we are discussing now. On that occasion the Estate Duty Assessment Bill was aimed at assisting rural industries. It was one of a series of Bills that had been brought down to assist rural industries. Whilst agreeing that the Bill should be passed the Labor Party moved that the Senate express the opinion: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise: 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
That is the point that  Senator Wilkinson  made. If we have inflated prices and not real prices an injustice is done to farmers or to anybody else who has business interests. 
That is a very good interjection. It need not necessarily be the widow of a farmer; it could be the widow of anybody. Our amendment further stated - this is the part I want honourable senators to note particularly and the way some people voted on it: 
the particularly critical situation of: 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sector, 
We said - I would like  Senator Byrne  to listen to this because he said we were opposed to all sorts of things: 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the State; and 
Finally we moved that the Senate express the opinion: 
That these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act. 
That amendment, I would remind you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  was carried by this Senate, so we already have an expression of opinion in this regard. It is interesting to note the people who voted against that amendment. One of them was  Senator Wood,  one of them was  Senator Young  and one of them was  Senator Prowse. 
The honourable senator has been talking for a long time. I am trying to quote from the record because I have found lately that this is a pretty wise thing to do. 
If the honourable senator will wait I shall tell him how he voted a little later. The thing I would like to be noted from that amendment is that the Labor Party drew attention to the fact that estate duties were being bedevilled because both the Commonwealth and State Governments were in the field of death duties. We said that it might well be that this situation should be examined. I suggest that 'examination' is the right word when we are talking about taxation. If  Senator Prowse  had really wanted to jump onto a big bandwagon, I do not know why he did not move to do away with income tax for the farmers. That would be even more popular than the abolition of death duties. Of course, talk about doing away with taxation is always popular.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson pointed out at question time today that no matter whether the amount of tax be big or small, if we remove It from one section of the community, we must put it back on another section. 
Thanks for the assistance.  Senator Laucke  today dealt with the very crux of this matter when he said: I do not like this tax at all. I think it ought to be put onto the living'. That is a matter of opinion; I am not sure whether it is right. Further on in the debate on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill last year the Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment to the effect that the Commonwealth should retire from the field cif estate duty altogether.  Senator Prowse, Senator Wood  and  Senator Young  immediately supported this move. The moment it became obvious that such a move would benefit not only the small businessman and the small farmer but also the wealthy man they were all for it. This is what they did. It is of no use for them to argue about it because this is what the record shows. While they were dealing with people who could not afford to pay the duty they wanted to grind them down, but when the proposal was extended to benefit the wealthy they voted for it. This can be seen from the record of the Senate, lt is no good trying to wriggle around what I have said. 

 Senator Wood went a little further than saying that the Commonwealth should retire from the field of estate duty. I give him credit for taking his thinking a little further than did other members on his side. He said that the Commonwealth should move out of the field of estate duties but then he said that this would be no good - which quite obviously is true - because the States would say 'All right, here is another X million dollars we can pick up'. That would not help the wealthy, the poor farmer or anybody else in the community. The honourable senator took it a step further and said that as a corollary what ought to be done is that the States should retire from this field and that the Commonwealth should make up the amount of money they lose. But the moment that this happens it will involve a fairly large amount of money which will have to be raised by a levy being placed somewhere else. The reason why we say it ought to be examined is that a motion to this effect has already been carried by the Senate and it is already before the Government, if the Government takes any notice of the will of the Senate, which is half of this Parliament, and I believe that it does. It is nearing Budget time when all sorts of propositions for taxation relief will be put forward. For those reasons we believe that is where the matter should rest. 
The alleviation of taxation was an argument put forward on a previous occasion. The Australian Labor Party has said that the Government should alleviate taxes imposed on those people who can least afford to pay them and not the wealthy people in the community, whether they bo farmers or big business people in the cities. If there is to be an alleviation we on this side would insist that it be given to those people who are suffering, such as the widows to whom  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood referred, the person with a large family, the woman who is widowed by the untimely death of a young man who has not paid off his house and that type of person. When honourable senators on the other side come to comparisons 1 suggest that they should get off the bandwaggon of estate duties and do as we have suggested and as has been agreed to by this Senate. I ask the Government to take these matters into consideration with all the other requests which will be made from all sections of the community for the alleviation of taxation. 
The next business before the Senate concerns 3 tax Bills, 2 of which the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has taken to the second reading stage. Order of the day No. 6, which is the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971 and which is the third of the trio, is at the first reading stage. Might I suggest, with the concurrence of the Leader of the Government, that I move that Orders of the Day Nos 4 and 5 be stood over until the completion of the first reading of Order of the Day No. 6? We have one  speaker  who wishes to speak on the first reading of the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971. I suggest that we might take the 3 Bills together when we come back to Orders of the Day Nos 4 and 5. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of the results of the study by the Department of Labour and National Service of dental services in Australia which showed firstly a falling dentist to population ratio and, secondly, much less favourable provision of dental services in country regions than in metropolitan areas, what action is the Minister's Department taking to try to improve the situation? 
The comment which you just made,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  is very relevant because I had intended to speak on the third reading of the Bill, but as  Senator Greenwood  has made another very positive statement I just want to draw something to his attention. As I understand it,' he says that the action by Bourke's Melbourne Ltd in collaboration with the Australian Council of Trade Unions produced a situation which was of advantage only to themselves and that Dunlop Australia Ltd would still be maintaining resale price maintenance in other stores. That was not my impression and I wonder if the Minister may not be doing Dunlops an injustice. He says he has a lot of information before him. If I could give him a little more it might assist him in coming to another decision. In the 'Age' Of 19th March there is an article on the whole question of Bourke's store and a Press conference at which  Mr Dunshea  appeared. That article reads as follows: 
At the Press conference  Mr Dunshea  refused to say whether he thought resale price maintenance was harmful to the economy. 
I must admit I have been concerned about the small retailers. However, I believe this matter will sort itself out.' 
Asked whether the change in policy meant the end of resale price maintenance as far as Dunlop was concerned,  Mr Dunshea  replied: 'The policy which applies to Bourke's will apply to all other retailers.' 
As I heard the Minister, he does not seem to agree with that. As an injustice may be done I ask the Minister whether he will consider carefully all the information that is available from both sides. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to an article which appears on page 3 of this morning's 'Daily Telegraph' in which  Mr Les  Irwin, a member of the other place, has criticised the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, has described members of the Committee as grand inquisitors and an amateur court, has advised stockbrokers to appeal to the High Court against a decision of the Committee and has advised Australian stockbrokers to defy a request of the Committee? What effect does the Minister think that this will have on the Committee system which has been set up recently in this Parliament? Does he not agree that  Mr Irwin,  as a member of the Parliament, had many other avenues open to him within the parliamentary system - either approaching his own Party leaders or the  Chairman  of the Committee - rather than trying to thwart the Committee by giving this advice to the stockbrokers and making such trenchant and unwarranted criticism of the Committee? 
Firstly, I should say that it is not unknown for a member of the Parliament to speak outside his caucus, consortium or Party. Under the democratic processes which we operate and of which we are so proud  Mr Irwin  M.P. is free at any time to express a view. Coming to the question of the merit of his statement, the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange made a public statement yesterday in which he indicated what the requests of his Committee had been to the stockbrokers of the Commonwealth. He gave an explanation of the reason why the Committee wanted the information. It was required for the purpose of considering subject matters which are within the terms of reference of the Committee. As I understand it he also went on to say - and he made it abundantly clear - that it was a quantitative analysis which the Committee sought over a period which was originally 2 years but which was extended to 5 years. He also enlarged on the situation by stating that stockbrokers and, indeed, the various stock exchange organisations were going to be asked to participate in the gathering of this information - gathering it in such a way as would not reveal the identity of an individual company, firm or partnership or any individual income or profit and loss account. I thought the statement made by the  Chairman  of the Committee was a reasoned statement. If  Mr Irwin  or any other person - be he an honourable member or an honourable senator - wants to express a view he is entitled to do so. Heaven help us if he is not allowed to do that. As I say it is not unknown for a member to speak on matters of public interest outside his caucus. It has happened in other circumstances which are topical and current; someone has spoken not in their conclave but has chosen to use the Press to express a point of view. 
On 11th May I asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: 
When will the successful tenderer for the construction of the Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station and the date of commencement of construction be announced. 
Has the project been deferred; if so, for what reason and for how long. 
I asked the Minister whether he will ask the Department to treat this matter a little more urgently? This is a tremendously urgent matter on the fringe of nuclear development in Australia and I .should like an answer before we rise for three months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Does an inadequate situation exist at present with regard to the berthing of ships at Port Hedland. 
Will me Department of Shipping and Transport investigate the position at Port Hedland, giving particular attention to the contentious issue of priority in berthing. 
I ask the Minister for Air whether he can confirm that the Western Australian State Housing Commission home in Morrison Street, Swan View, Perth, reserved for Air Force personnel is currently vacant. Can he say whether the reason the previous Air Force tenant moved out of the house was because an Aboriginal family is now living in the house next door? Is the house being kept vacant of Air Force personnel because of the continuing presence of the Aboriginal family? Has the Air Force been informed bv the State Housing Commission that the Commission has a civilian tenant anxious to occupy the house if the Air Force refuses to make use of it? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How. many Chinese language speakers at each level of proficiency are currently working as officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Board of the Australian industry Dev elopment Corporation appointed an auditor; if so, whom? 
Yesterday 1 asked the Minister for Air a question about a house in Morrison Street, Swan View, Perth, used by the Royal Australian Air Force. In reply he stated that the house was no longer required and was to be handed back to the State Mousing Commission. I now ask the Minister whether he can say that the house has been relinquished because all Air Force personnel have been suitably housed and this particular house represents an excess of available accommodation over demand. The Assistant Manager of the State Housing Commission in Perth,  Mr Britton,  was reported in the 'Daily News' on 11th August as having said: 
. the Air Force won't pui a family in there because nf an Aboriginal family next door. 
Can the Minister say whether that reason is correct? If it is not correct, will he issue a statement denying what  Mr Britton  said? Finally, will the Minister say whether it is the policy of the RAAF to regard Aboriginal families as unsuitable neighbours for Air Force personnel? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that there are 72 questions directed to him and still unanswered on the notice papers of both chambers - more than for any other Minister? Can he say that the change of holder of this portfolio will result in a noticeable improvement? 
The answer is yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Papua New Guinea Administration cleared the way for public servants to buy shares in Bougainville Mining Ltd? 
Does the Minister regard the suggestion by the Administrator of the Territory of Capua New Guinea that public servants buying shares 'should keep the possibility of conflict of interest in mind' as being adequate to ensure that no such situation of conflict of interest involving public servants and the company will arise in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign  Affairs,  upon notice: 
When will the Government sign and ratify the United Nations Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, the adoption of which was supported by Australia in the United Nations General Assembly in 1966? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
has any meeting been held of the Commonwealth Study Group on South Atlantic and Indian Ocean Security which was set up at the 1971 Conference of Commonwealth Prime Ministers in Singapore; if not, when will the Study Group meet? 
Have any members withdrawn from the Study Group; if so, who and for what reason? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister issue a statement this week denying that the Government of the United States of America had objected to the sale by Australia of sugar harvesters to Cuba; if so, can the Minister reconcile his statement with the statement of the United States State Department Press Officer,  Mr Robert  McClosky, in which be is reported to have said that the United States had made representations to the Australian Government about the sale? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
When will the successful tenderer for the construction of the Jervis Bay nuclear power station and the date of commencement of construction be announced? 
Has the project been deferred; if so, for what reason and for how long? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon  notice: 
Is the Australian Post Office's main research laboratory studying the likely effects of huge coal dust clouds on the operation of the Maddern 
Plains repeater station which is a link in the main Sydney-Melbourne telecommunications system; if  so,  what are the origins of the coal dust clouds. 
Can action be taken to stop the coal dust clouds if there is any likelihood of damage to the equipment. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Do figures, recently released by the Australian Road Research Board, show that Commonwealth expenditure on roads has fallen from -85 per cent of the sum collected in fuel tax in 1963 to 73 per cent in 1969? 
Does the Minister agree with the prediction of the Board that the share of fuel tax to be spent on roads will fall well below its current level of 73 per cent. If so, is this trend the result of Government policy? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen the recent statement on the health hazards of smoking by Professor Nossal, the Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institution of Medical Research, which is also signed by four of his senior research colleagues; if so, will the Minister reconsider his decision not to ban cigarette advertising and lake action to have the labels of cigarette packets carry appropriate health hazard warnings or, will the Minister name those persons who supply him with contrary advice. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have seen the statement on the health hazards of smoking made recently by some membersof the staff of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research. The Government regards smoking as a major health problem and aims to educate the public in these dangers rather than to completely ban cigarette advertising. In view of the susceptibility of young people to television advertising, the Government recently initiated discussions to revise and extend the code governing the television advertising of cigarettes. These discussions have been completed and the revised and extended code will take effect from October 1st, 1971. The Government will introduce warning labels on cigarette packets sold in the Territories under its control when the State Governments agree to bring in similar measures in the various States of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action is the Department of Health taking to improve the situation of, (a) a falling dentisttopopulation ratio throughout Australia, and (b) a much less favourable provision of dental services in country regions than in metropolitan areas, in view of the results of the Department of Labour and National Service study of dental services in Australia. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The implementation of any measures considered necessary to remedy the effects of a falling dentisttopopulation ratio in the States of Australia and in country regions of those States, is a matter for determination by the respective State Governments. The Commonwealth's responsibilities in this field are confined to the mainland Territories of Australia. When releasing details of the study undertaken by his Department, the  Hon.  Phillip Lynch, M.P., Minister for Labour and National 
Service, indicated possible means of alleviating problems insofar as the availability of dental manpower is concerned. These include developments in the training of auxiliary personnel, for example dental therapists; wider adoption of the practice of fluoridation of water; and active encouragement of women to enter the dental profession. Measures such as those mentioned already introduced by the Commonwealth Government include fluoridation of the Canberra water supply and the training and employment of dental therapists in the Australian Capital Territory. 
1 think we should take another look at this question because, firstly, the moment one starts to think about this and listen to the arguments that have been put forward tonight one finds oneself becoming bedevilled with other standing orders that one has to face up to.  Senator Wright  was very vehement about what ought to be done. He made out a good argument in support of his case by saying that when you do not give notice the Government, which has extra responsibility in the House, has not the opportunity to consult departments in order to come up with the answers and it could be forced into a vote on which it could easily be defeated and so fall into conflict with the other House, and that type of thing. Let us assume for one moment that  Senator Wright  - this is not meant to be a pun - is right. If so, his proposal ought to be written into the Standing Orders, and all this business about adjourning to another day should be cut out. What  Senator Wright  has argued ought to be written into the Standing Orders. 
 That would not be difficult, because it is already written into the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives. In the House of Representatives the matter to be discussed is called a matter of public importance. It is the same thing; in fact, in the Caucus room it is referred to as an urgency motion. A member may propose to the  Speaker  that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, and that is all he has to do. The matter is then discussed. If somebody wanted to move that the question be put there would be no question to put. There is merely a matter under discussion. That is what  Senator Wright  is saying. I believe that he would agree with provision for that procedure being written into the Standing Orders of the Senate, but it is not written into our Standing Orders. The position was much worse before  Senator Turnbull  came into this chamber. There was a. coalition Government in office and an Opposition which consisted of only one Party. Very obviously the Government had the numbers and if the Opposition moved the gag it was not carried. 
It is only since we have had a fragmentation of this position in the Senate that the situation has arisen where the people who hold the balance of power, namely the Democratic Labor Party, have been able to say whether or not they want the gag to be applied. On rare occasions they have voted with us to apply the gag, but on most occasions they have voted with the Government. If we want to have the situation about which  Senator Wright  has been speaking, we have to amend the standing order completely by adopting something like the procedure in the House of Representatives. Sometimes people in. this Parliament think they are here forever and that this will be the situation forever. It will .not be. We are writing standing orders that I hope we do not have to go over again after the next election or at some other time. Matters such as those we are considering should go to the vote on every occasion or should not go to the vote on any occasion. We should not be placed in the situation where, because of the whim of some people, a vote is taken on one occasion and a vote is not taken on another occasion. 

 - Senator . Little used the word 'rubbish'. I think it is a reflection on himself because no man talks more rubbish than he does. What is rubbish? Of course it is the whim of some people. Of course it is the decision of some people. 
The honourable senator is the last person who ought to try to talk on a statesmanlike level, because he plays politics at a lower level than most other people. If the honourable senator does not mind, I want to try to put this on a fairly high plane. It should be remembered that we are trying to write something permanently into the standing order. This would be all right if we could stop at this point and say: 'All right. Let us do what  Senator Wright  says and let us write this in so that decisions cannot be taken at just any time. This protects the Government and carries out all those things to which  Senator Wright  referred'. 
The heading is Matter of Public Importance'. Standing order 107 states, in part, in referring to a member, and not a Minister: 
A member may propose lo the  Speaker  that a  definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion. 
Therefore there is no question that it has to be submitted to the House for discussion. If the  Speaker  approves, it goes forward. If you take it to that point, you can say that everything is all right. It is fine and dandy. You can say: 'We can stop here, it protects the situation that  Senator Wright  wants.' As I said at the outset, if you turn to the other sections of the Standing Orders you will see that this could be subverted by moving that the Standing Orders be suspended. So that this would make this thing completely redundant. 
But you must have a majority to put the gag. You have the same situation so that you get nowhere by carrying  Senator Wright's  suggestion through to the point that I suggested. If you still have a situation where the numbers can carry the suspension of Standing Orders, the Government, which we are try. ing to protect in this situation, is put immediately into the same position. It looks to me,  Mr Chairman,  as if this thing has not been looked at on a sufficiently broad basis. I think the amendment will clear up the situation referred to by  Senator Cant  but it puts in this very cumbersome sort of procedure in respect of a motion for the adjournment of the House. The motion is generally that the House meet 5 minutes earlier. I do not know why it is 5 minutes and not 1 minute. I do not even know why it is earlier. I would prefer that we meet 5 minutes later. It does not make a lot of sense to me. If we went along with  Senator Wright  we would still get nowhere because of the suspension of Standing Orders. In other countries a multiplicity of parties under a proportional system of representation has brought tremendous instability into government.  A  prize example is France, which had 24 governments in 20 years. 
Members of the minor parties can say that it will not happen to us. I will accept that for the moment. The point is that we will not be here forever. Other people will replace us, and perhaps even other parties. We do not know what the situation will be. It comes back to  Senator Turnbull's  point that it has been a multiplicity of parties that has brought the matter to a head. I think it has to be examined again in the light of what  Senator Wright  has said, and also to make sure that we bear in mind these other things. Whatever we do, if we hamstrung this to the point that it was useless, it would not matter because we could move suspension of the Standing Orders. 
I ask the Minister for Air whether the Royal Australian Air Force has placed an order for the new Project N aircraft which was developed by the Government Aircraft Factory in Melbourne? If so, what is the size of the order? Has the Army ordered any of these aircraft? Have any overseas orders been received for this aircraft? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Statement. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
If that is so I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Statement. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That, after consideration of Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business, Order of the Day No. 19. 
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY PAROLE OF PRISONERS ORDINANCE No. 3 of 1971 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he will say what plans hrs Department has for airport facilities at Essendon? What is his estimate of the current value of the land occupied by Essendon. Airport? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General treat as urgent the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on 15 March 1971 concerning the stockpiling by commercial television stations of Australian made television films, mainly 'Homicide' and 'Division 4', for the purpose of obtaining credits for such programmes when the new Australian drama quotas come into effect in September 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: 
Has the Minister seen reports of the alleged beating-up of a naval cadet during initiation ceremonies at HMAS Leeuwin? 
Will the Minister undertake an investigation of the cadet training establishments of all three Services to discover whether initiation ceremonies such as 'bastardisation' or 'hazing', are being practiced in any of them and, should any such practices be discovered, will he take the strongest possible action to ensure that all such ceremonies are completely stamped out? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
As announced by the Minister for the Navy an investigation into incidents at HMAS Leeuwin is being carried out. The investigation and report on the incident involving junior recruit Shane Connolly will be followed by investigation of other allegations. After the 1969 Inquiry into the Royal Military College affair other Army training establishments were investigated and, as announced by the Minister for the Army at the time, no irregularities were revealed other than isolated incidents of ragging. There has been no evidence of any hazing practices at RAAF training establishments. In the circumstances a general inquiry into cadet training centres of all three Services is not justified. 
 The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  started his contribution by saying that  Senator Murphy  had made a very political speech. After listening to the Minister I wonder who made the most political speech. It does not require the exercise of any great judgment to decide. A lot of angles are attached to this matter. I do not wish to enter in great detail into the constitutional problems. I am disturbed that there is a constitutional doubt and I would like to see it resolved, beyond any reasonable doubt. The Attorney-General does not seem to think that there is any constitutional doubt. People before him have thought that there is.  Senator Murphy  has doubts. What is wrong with completely dispelling those doubts from our minds? The Attorney-General said that if this matter were to be decided it should go to the High Court. It could well finish up in the High Court if the committee suggested by  Senator Murphy,  or any other committee or the Senate decided in that way. However, I hope that the Attorney-General is not suggesting that we should rush into the High Court on the meagre information we have. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  referred to a time when there were 19 Ministers. I think there were 15, but that is not important. He said that every additional Minister had been appointed from members of the House of Representatives and not from the Senate, and therefore Assistant Ministers are required. I believe that his argument would have logically led to the suggestion that we would want more Ministers in the Senate. That would have been a vastly different story and I cannot see how the Opposition could very well criticise that suggestion. It could be said that there are too many Ministers already, but that is a completely different argument. The question of whether Ministers should be appointed from the Senate is not relevant because we already have them. People sincerely hold the view that there should be no Ministers in the Senate, but the fact is that that point was decided many years ago in this place. 
I suggest to the Government that its timing in appointing Assistant Ministers was exceedingly bad, in view of the minor troubles that have arisen in the Liberal Party. As I said the other day, timing is the art of all politics, and the Government must expect some criticism when it fails to appreciate the significance of timing. 'The books on the centre table obscure my view of the smiling face of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, but from what  Senator Murphy  said, it seems that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson shook his head when  Senator Murphy  said- 
Was it? I will raise the question now of whether Assistant Ministers will sit in on committees. I certainly will not quote as extensively from Hansard as  Senator Greenwood  did, but when I do quote I shall quote it all and not leave out bits as the honourable gentleman did. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 
Again taking up what  Sir Robert  Menzies said in that statement, there are occasions when it would bc of great assistance to a Minister if his Assistant Minister could, during the Committee stages of a Bill, sit at the table of the House and represent his Minister in the discussion of clauses and amendments as they arise. I shall be consulting with the Presiding Officers on this matter to ascertain whether, to achieve this, an amendment of Standing Orders will be necessary. 
I ask honourable senators to think about those words for a moment. Is it not evasion of ministerial responsibility, particularly in this place? From time to time, on rare occasions, I have seen Ministers accept amendments put forward by the Opposition. Is not another tier being inserted into this process if you have an Assistant Minister? It may be  Senator Marriott  today and somebody else tomorrow. It may be 3 or 4 senators in the future. I do not know. The personality does not really matter. The Assistant Minister can say: 'I can hardly accept this but I will talk to my Minister'. I think you will introduce into this situation an evasion of ministerial responsibility. Probably this is the most critical time when a Minister should be exercising responsibility. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the Government ready to answer publicly the pleas from Community Aid Abroad - an organisation under the patronage of  Sir Garfield  Barwick - for additional aid for the Pakistani refugees? Is the Minister aware of the serious deterioration of the situation in the last 4 weeks which has resulted in the certain death of 100,000 children and which endangers the lives of a further 100,000 children? 
The Minister for Health, to whom I address my question, would be aware that the Commonwealth Government has announced that it will require warning labels to be placed on cigarette packets sold in its Territories when the State governments take the same action in their areas. As this is obviously a buckpassing exercise, I ask the new Minister for Health to consider reversing the sequence so that the Commonwealth will give a lead to the States in requiring warning labels to be placed on cigarette packets. 
I do not accept  Senator Willesee's  diagnosis that this is a form of buck-passing. I could point to many other fields of Commonwealth and State relations in which it is difficult to gain agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. That was my experience many years ago as a member of a Senate select committee inquiring into road safety. The States have a. tremendous responsibility in that field. I remember once when everybody agreed that certain things should be done, but each State had its own way of doing them. It is tremendously difficult to get the States to agree. I will not let it be a buck-passing proposition. I will keep slogging away at this issue in an attempt to get the States and the Commonwealth to reach uniformity on it. 
I move: 
At end of motion add: 'but the Senate disapproves of the appointment of Assistant Ministers'. 
I will not speak at length on this because the matter has been well canvassed. The Opposition sought in the first place to have this question thoroughly examined although it does disapprove of the general principle. It is left with no alternative now. The Opposition regrets that its previous amendment was defeated because it felt a thorough examination would have settled this question for all time. However, the will of the Senate is that we do not do that. I now want an expression of opinion from the Senate on the general principle involved. The Australia Labor Party believes that particularly in the Senate there should not be a system of Assistant Ministers adopted. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Willesee's amendment)  be added. 
Has the Minister for Health seen the statement by Australia's distinguished Nobel Prize winner,  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet, to the effect that he is satisfied that research over 15 to 20 years has established a direct connection between cigarettes and lung cancer?  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet added: 
The Department of Health has a very poor record in this. The Medical Research Council has strongly advocated the banning of television advertisements. The Department of Health and the Federal Government have done nothing about it. Why haven'tthey? 
I ask the Minister: Apart from approving the voluntary code on cigarette advertising, what action has the Government taken in relation to this matter? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I saw the comment by  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet that appeared in the Sydney Press. In fact I have a copy of it in front of me. Under the Broadcasting and Television Act the Director-General must approve of advertisements for proprietary medicines and of medical talks before they are broadcast or televised. The Anti-Cancer Council's advertisements were submitted to the Department of Health for approval. Those advertisements wilh a medical content were approved. Because the remainder were not considered to have a medical content the approval of my Department was not required. I want to make it abundantly clear that the Department of Health deals only with the advertisements which have a medical content, lt has to approve only the ones which it considers to have a medical content. 
1 did not ask the Minister about that. 
In approving of television scripts the Director-General of Health has to satisfy himself as to the medical accuracy of the content. For advertisements in particular he is guided by the programme standards of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council. It is true that in response to a question yesterday I indicated what the States were frying to do in relation to this matter. But I want to make the point in direct response to what  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet said that, insofar as health issues in advertising are concerned, the Department of Health has to approve only the advertisements which have a medical content. It has no jurisdiction over the ones which do not have a medical content. A wider issue has been raised in the question asked by  Senator Willesee.  I will have to have a look at that matter and make a comprehensive reply to it on a subsequent occasion. 
 I oppose the motion. 
As the leader of the Government interjected, I could agree to this motion and, when the Standing Orders are suspended, I could oppose the second motion, but I do not think it matters much when I register my opposition. The purpose of moving the motion has been explained.  Senator Byrne  has notices of motion No. 1 and No. 11. He has the first and the last. He is seeking to enact the biblical expression 'the last shall be first'. I suggest that he is giving scant consideration to notices of motion Nos. 2 to 10. It is true that he feels that the nature of No. 11, dealing with the reprimand administered by the Senate, is such that, if it is to be removed, it should be removed at the first opportunity. I concede that. It is also a matter of opinion. There should be no leapfrogging of items of General Business, unless there is agreement between the Parties or unless there is a tremendous urgency to deal with an item. 
I wish he would withdraw his motion. If we agree to act along the lines that he is thinking, we will get ourselves into a fair bit of turmoil later. When the Independents find their feet, they will be moving similar motions. The present situation is vastly different to that which we have had over the years. I am afraid that we will have to discipline ourselves into some order. If  Senator Byrne  feels that No. 1 should be taken off the notice paper altogether - and I feel that there would be and argument in favour of that, but that is his decision - he should ask leave to withdraw No. 1. We have been snookered by No. 1. The Australian Labor Party has given a tremendous amount of time to item No. 2 that is in my name. I regard it as a tremendously important item. I regard it as being of more importance as the date of an election approaches. I think that this is one matter that should be brought to the public's attention and that all Parties should have something to say about it. Election times can be valuable, apart from providing the opportunity of banging one another over the head. It could be a great public debating forum. Whatever the results on election night, if we have brought something to the public's notice, if we have had a good debate on it, if we have brought out the various points of view and if we have caused the whole nation to think along the lines we suggested, we have achieved something. 
I  cannot support  Senator Byrne's  motion. My Leader will not be back until this afternoon. I do not know what thoughts he has on this, but I think that his thoughts would be along the same lines as mine. Of the next 6 items of General Business  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has 2,  Senator Murphy  has 2 and  Senator Devitt  and myself have one each. I do not think that we should proceed with the last item of business. I do not think that we should elevate it over other items. We should not elevate it to No. 1. This is not a very good idea.  Senator Byrne  has told me that he would be quite prepared to see No. 1 moved further down the list. He does not want that item to hold its position. That would mean that when we came back to General Business - I must be fair to him on this - No. 2 would be debated. That is not the point. If  Senator Byrne  withdraws item No. 1, we could move to No. 2. We could debate that, subject to a few contingencies that are involved. We would be prepared to debate the items and to dispose of them as rapidly as we can, if we can get a crack at them.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson might not wish to proceed with the 2 that stand in his name. At such short notice I cannot agree that we should elevate the last item on the notice paper to make it the first item on the notice paper. 
 I do not intend to debate this motion. I took the opportunity of debating this question on the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. Had we defeated that motion, of course, it would have been a much more expeditious way of handling the matter. The Australian Labor Party will vote against this motion but not press it to a division because the Senate has already made up its mind on the first motion. 1 suggest to honourable senators that we should look very carefully at the handling of this matter. If everybody in the Senate is going to jack up against the 
Labor Party it means that the use of many of the forms of the House can be denied to the official Opposition. The suspension of Standing Orders could be moved in relation to all sorts of things. We could even be gagged from speaking if that was thought necessary, and our only protection would be you,  Mr President,  and you as the first among equals would have to do what this Senate decides. I am not suggesting that this is what is in the minds of honourable senators. I merely say, particularly to new senators, that these matters should be watched very carefully, because I do not think they want to finish up in the position that I have indicated. I concede to them that on this occasion they were impressed with the argument put forward by  Senator Byrne  and with the urgency of this matter. I do not think for one moment that they want to finish up at the end of that lane. 
 Mr President,  you will recall that the debate on the appointment of Assistant Ministers was adjourned shortly after I had begun to speak. I think that the history of this matter is fairly well known. The House of Representatives has agreed to allow the appointment of Assistant Ministers in that chamber. I will not go into the history of the matter because I think it was dealt with fairly fully by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  the other day. But I shall repeat very briefly what I said before the debate was adjourned. I said that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  had made out a case for the granting to him and other Ministers in this chamber of assistance to enable them to carry out their ministerial duties. I also made the point that I thought the Leader of the Government's case would have been better made if it had been made out for the appointment of extra Ministers in this chamber. 
The Leader of the Opposition has pointed out the peculiar imbalance that exists where 5 Ministers in this chamber represent between them 22 Ministers in the other place and the 22 Ministers in the other place represent between them only 5 Ministers here. One of the things that bedevils question time in this chamber is the fact that one cannot honestly expect a Minister in this chamber to answer off the cuff a lot of the questions asked concerning the administrative responsibility of a Minister in the other place, although sometimes he can answer questions on matters of high principle or policy or on matters of public moment at the time. 
I believe that the timing of the announcement of the proposal to appoint Assistant Ministers was very bad. Troubles have occurred in the Liberal Party of Australia. It is only natural, in view of what has been happening in the Liberal Party, that accusations would be made to the effect that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was seeking a wider power base within his Party by appointing Assistant Ministers at this stage. I think the argument would have been based on completely different grounds if the Prime Minister had said that he wanted 1, 2 or 3 extra Ministers because of the extra responsibilities devolving on the Government of the day. 

 Mr President, I seek clarification on certain aspects of what would happen in the event of this proposal being implemented. The Prime Minister has said that he was looking at the possibility of Assistant Ministers handling the passage of a Bill in the Committee stage of the debate. There seems to be some confusion about this matter. I wonder whether the Prime Minister considered the situation in the Senate. I have seen occasions when the Minister at the table in the Senate has agreed on the spot to accept certain amendments that have been put forward. What has happened is that the responsible Minister in this chamber has considered the force of the argument and decided that the amendment put forward would not materially alter what the Bill was trying to achieve and has accepted the amendment. It is in this way that amendments the Opposition has put forward from time to time have been accepted. 1 think it would be a very backward step if the right of the responsible Minister in this place to do this were taken away from him. The Senate is, after all, a House of review and lots of honourable senators like to think that, the Senate does from time to time amend legislation. It would not be in the interests of the Senate if the right to accept amendments were taken away from an Assistant Minister who was handling a Bill in the Committee stage of the debate. The proposal is at present that there will be only one Assistant Minister in the Senate, namely,  Senator Marriott.  However, even  Senator Marriott  is not immortal, which means that another honourable senator will have to take his place in due course. The question of the personalities involved is not important. All I am saying is that it would not be in the interests of the Senate if the Assistant Minister were not in a position to make a decision on the spot as to whether an amendment should be accepted. 
Of course, the Ministerial responsibility does not end when the Parliament rises. In fact, weekends are favoured by Ministers for the making of statements. The situation could arise where a statement made by an Assistant Minister is challenged by the Opposition. Will we have the situation of the Minister saying that that he cannot be responsible for the policy enunciated by an Assistant Minister? Let us take the confusion that has arisen in the last few days about the terms of the proposed wool subsidy and the social service benefits granted in the Budget. I suppose it could be said that I read the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  a little cursorily at the time, but when I read it I thought that all pensioners were to receive a pro rata increase. According to what has been said in the other place and to Press reports this is not so. So confusion can arise as to exactly what a government means when it says one thing or the other. 
I am not going to debate the constitutional validity of the appointment of Assistant Ministers. Frankly, I think that there is some doubt about the proposal. I mention this matter only because the Opposition has proposed that the Committee on Disputed Returns and Qualifications should inquire into whether the place of a senator who is appointed an Assistant Minister of State becomes vacant. It was said the other day that if an appeal is made it should be to the High Court of Australia. I suggest it is putting the cart before the horse to do that. The Committee may be able to clear up beyond all possible doubt the constitutional question. It may satisfy the Senate that there is no constitutional doubt at all as to the validity of these appointments. I leave the constitutional position on that basis. I do not think that a great deal more can be said about it. This matter has bean well canvassed. The Australian Labor Party has simply moved that this Committee be asked to inquire into this matter and advise the Senate accordingly. If honourable senators opposite would prefer this matter to be referred to another committee for proper analysis they should say so. The Committee on Disputed Returns and Qualifications has been nominated by the Opposition because it would have every opportunity to call witnesses and seek opinions from law societies and that sort of thing. 
Some reference has been made to what happened in the other place in relation to the staff available to members of the Opposition vis-a-vis the Government. Some pretty sarcastic things have been said about this matter. The fact of the matter is that the Liberal-Country Party coalition has the same number of members in this chamber as the Australian Labor Party. In the other place there is a difference of 7 in favour of the coalition. There are at present 27 Ministers and they have the backing of a very considerable staff. It is proposed to appoint 6 Assistant Ministers. I presume that the Assistant Ministers will be backed by a reasonable staff and will have the advantages of travel facilities and so on. Only 4 members of the Australian Labor Party have any extra staff. I have 2 more staff members than a normal honourable senator would have and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has 3. It goes up the scale to  Mr Whitlam  who has a staff which I believe satisfies his needs. It is a rather uneven state of affairs. 
The United States of America has realised this in its handling of the position over the years. I have not been to Washington but I understand that the parliamentary reference library is a quite fantastic organisation. If one has a question, say, about foreign affairs one can be connected by telephone directly to the particular desk dealing with that subject, or even to a section of a desk. Always in those situations the staff is equal in salary and status for both Government and Opposition. 1 suppose one could be cynical and say that the Government holds the whip so why should it give the Opposition anything. But this should hardly be the position when we are trying to put before the Australian public the great debates that should take place. It is not sufficient for a government to steamroll things through the Parliament, to say that this is the law of the land and everyone must obey it. I suggest that in that way we will finish up making bad laws. 

 Her Majesty's Opposition in another place and in the Senate has a responsibility to put an opposing point of view, to make an examination of legislation and to suggest amendments, as we very frequently do. Often we agree with a proposal. However, time and again in the Labor Party Executive when it has been our responsibility to recommend to our caucus the action that we should take on a particular Bill we have come to a dead end because we have not had sufficient information. The only information that we have been able to get has been that which the Government has been acting on and the Government has not been getting a second opinion as it were. In that case we have a situation where we are stultified by not being able to make a proper examination of legislation. Bills have been amended or even withdrawn because matters which should have been considered in the first place did not come to the knowledge of members of Parliament for a long time. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson made the point that in his new portfolio he expects, on information that he has been given, to receive between 5,500 and 6,000 letters each year. That is a lot ot letters, particularly in view of the increased postage. But surely this is not an argument for the appointment of an Assistant Minister who, if I recall accurately the statement by the Prime Minister, will be occupied in the policy-making side of the business rather than worrying about this sort of thing. Also I suggest that many of the letters to which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has referred will be repetitive. We know perfectly well that time and again we have one problem raised by several people. A problem which arises from legislation does not hit one family only; it hits many families. We find that not only in relation to health but also in relation to immigration and social services there is frequent repetition of the same type of problem. I suggest that answers to problems of that kind should be prepared by officers who are experts in that field. Frequently I receive from Ministers letters which have been signed by their secretaries. I do not take any objection to this practice. At times my secretary signs letters on my behalf, especially if it is an interim letter or when I am sending copies of statements or Bills to somebody. That is why we have a staff. I suggest that the job of replying to correspondence is a task for expert staff and not for a person who will be engaged in the policy-making side of government. 
Another thing that worries me is a matter which has become a problem for the Pentagon where, because of its tremendous size, there is a bogging down and things become completely lost. The same thing happens here. How often do we write to Ministers raising some problem only to find suddenly, perhaps 6 months later, that the inquiry has been lost arid the whole matter has to be started again? Already between the departments and the parliamentary process we have Ministers end the Cabinet, but now it is intended to interpose what might be referred to in Australian Rules football as the 19th man and in cricket as the 12th man. I do not know how many there are in a rugby team. 
I do not intend to go into that; I do not recognise either of those codes. This extra echelon will lead only to a bogging down. We have been talking about regulations and ordinances.  Senator Wood,  who for 13 years was my  chairman  while I was a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, will recall one occasion while  Senator Wright  also was a member of the Committee when we worked on a matter and cross-examined witnesses for weeks, finally recommending the disallowance of a regulation which had been 13 years in the making, going right back to Chifley's day. The original minute on that matter was in Chifley's handwriting. After 13 years that regulation was finally disallowed. It is very nice to be able to say 'Give us more staff' or 'Give me assistance to permit me to handle this material', but it can lead to a bogging down. I remind the Leader of the Government that irrespective of what might happen in this case, the course proposed will produce a tremendously unfair advantage to the Government of the day. Nobody is immortal, even in the field of politics, and governments can change. I would certainly hope that if we were in government we would give to the Opposition a far better deal than unfortunately has been given to us. In saying that I do not point the finger at any particular person; it is just something that has grown up and been accepted. But with the pressures today we find the task of trying to cope with the situation becoming more and more onerous. 
It is tremendously important that both sides of a case should go before the public. Suddenly to jack up the numbers of staff available to members on one side of the Parliament without doing the same for the other side is, to put it as gently as I can, terribly unfair. I sum up by saying that I believe that what is proposed leaves room for a constitutional doubt. But I do not want to argue about that; I want that matter to be considered by experts who can advise us. The delay in doing this need not be great. There has already been a delay in making the appointments. The Parliament will not be sitting next week, and I am sure that the Committee could quickly call for legal advice. If there is a doubt, surely this is the time to remove that doubt, instead of waiting for some years to pass and for somebody to raise the question with the High Court. The situation which might arise then could be worse than the position that we find ourselves in today. I suggest that it is terribly uneven and unfair to build up the staff and capability of the Government without doing the same for the Opposition. 
Finally, I fear that the Senate itself will be damaged if we take away from this place the flexibility and goodwill which have grown up. I am sure that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson would agree that we have been able to amend and improve legislation with a minimum amount of abrasiveness because of the goodwill that has developed. In the Committee stage we always do a good job with legislation - I think far better than the job done by other places that I can think of which are not far away. I do not think that in the Committee stage the Government can ask an Assistant Minister to sit in the chamber and decide whether an amendment should be accepted. I suggest that the Government would suffer no harm and nothing would be lost, but quite an amount of good would be done by examining the situation in the first instance. 
I intend to be very brief. Because I was one of the members of the Committee of Privileges I wish to speak to this matter. On that Committee were 3 legal men, including the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  2 QCs, a lawyer, some other people and myself.  Senator Byrne  suggested tonight that we have erred. 
To me,  Senator Byrne  suggested very clearly that the Senate had erred. For 65 minutes I listened to him and I came to that conclusion. 
The point I am making is that for 65 minutes I listened to  Senator Byrne  tonight, and he made the point that this Senate had erred. If that is not his case, I do not know what we are arguing about. If he does not contend that we have erred, why are we discussing this matter?  Senator Byrne  suggested that when the Senate handed out this very mild punishment, as  Senator Greenwood  so aptly described it - the least we could have done to these people was to admonish them - it erred. He said that we erred because we did not call on them to show reason why the very mild admonition should not be made. I understand that that is the case he put before us. The honourable senator said that he does not challenge what the Committee has done, but let us have a look at what happened when the report was furnished by the  Chairman  of the Committee which had been offended, namely, the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. This matter was referred by the Senate, the senior body, to a committee to deal with the situation and to make a recommendation to the Senate. 
There is no doubt that there is no clear law on the way we should proceed. We have to study precedent coming to us from the House of Commons, the Mother of Parliaments, but not solely from there. We had the sword of Damocles hanging over our head because of what had happened in the Browne and Fitzpatrick case and the criticisms that had arisen from it. Because of those criticisms we were not doubly careful but trebly careful about what we did. I was tremendously impressed by the way honourable senators applied themselves and when we had finally cleared our minds on every possible point -  Senator Drake-Brockman, Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Greenwood  have pointed out how these men were allowed counsel, and the rest of it - after we had come to the final decision we said: 'Let us examine the position. Let us go back and in the name of conscience have another complete discussion on whether at all stages we have given these people natural justice.' That is what we did. We were worried about the question of natural justice. 
We went back to the very beginning and examined all that we had done up to that point. Where is the practical approach to this matter? It has already been mentioned that at this stage, after a careful examination, after taking into consideration all the peculiarities of the case and the fact that the committee system was new and it was a very clear case of a breach, because of the novelty of the situation we decided upon a very mild punishment.  Mr President, Senator Byrne  suggests that the parties concerned should have been brought here and that your predecessor should have said to them: 'Now show cause before 60 people why you should not receive this punishment'. That may have taken even longer than  Senator Byrne  took for his speech tonight, although that would be hard to imagine. We are all equal here, and T. assume that each honourable senator would have an opportunity to clear his mind by whatever way he thought fit. I imagine that questioning would be the method adopted in an attempt to decide whether the punishment fitted the crime. What a situation that would be. The Senate would be turned into a laughing stock. 

 - Senator Wright is a lawyer. As he points out, that is precisely why we employ committees and attempt to clear this sort of debris out of the way. Obviously it is not suitable for a big body of people to handle a situation such as this.  Senator Byrne's  next point was that he did not want a retrial of these people. There are new members of the Senate. There are people here who are not aware of what happened and therefore, he said, he did not want to retry the 2 persons concerned. He said, in effect: 'Do not hear them again. Just let us squash the whole situation.' 

 - Senator Byrne said that he did not want a retrial of these people. He said that he did not want to send the matter back to the Committee without any evidence at all, with new people here who know nothing about it. He said: 'Just let us squash the whole situation'. There were admitted facts in this case. There was no argument about the facts. There was no dichotomy of thinking at all. It was unanimously accepted by the Senate.  Senator Byrne  comes here months later and for some unknown reason which I cannot fathom suddenly says: 'No retrial. Just squash the whole think and forget all about it.' No complaint has been lodged with the  President  by the 2 individuals concerned. 
1 ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Did the Government make any effort to prevent the beach sand mining companies Cudgen RZ Ltd and Consolidated Rutile Ltd and the tin producer Aberfoyle Ltd being sold out to foreign investors during the liquidation of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of the circumstances. I will seek to obtain the information for the honourable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many prisoners currently held in gaols in Papua New Guinea are (a) respectively 17, 16, 15, 14, 13 , 12, 11, 10 and 9 years of age, (b) in the age group 18 to 20 years and (c) above 20 years of age? 
 I am pleased to say that towards the end of  Senator Lillico's  speech I was able to' agree with him. At that stage I believe he struck for the first time a note of Australianism, even though he was referring to films. I would have thought that there was one English film which he would not have objected to, one starring Alf Garnett. I thought the honourable senator bore a tonsorial resemblance to that gentleman. As Alf Garnett is always abusing Harold Wilson, the Labour Prime Minister, I thought the honourable senator might agree with him. We ought to be giving more encouragement to the Australian film industry. I agree wholeheartedly with  Senator Lillico  that the Government ought to be taking more interest in it, particularly since the advent of television. We could be producing many more Australian films. We were one of the first countries outside America to enter this field. Before World War II we were producing some very great actors and actresses and were making good films. We may laugh at them when we look at them today but when we compare them with the American and English films of those days they stand out quite well. But somehow we have lost the art of film making. Australia has the type of atmosphere in which to make films for many hours of the day. We have natural actors and actresses. Many of them are household words. 1 refer to people like Shirley Anne Richards, Cecil Kellaway, Chips Rafferty, Peter Finch and others. AH this talent was developed in the early period of the industry prior to 1939. I agree completely with what  Senator Lillico  said in the dying part of his speech. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable senator say that he agreed with the Budget. I thought his speech was a condemnation of the Budget. If I analysed correctly what he said he believed that inflation was uncontrollable and that this Government ought not to be blamed for it. The very thing that this Budget aims to do - this was repeated several times in the Budget Speech - is to beat inflation. It seems to me that  Senator Lillico  was denying this precept and saying that it could not be controlled. Then he added that this was not the fault of the Government. I take issue with him over this, of course. Inflation is not exotic. It is not something which comes from overseas. It may be that the economists of the world have not yet done what Keynes did in the period of the depression. He came up with some sort of solution to the economic problems of those days. I agree with that. But the economists today have not yet found an easy solution to this thing we call inflation. We know all too well the symptoms of inflation and the responsibility of controlling it rests with the government of the day. 
I do not think any honourable senator on the Government side should deny that for various reasons, political and otherwise - reasons which they may honestly have believed were for the best at the time - the Government has allowed inflation to continue for a long period of years. It is true to say that Government supporters are the architects of inflation in Australia. Prior to them becoming the Government they fought every weapon that the old Labor Government put through. They will never admit today that the Labor Government was correct in using economic controls in a wartime economy. Controls had to be used in those unusual economic times. When the Labor Government attempted to extend them for a reasonable period after the war the people who today are the Liberals - in those days they were transferring from the United Australia Party and the Nationalist Party and that sort of thing to the Liberal Party - fought tooth and nail against them for political reasons. The Government's economic advisers could show it very clearly that that was the correct thing to do at that time. 
Government supporters today must think about the early years of their government and wonder about what would have happened had they kept under control the tremendous inflation of the 1950s, even if they had had to institute unpalatable controls. I agree that nobody likes controls but in our lifetime in this modern society all of us will have to submit a lot more to them if we are to combat pollution and a lot of other things. Government supporters must realise that if they had kept the basic wage reasonably stable in the first 5 years of the 1950s we would have been able to compete much better on the overseas markets about which today  Senator Lillico  expressed regret. But during that period they operated under the banner of private enterprise. They said that private enterprise would control inflation. They said: 'Let laissez-faire take over and all our problems arising with inflation, the problems of quality of life and all the rest will be cured.' Of course Liberal Party supporters have learnt in their  2li  years of government that nothing is further from the truth. 

 Senator Lillico said that this Budget has received less criticism than any other Budget has. All I can say to him is that none are so deaf as those who will not hear. The stupid thing about budgets is that we seem to think that everything has to be solved by the end of 365 days. We always take the 30th June which, if I remember correctly what I learned in my school years, has something to do with the solar system. We seem to think that everything has to be solved in that period. This reminds me of the Chinese New Year. Every debt has to be paid before the Chinese let off their crackers and in order to do so they will even burn their homes and collect the insurance. We think that that is economically stupid; yet we copy it ourselves in these days. 
The Government made a great song and dance about the fact that in its last budget it granted tax rebates. The criticism by the Australian Labor Party was that the Government granted tax rebates to the wealthy but increased indirect taxes on all. In the previous Budget the Government put money in the hands of the people with the spending power, which was inflationary, and took money away from those who needed it most by increasing indirect taxation. By doing that the Government encouraged inflation. At Budget time everybody waits to see whether the light is green or red. On the last occasion the Government gave the green light. Not only where indirect taxes in the form of sales tax imposed by the Government but it gave the green light to manufacturers and sellers to add their percentage. The Government created increased liquidity for the wealthy but increased costs to all. This is to some degree what the Government has done in this Budget and 1 will deal with this point a little later, f repeat that the Government increased liquidity and provided more money to the wealthy people who could spend it and then increased costs to all. Apart from the economics of this, it is hardly social justice. 
The Government has fooled around with restrictive trade practices which actually are anathema to it. The Government does not like them. It fiddled around with them and finally was rebuffed in the High Court. Today we heard it stated that something will be done about restrictive trade practices but the Government has been talking about this ever since it came to office. If the Government is going to increase the liquidity of wealthy people but do nothing to control prices, it is dishonest to the Australian people. Surely the situation of retail price maintenance shrieks aloud. Certain people heaped abuse on the Australian Council of Trade Unions but practically everybody has said that retail price maintenance is a form of price fixing aimed at the purchaser in Australia. It is a form of price fixing which is quite unlike wage fixing. Wage increases have to be proved to be necessary before an independent tribunal and the whole weight of the Commonwealth Government is thrown against the unions whenever they take action in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet the Government allows private people to meet in secret and agree to fix prices at a high artificial level for as long as the market can bear it. If they believe that the market can bear it they will push them a little higher still. I must give credit to at least one member of the Cabinet at the time that the original Trade Practices Bill was introduced because a provision to control this practice was included in it. But pressure was applied and the Cabinet wilted and took it out. 
The Government has made a great song and dance about giving away the right to collect payroll tax but in fact that tax has been increased. Under Commonwealth control payroll tax was collected at the rate of  2i per  cent. But the Government gave this power to the States knowing that it would not meet their need for a growth tax that would keep money flowing into their hands. The Government gave this power to the States knowing perfectly well that they would have to increase the rate. The Government increased that rate by another I per cent. 
-! will come to that.  Senator. That  is a very good interjection. 
That is right. A former State treasurer intervenes and asks: Why did they have to?' He knows perfectly well why. It is because of the starvation that results from Commonwealth policy. I want to deal with that matter in a moment. 
Of course they get more money today than the honourable senator ever got. They are doing a lot more than the honourable senator ever did, too. Last year's Budget, however we might argue about it, put a dollar a week into the pay packet of ordinary working people - I am not talking about those on higher incomes - and it took $2 out of the purse of the wife who had to buy what the extra amount was required to do. The net effect of that Budget was that the family unit was worse off. Today it has been estimated that this Budget means another $1.50 a week decrease in the purchasing power of the ordinary working people of Australia. Every economist who has looked at this Budget has said that it is a Trojan horse. The real effect of the Budget is going to be felt in the new year. At the moment, people are receiving taxation cheques. We always have this inflationary period and a lot of liquidity in this period of the year, lt is after Christmas that we are going to be adversely affected. But already the vast majority of people who make up this nation of ours will bc $1.50 a week worse off. 

 Senator Gair has asked: 'Why do States have to push up rates'? lt does not matter very much whether the workers have a wage cut taken directly out of their pay packets or we say to them: 'You have to stretch that wage packet to pay all the bills which you cannot dodge in your day to day living in a family'. Every State budget which has been introduced recently has been a harsh one. The Western Australian budget is still to come but Premier Tonkin has said that at best it is not going to be as bad as the budget introduced by  Sir Henry  Bolte. 
They are not only doing that. If the honourable senator was a State Treasurer - he seems to be concealing that fact very well tonight - he knows perfectly well that it is not true that they are increasing only salaries. They have increased municipal rates, payroll tax, fares, car registration fees and interest rates. This is what is happening. It does not matter whether it is a Commonwealth tax, a State tax or a local government tax, it still comes out of the pay packet of one person and one person only. I repeat that it does not matter whether we immediately reduce' wages by a certain amount or say that certain bills have to be met. Some people say that a reduction hits equally the wage and salary earners and the pensioners. It does not. When such things as water rates, land rates or land taxes are increased the increase applies equally to the wealthy person and the poor person. This is why the incidence of indirect taxation is unfair. 
It takes a courageous government to stand up and say that direct taxation is the fairest of all forms of taxation. Some people are obtaining great incomes because they are living in a great country. The Government spends money putting in roads and footpaths past blocks of land which people own. For this service they pay nothing. They obtain an unearned increment. They obtain this from the work and the produce of the people in the country. This Budget is supposed to be against inflation. Who is going to bear this cost?  Senator Lillico  was pointing all the time to one person only - the wage earner. 
If one reads the policy speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  one sees the gratuitous remarks against those who have only their labour to sell. There is not one word against anybody who can manipulate the price of their goods or of their shares, salt their uranium mines or their nickel mines. There is not one word against these people. Without any analysis at all the Treasurer blames wages. I ask honourable senators to show me in the Treasurer's speech one word of economic analysis to prove the bland saying that wages create prices. The fact is that there is no economic analysis of the position in the Budget. From a new Treasurer one would expect something a little better than that. The statement on wages is a political statement and nothing else. He makes the beautiful statement that wage increases are obtained under pressure. When in the history of the oldest honourable senator in this chamber were wage increases ever obtained by anything but pressure? Can honourable senators remember any time when employers went to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and said that wages ought to be increased? Of course they are obtained under pressure. They are under pressure in the Arbitration Commission, around the negotiating table, from day to day in the workshop and by all sorts of other means. Where will workers obtain wage increases if there is no pressure? An interesting statement is contained in the second last paragraph of the Budget Speech: 
There is scope for a real lift in the standard of living which should be shared by many who would otherwise be the undefended victims of inflation and the self-seeking of stronger, more aggressive groups. 
I wonder who the treasurer meant by more aggressive groups'. I thought that the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange which was under the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and which has now been taken over by our friend  Senator Rae  may have indicated where those more aggressive groups were. The Committee has been pointing a finger fairly and squarely at one of the most disgraceful set-ups in the Australian economic situation. At first the security industry would not have a bar of this suggestion. It said that the Senate was stepping outside its proper role - its terms of reference - and that there ought not be Commonwealth control of securities and exchange in Australia. The 5, 6 or 7 disgraceful episodes which have come before the Committee must make us look like a bunch of crooks overseas because these matters are hitting the headlines. Do not honourable senators think that this situation is adding to inflation in Australia? Do they not think that without control over this type of thing in Australia that will add to inflation? But according to the Treasurer the wage earners are the more aggressive group. 1 ask honourable senators not to fool themselves when they are talking about wage increases. When we talk about the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission wc are not talking about a few coal miners or a few fellows on the wharves. Arbitration tribunals in one form or another determine 95 per cent of incomes in Australia. These tribunals cover the Public Service, the universities, the white collar workers, the blue collar workers- 
lt is not very high if the honourable senator looks at it. 
-! shall give the honourable senator 1 per cent or 2 per cent and take the figure down to 93 per cent because of my great regard for him. Let us get on the same level. The figure is tremendously high. I repeat that 93 per cent or 95 per cent of people's incomes are determined by the arbitration tribunals. I say to honourable senators: 'Do not sit back on your pontifical heights and agree with the Treasurer when you are talking about wage increases'. Do not say that this does not affect you, because it does. 
We look in vain for the identification of the groups of whom he speaks. 1 repeat that this gratuitous statement is a political statement. There is not an analytical, economic statement made throughout the Budget. It is supposed to be an attack on inflation. Professor Hall of the Austraiian National University said: 'An attack on inflation? What a laugh. Wait until after Christmas. Wait until all this starts to get under way'. One feature of inflation which the Government talks about is increased costs. We clearly understand this situation. We call it inflation as costs increase. This Budget is going to increase costs. Whichever way we look at it, it will increase costs. As it increases costs, by the great magic of mathematics, manufacturers and sellers are going to add their part to costs. This is inflationary. It is not deflationary. When we come to the other side of the inflationary story, that is the question of demand and how much money we have in our pocket to meet the ever increasing costs, then the Government starts to look at the deflationary side of the story. There is a decrease in purchasing power; that is deflationary. In relation to profits and goods the Government is carrying out an inflationary policy. In relation to people, it is carrying out a deflationary policy. 
The charge payable by patients for pharmaceuticals will be increased. The thing that appals me more than anything when dealing with health matters is that the Government always demands that sick people have to pay for pharmaceuticals. The whole health scheme is breaking down because of this. Instead of providing an increase in indirect taxation to cover the cost of these things, the Government is saying to the unfortunate wife or widow who has children and who has to buy pharmaceuticals: 'Because you are unfortunate enough to have to go to a chemist shop to buy these things for the protection of your family, or because you arc silly enough to get sick, you will pay for them'. Surely the weak in the community should not have to pay for these goods. 
The Government has again increased the customs duly on petrol. It airily waves its hands and says: 'If people drive only a few miles at a weekend and if they can afford a car, good enough'. There is no analysis of the reason tor this increase. Virtually nothing in the home - foodstuffs, furniture or anything else - is nol transported at some time by a petrol driven vehicle. Therefore the increase will be not only on the couple of gallons a week that the ordinary motorist uses but also in practically everything that goes into the home. The radio and television licence is to be increased. That is getting pretty hot. Mum and dad sitting at home at night watching television are not great spendthrifts, but the Government pursues them into the home. The Government says that the normal healthy working family can carry the increases; but if there is a period of illness or some period of unemployment during the year, one of the things that people could well have to cut out would be television. Air fares have been increased already because of the increase in the duty on petrol. As  Senator 
Murphy tried to point out in a question today, Australia has the highest air fares in the world already, yet the Government is trying to push them up higher. 
We have heard a lot about child endowment and how good the proposed increases will be. Let me pay my tribute immediately and say: 'Thank goodness. At long last the Government has recognised that there is such a thing as child endowment'. Just as it has been revealed that the pension increase was not a full pension increase but a very partial one - that fact was concealed by the Government for quite a long time until finally the cat was let out of the bag - the proposed increases in child endowment are not quite as good as they sounded on Budget night because only 31.9 per cent of families will receive increased benefits. In other words, less than onethird of the families with children will receive increased benefits. Only 4.7 per cent of families will receive more than an additional $1 a week. 
The Government has made an attack on wages and has talked about taxation, but if it looked at the figures it would find that each year the working class person pays a greater percentage of his earnings in taxation. In 1967 the average weekly earning was $60.70. We should not confuse average weekly earnings with the old basic wage. There is no longer a basic wage. The average weekly earnings include the salaries of all the large salary earners, not only the wages of those on low incomes. Most people do not get anything near the average weekly earnings. Because the old basic wage has gone by the board the formula that is talked about today is the average weekly earning. In 1967 the average weekly earning was 560.70. Of that 16.1 per cent was deducted as income tax. I do not want to bore the Senate with figures, but in 197 1 that figure has risen to 19.1 per cent. So in 4 short years it has risen from 16.1 per cent to 19.1 per cent. If we assume - and these are assumptions which, believe me, are not unreasonable - that there will be a 6 per cent increase in average weekly earnings next year, the proportion deducted for income tax will rise to 19.9 per cent. Should the average weekly earnings rise by 10 per cent - a lot of Liberal Party people are talking about this - the proportion will have risen from 16.1 per cent in 1967 to 21 per cent next year. The Government has been manoeuvring on this subject. It made a great splash last year under John Gorton. It said that at long last it intended to take a new approach to the matter. This promise came out of an election campaign. It has been dropped completely on this occasion. Again there is this stop-go situation. Always squeezed in the middle is the little man who has to pay more irrespective of how high sounding the Budget may have seemed on Budget night. 
The Government has inflated prices and it has deflated people. The problem is cost. The Government admits that. The Budget does not pretend to attempt to deal with this side of the problem. AH it does is to talk about the cost push, so the Government says that it will deal with the push side of the problem. It attacks the demand, but it does not attack costs. I thought  Senator Lillico  used an unfortunate phrase tonight when he talked about putting value in the pound. I did not think that any Liberal, after 1949, would use that expression again. 
Obviously to take one calendar year and to say that this is what the Government intends to do in one year is not good enough. Great Britain is one country which now plans a Budget over 3 years. It makes minor adjustments to that because of unforeseen circumstances. This Government is showing the need for adopting such a procedure by the last 2 Budgets because last year it set out to decrease taxation and this year it has increased taxation. Last year there was at least an inference - I am not quite sure whether there was a direct statement - that the matter would be looked at. A few years ago when  Mr McMahon  was the Treasurer I remember him saying that he deplored regressive taxation, what was happening to wage increases and the rest of it. Still nothing was done about it. There have to be forward estimates made. If the Government had planned honestly, without a political motive, and if it had looked ahead for 3 years, obviously it would not have reached this ridiculous situation in which it is making a great song and dance and a great furore in one year about reducing taxation and then having to increase it in the next year. 
The Government has adopted the phoney approach, which it always loves to  do, of talking about breaking down the government sector of spending. It is amazing how the Government never learns. In the early 1950s,  Mr Menzies  as he then was said: 'We will sack 10,000 civil servants'. The joke used to be who would be the first to be sacked. Of course that scheme did not work. The Government sacked the wrong type of people. A couple of years ago the Government started this again by saying that no overtime was to be worked and that no excess travel was to take place. This year the Government has given its approach a nice little twist and has spoken about not allowing the Public Service to increase its staff by more than a certain percentage - I think it is 3.1 per cent. Does the Government know what it is doing when it says this? It is saying that it is completely inefficient in its running of the Public Service. Unnecessary extra staff should not have been put on in the first place. The Public Service should be run at such a level that a staff position authorised by the Public Service Board should be necessary. The travelling of a person around Australia should be necessary. Overtime to be worked should be necessary. I am not at all interested in what the government is putting forward. After 30th lune in the Taxation Office overtime is the cheapest way to get the job done. If it is said that no overtime is to be worked, in 6 months time the files will be stacked as high as the ceiling. Extra staff can be engaged then or overtime can be authorised and overtime will be payable at a much higher rate than is applicable today. So it is just a phoney. It just does not work unless the Government has been so lax as to allow the Public Service to boost its numbers by approving unnecessary appointments. 
I should have mentioned another point when referring to extra taxation. The whole of Commonwealth taxation, municipal rates, tax increases now appearing in State Budgets and all the rest of it do not tell the whole story. The Federal Government is using the Postal Department as a taxing authority. This practice reverses the whole history of telecommunications. A government sets up a post office in a country in order to establish communication with the citizens. The whole history of telecommunications and the reason why some telecommunication authorities are private and some are governmental can be traced to that point. The Government has reversed the tradition. The Post Office is no longer simply a provider of services to the people. 
The profit on telecommunications this year will be about S53m and the loss on the postal side will be about 517m. That profit of $53m is a direct tax on people who use the services of the Post Office. There has been a lot of talk about interest charged to the Post Office.  Sir Robert  Menzies once described as the most stupid suggestion he had ever heard the proposal of raising money from the taxpayers and then charging interest on it. He said that he could not think of anything more silly but that is what the Government is doing today. In the coming year the Post Office will pay interest charges" of about $14lm. Added to the profit of S53m, n makes a total of S194m. I will not' explore the other charges which will bring the total to about 8200m to be extracted from the people over and above what they are required to pay for each of the service* of the Postal Department. Why the Country Party takes this lash is quite beyond me. 
The technical section of the Post Office has done a tremendous job in spreading communications over a country of this size with so few people. Life has been made much easier for farmers, people working in outback mines and similar occupations. Nevertheless, the Government has nakedly and unashamedly turned the Post Office into a taxing authority. There is no reason why a profit of $53m should be made on telecommunications after interest charges of S141m are made on money originally taken from the pockets of the taxpayers and provided to the Post Office. 
We have heard for years about the restructuring of the taxation schedules, but where does it appear in this Budget? After almost 22 years in office the Government is doing nothing about the restructuring of the taxation system. A ridiculous situation arises when a comparison is made between 2 people who are each paying SI 00 a year to hospital and medical benefit funds to protect their families. For the person paying taxation of 50c in the $1, that contribution to a fund is reduced to $50. The Government thus allows the wealthy man to pay only $50 a year for health insurance. A person paying taxation of 10c in the $1 will receive a reduction of only $10 in respect of the SI 00 he pays for health insurance. It is a ridiculous situation. Two persons each pay to a fund the same amount of money for the same protection for their families, but in the result a wealthy person pays after his taxation deduction only $50 a year and another person will pay, after allowing for the taxation deduction, S90 a year for the same protection. 
When  Mr McMahon  was Treasurer he was quite vociferous about the taxation schedules, but nothing has been done about them. I have never heard from a member of the Liberal Party or the Country Party one word in defence of the situation. I have never heard them say that this is the type of taxation situation that ought to exist in Australia. It is hopelessly unfair. This afternoon  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said that the Government has a long record of keeping its promises. I would like him to discuss the rural finance corporation Which was mentioned in 1970. It is urgently required today. And what about the election promise of child minding centres? Nothing has been done about that. On 15th March 1971, at the advent of the McMahon Ministry, it was decided to increase pensions.  Mr McMahon  had this to say: 
We will follow this immediate increase in pension rates with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. 
Although there is not one word about that in the Budget, we are told that the Government keeps its promises. This was supposed to be the new look Government which would sweep away the old order.  Mr McMahon,  an experienced politician, said clearly and definitely that the increase in pensions of 50c a week was a recognition that his predecessor had not done the right thing, and had not done his job.  Mr McMahon's  immediate action and the words that he used then lifted the hearts of every Australian. But where is that promise reflected in the Budget? There is not one word about it. The Government has completely reversed what ought to be done. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has finally said that we are not to have a national superannuation scheme, I remember the late  Senator Sir William  Spooner saying as Minister for Social Services: 'I will not rest until I bring down a national superannuation scheme.' The Great White Master touched on this matter in the joint Opposition speech of 1949. I remember it well. 1 suffered all the lashes and indignities of being a candidate and coming to the Senate at that time. On the subject of social services  Sir Robert  Menzies said in 1949: 
Australia still needs a contributory system of national insurance- 
He could truthfully say that again today -  against sickness, widowhood, unemployment and old age. It is only under such a system that we can make all benefits a matter of right and so get completely rid of the means test. During the new Parliament we will further investigate this complicated problem with a view to presenting to you at the election of 1952 a scheme for your approval. Meanwhile, existing rates of pension will of course be at least maintained. We will, much more importantly, increase their true value by increasing their purchasing power. . . . There are also grave anomalies associated with the position of persons who have contributed for their own superannuation benefits. Without an all-round  contribtory  system, there are enormous financial barriers to an immediate abolition of the means test. 
I ask honourable senators to match those words with those of  Mr McMahon  in discussing social services today. Yet Government supporters have the hide to say here that the Liberal Party has a long record of keeping its promises. I have referred to only 1 or 2 that come readily to mind. 
We have had a period of comparative peace in Australia. We have had the Vietnam war and the Korean war but we have not had put on us the major economic problems that we knew and our fathers knew before us. Would not one think that there would be a philosophy, a vision of the future, that would stand out clearly today? We know that such problems as pollution and the overcrowding of cities have to be grappled with because we have seen those problems in other countries. In some overseas cities people are jammed in trains like sardines so that the railway system can work. That is not because there is no private transport but because the roads in such cities as Tokyo and Osaka are jammed to the absolute limit. Pollution is also a major problem in Los Angeles, New 
York, Tokyo, Osaka and other places. Only a few days ago the Press reported that children in a school playground in Osaka were collapsing in hundreds, exhausted because the photo-chemical smog was getting into their bodies. In Australia we have a glorious opportunity to dodge pollution problems. In that respect our great spaces are in our favour and not to our disadvantage. I suppose Queensland, with its decentralisation and geographic situation is the best example of how we can avoid these problems. But there is not one word in the Budget about the problems of pollution. 
What is the present situation of the rural crisis? It is true that the Government has produced palliatives. We have economic theories and political gimmicks, but is there any honest approach? Is there any standing up to be counted? Is there any standing up and saying: 'This is the situation and this is what has to be done. Here are the resources of a government which is doing something about it.' 
When we were hit the other day with the dollar-yen crisis the stunned silence of the Government was shocking. It was almost a monastic like silence. I should have thought that immediately there would have come into this Parliament to be broadcast to the people of Australia an announcement of the alternatives and the problems, telling us whether or not we should do all these various things that some people think we should do. I see that  Senator Wright  is smiling. If he wants me to repeat them I shall certainly do so. There was no analysis from the Government of the effect that we could expect if Japan, our greatest buyer of raw materials, started to reduce buying such things as minerals and wool. This is what the dollar crisis was aimed at. Minerals and wool are only 2 items that come readily to mind. 
If that situation is going to hit Australia and have an effect on our rural industries we would be, on comparative grounds, in as bad a position as we were during the depression. Because of the situation in our rural industries, only our minerals have been maintaining us. But if our sales of raw materials were to be attacked it would be a very serious thing. In my view this is the most serious situation to strike Australia since the end of the war. In monastic like silence we waited for the bells to chime to tell us what the Government was doing, but we had deathly silence day after day from the Government. I repeat that this is probably the most important and serious thing to hit this and probably other countries since the end of the war. But from the Government we have heard of no alternatives and no analysis of what might be happening. There were no warnings to those people who might be affected. I read - true, it was a newspaper report - that already one of the coal contracts with northern New South Wales has been cut by 25 per cent from, I think, 160 million tons to 120 million tons in the first week of this crisis. This was not something new; it has been talked about for 6 months. We have heard references to America embarking on a de facto devaluation of its dollar. If honourable senators flick back through the financial pages they will read of this. Surely with its resources the Government should have been in a better situation to know what was happening. 
This Budget can quite rightly be described in economic terms. It will have the effect of inflating prices and of deflating demand. It is a trojan horse Budget. Its hidden purpose is to increase unemployment drastically. In human terms - terms which the Government so frequently ignores - this Budget will cause suffering to every wage earner and, in line with consistent Government actions, it will bear most heavily on the sick, the aged and those on fixed incomes. Further, it will add 50,000 workers to the ranks of the unemployed. I know that honourable senators opposite have been bucking about this figure, but it is not my estimate; it is the estimate of  Mr Donovan,  the chief economist of W. D. Scott and Co. For these 50,000 workers and their families the Budget is a grim harbinger of poverty. Their livelihoods are being sacrificed to appease the Treasury devil of excess demand, a demand which many experts, including Professor Hall of the Austraiian National University, regard as already being overestimated. 
In the statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation on 31st August concerning
              extensions to the Perth Airport it was proposed that 1,700 acres of land on the
              eastern side of the airport should be acquired. Can the Minister name the final dale
              by which it is expected to acquire all this land? Are there some sections of the land
              which will need to be acquired significantly earlier than the final date? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice:
            
What area of office space is rented by each 
 Commonwealth Government Department in each capital city of Australia;
            and what is the rental per square foot per annum paid for such space. 
What area of office space is occupied by each Commonwealth Government Department
                in buildings owned by the Commonwealth Government in each capital city. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Post Office employ the services of private
              advertising agencies; if so, which agencies has it employed in the last 2 years and
              what has been the cost of employing each such agency. 
J ask the Minister for Civil Aviation when he will make an announcement concerning the application by Trans-Australia Airlines to operate routes in north western Australia, particularly on the Perth-Darwin route? 
1 direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, lt follows my question last Tuesday regarding the sell out of Cudgen  RZ  Ltd, Consolidated Rutile Ltd and Aberfoyle Ltd to foreign investors. Has the Government also refused to act to prevent the sale by the liquidator of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd of 4 million Robe River shares to an overseas buyer? Does the Government intend to remain inactive while Australian assets continue to pass into overseas hands? If not, what stage must this share sellout reach before the Government will step in? 
I would need to direct the honourable senator's question, which is supplementary to a question he asked last week, to the Treasurer and obtain a reply for the honourable senator as quickly as I can. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What is the cost of the Navy's public relations? 
What is the present personnel establishment of the Navy's public relations Branch? 
What are the names of those non-Service persons who have had trips in Australian naval vessels in the past 12 months and what were the details of those trips? 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister  for  Immigration upon notice: 
Has the New Zealand Government agreed to extend to all Australian citizens, regardless of ethnic origin, the right to enter New Zealand without a visa, providing that they can satisfythe authorities of their Australian citizenship? 
Has the Australian Government now decided that certain non-European New Zealand citizens must still obtain visas before entering Australia? 
What are the reasons for the refusal to reciprocate the New Zealand Government's new procedure? 
The Minister for Health made it clear in his statement on  smoking  and health to the Senate yesterday that there had been no suppression by the Government of the recommendations of the World Health Organisation in relation to the effects of smoking on health. Has the Minister received any report concerning the methods by which these recommendations may be implemented? Can the Minister say when the Government will implement the legislative recommendations of the WHO? Are there any recommendations which the Government will not implement? 
Really the honourable senator's question is directed to a matter of policy, in part if not in whole. Implementation of some of the recommendations is conditional upon what happens in the States. In all the circumstances, because of the implications of the question, I think I should take it on notice and give a considered reply to the honourable senator. Representations have been made to me. In fact, as late as this morning representations at the very highest level were made by certain groups as to what the Government should be doing in relation to these matters. I do not want to give an answer at question time which may shortweight any consideration that I . may be able to give to the quite considerable representations that have been made to me. I would like to give them a considered reply. 
Have you heard about this question before? 
Yes. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the cost of the Department of Defence's public relations? 
What is the present personnel establishment of the Department of Defence's public relations branch? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not possible to provide costs for the very wide range of activities that may be classified as having some public relations content or purpose. The amount spent on salaries and allowances of full time public relations staffs and on activities directly attributable to the functions of these staffs are as follows: 

<graphic href="049232197109152_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The present personnel establishment of the Department of Defence Public Relations Branch is: 

<graphic href="049232197109152_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, and included in the above costs, a position of Stenographer (Female), Grade 1 $3,043-$3,205, established in the Department's general typing pool, is detached for full-time duties within the Public Relations Branch. 
I would not have entered this debate but when  Senator Kane  talked about genuineness I thought it was time that somebody entered the debate. Those who have been here for more than a year or so know perfectly well that this great phoney is pulled by the Democratic Labor Party at this time each year. Its members know that perfectly well, in spite of what  Senator Kane  said. Each year the DLP amendment contains a clause which it knows the Australian Labor Party will not support. They laugh about it in the corridors. They are not ashamed to say it outside because they know perfectly well that the Labor Party will not accept clauses such as this: 
The Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by setting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates which would make a more equitable adjustment than does the provision of the Budget. 
The amendment includes clauses such as that because members of the DLP know that the Australian Labor Party will not accept that. They know that the Government will not accept that. They know perfectly well that any Party which might have to face up to the possibility of being the Government could not accept that. We have asked for inquiries to be conducted into this matter. Pensions are a part of politics. Pensions are a very important part of budgetary processes and budgetary planning. What we members of the Australian Labor Party have said about the matter is that the Government has not given the pensioners of Australia a fair go and that we would do better. That is a perfectly honest approach to make. 
We members of the Australian Labor Party do not propose to say that this question should be put to an independent body which is outside the control of this Parliament and which has no responsibility for the rest of the budgetary situation as it has to be dealt with from year to year. We have made our own criticisms on this sub ject. Honourable senators of the Australian Democratic Labor Party . know this perfectly well. They make a joke of the position in the corridors of the Parliament because they know that the Australian Labor Party cannot accept the amendment. The Liberal Party cannot accept the amendment because it is the Government. The Australian Labor Party cannot accept it because it is the alternative government and could well be the government. What sort of irresponsibility is involved in a proposal to hand this question to a body of people and say: 'You fix the amount of money that the government is to give the pensioners and it will be incorporated in a Budget'? I ask honourable senators to look at the sloppy manner in which the amendment is drawn up. It states: 
That the Budget makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme. 
Yet honourable senators of the Democratic Labor Party have only to pick up the notice paper to see that the Australian Labor Party has already had this matter referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. This is a subject on which we have criticised the Government. Let us be completely honest. The Government has made promises in regard to a national superannuation scheme but obviously has found it very heavy going. It has had to come back into the Parliament and say that it is not possible to introduce such a scheme. Therefore. I accept that difficulties are involved. 
Our own people are working on the question continuously. That is why the Australian Labor Party has submitted it to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The Committee can call all the evidence it likes from any part of Australia or any part of the world. It can examine the evidence and present its report to the Senate. The Democratic Labor Party has adopted this sloppy attitude of not even looking at this fact in moving its amendment, lt is completely phoney. The DLP uses the words 'not genuine' which are a complete description of the Party itself. Members of the DLP could have supported our amendment. It contained in a more succinct form most of the things that they are saying in their amendment. They know perfectly well that an amendment such as the one  Senator Little  has moved will not be accepted. They put up the same hoary headed things every year, knowing that they cannot be accepted. They leave this place as the poor little babes in the wood after seeing everybody else in the Senate vote against what I say is the phoniness of this amendment. 
Any party would be completely irresponsible to move away from the budgetary situation and not face up to the whole question of pensions. Of course, members of the Australian Labor Party reject the amendment. We would be the laughing stock of Australia if we were to accept the phoney things that are being advanced by this phoney party.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has put the position very well, as has  Senator Murphy.  We have adopted this attitude on every occasion. We will not be irresponsible, lt is all right for members of a knocker party who know perfectly well that they will never govern, never sit on the treasury bench, to shoot off their mouths with the greatest phoniness. This is a false approach to the very important question of the Budget. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Little's amendment)  be so added. 
I second the motion. I tried by voting against the previous proposal to indicate that there was quite a mixture in all of this. Very obviously I want to see reference to the Minister cut out, but there is another way of doing this. Had we defeated the previous proposal the Standing Orders Committee could have done the very obvious thing and put back reference to the Minister. However, it has been decided otherwise. I approach this whole question on a completely practical basis. The first time I ran up against this problem was when I was acting Whip many years ago. I found that all sorts of things happen during the course of a debate.  Senator Cant  has pointed out that if a  speaker  does not take the 30 minutes it is not lost because the debate runs to the 3- hour limit. The same situation applies in relation to those who are limited to 15 minutes. A Whip or a Leader who looks at these things finds that very few people time their speeches to finish in exactly 15 minutes. Frequently they stop after 13 minutes. It needs only 3 or 4 people to do this and an extra 8 or 10 minutes have been accumulated. This means that the extra  speaker  who gets these 8 or 10 min*utes at the end of the debate is not getting much less time than the fellow who spoke for 13 minutes. I approach this matter completely from the practical point of view. 
A lot of theory has been expressed. This is very interesting when we are thinking about things that might or might not happen. If the speaking time for the first 2 speakers is reduced to 20 minutes only ID minutes is being saved on either side. As 

 Senator Cant has explained, the full time does not have to be taken. For instance,  Senator Greenwood  moved a proposal which condemned the moratorium on Vietnam. Would it have been fair to ask him to reduce his time to 20 minutes on a subject such as that? Would it have been fair for the person in reply not to have 30 minutes to deal with a subject such as that? The whole general question of whether this moratorium should have been held was raised. Then all those incidental things were raised, such as court cases being heard, police action, the actions of the demonstrators and so on. As T say, the overall time of the debate will not be altered. 
My attitude will please some and displease others. I am going to vote to retain the 30 minutes and the 15 minutes and then I am going to desert the supporters of those proposals and vote for an overall time of 2 hours. My reason for doing this is again because of experience. Time and time again I have seen our Whip running around trying to get enough people to pad out the 3 hours. 1 would like to see written into this proposal one of two things. It might be remembered that the last time we discussed this matter we were not able to resolve it. I spoke on this matter previously and I will not repeat it. I believe that we should either have a vote always on these matters or never have a vote on them so that we do not go through the schemozzles that we have experienced. By leaving the matter up in the air we push the Government into talking out time. There is nothing worse to destroy debate. There is nothing worse to destroy any system at all than just to talk out time obviously as a filibuster. 
I regret that there are not more honourable senators in the chamber, particularly on one side, so that they might be convinced by the arguments put forward. I have been swayed quite a bit by the arguments advanced tonight.  I  think something will be lost by not allowing 30 minutes to the openers in a debate, and something will be lost also by reducing the time for subsequent speakers from 15 to 10 minutes. Honourable senators should not be misled into dividing the time allowed for each  speaker  into the total time for the debate because it rarely happens that everyone takes his full time. A  speaker  cannot go for more than 15 minutes but he may speak for less than 15 minutes. 
When  Senator Young  has a little more experience as Whip he will see that invariably enough time remains to fit in at least one more  speaker.  If honourable senators on either side want to create that situation they can do it by each  speaker  taking a few minutes less than the specified time. The 2 speakers who have 30 minutes could take 10 minutes less which would allow one other honourable senator to speak. If each of the subsequent speakers fell short of his time by 2 minutes, enough time would remain to fit in 2 more speakers. We allow ourselves a lot of flexibility in this way, but not if the times are reduced to 20 minutes and 10 minutes respectively. 
I ask through you,  Mr Chairman,  that the 30 minutes be retained. Later 1 will ask that the 15 minutes be retained. I do this as a result of the experience that I have had of the way that these things work. I can go back quite a few years now - more than I care to remember, incidentally - and remember the way that this thing has worked. What is wrong with our writing into the Standing Orders the very practice that we have built up over the years. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation. Prior to the Australian Government's acceptance of demands by the United States of America trans-Pacific carriers for increases in their capacity on this air route, did the Government suggest any counter-sanctions in response to the ban on Qantas Airways Ltd jumbos flying to America? If no counter-sanctions were suggested, what advantages were there for Qantas Airways Ltd in the agreement? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Do the figures released yesterday showing a sharp rise in approvals for private office buildings reveal that the Government's call for restraint in this area has been Jess than successful? Is the Government's reluctance to house its departments in Commonwealth offices, which was revealed in his answer to my question on 8th September and which has resulted in the necessity to pay S20m per annum in rent, only encouraging private developers to continue building office blocks? 
asked the Minister repersenting the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Whatis the cost of Army public relations? 
What is the present personnel establishment of the Army's public relations branch? 
What are the names of those non-service persons who, during the last 12 months, have been accommodated by the Armyin Army establishments and on Army manoeuvres and what was the duration of these various examples of Army hospitality? 
 I rise to speak for the first time in this debate, although anyone listening to the Democratic Labor Party would probably think that I have been the main  speaker.  I had been receiving honourable mention throughout the debate, until my old friend  Senator Byrne  disappointed me tremendously; he did not have a go at me. The honourable senator said that this proposition has been put up in isolation, but if my memory serves me correctly it has been put up in isolation before. 1 think 1 recall that a few years ago  Senator McManus  put up this proposition in isolation. Members of the Democratic Labor Party have persevered with this suggestion over the years and have used the term, which they used tonight, that the matter should be taken out of politics and placed into what I recall being referred to some years ago when we first debated this matter as a sort of arbitration court. 
The Democratic Labor Party has used the analogy that the Government does not fix wages, that this matter is put out to a separate body, and that in that pattern the question of pensions should be put to a separate body which I imagine would be an arbitration court type of body. I would not like to see a situation where we had this type of body and the Government doing what it does in arbitration court hearings, that is, opposing claims for wage increases by some body, always a trade union, or opposing a claim for reduced hours. We would finish up in a rather strange sort of situation if the Government set up a body and then said: 'Because of the situation as we see it today, we must go before this body which is deciding pensions and oppose the application for this, that and the other reason'. 
The thing that mystifies me a little is that when debating the second reading of the Bill we moved that a joint select committee be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community. The Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment, and we accepted it to try to get something through and to record some sort of expression from the Senate. But 1 should have thought that had clause 6 of our amendment been allowed to stand there would have been a better chance of the Democratic Labor Party having the type of body that it proposes at least examined. Who knows? If an inquiry were held this could be the recommendation that came back to us. Who knows what would come from an inquiry? 
Recently, in a speech that honourable senators have heard about over the last few days during the debate on this Bill, I pointed out one or two things that are already on the notice paper. Already there is a suggestion, which has not been debated, that we refer to the Standing 
Committee on Health and Welfare the incidence, distribution and causes of primary and secondary poverty in Australia and the adequacy of existing Commonwealth and State social welfare legislation. We want to have a general inquiry. We do not want to shut our minds, as  Senator Little  put it, on any question. I do not think anybody in Australia wants to do that. Although at times the Government has taken credit for what it has achieved - as  Senator Little  said, often this has been said with tongue in cheek - I do not think Government supporters are really proud of the amount of social welfare payments, nor do I think they are proud of the fact that we have 1 million people living in poverty. I give them that credit. But they find themselves in the position where they are unable, or think they are unable, to do much more about it at the time. 
As I pointed out the other night also, already we have referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. My own view, and I think the view of many people, is that until we finally solve the problem and get round to having a national insurance scheme under which people will contribute to superannuation or a pension, if one likes to call it that, until the end of one's working life, we will be bedevilled by all sorts of nuances and all sorts of things associated with social welfare. A national superannuation scheme was first suggested in 1938. It was suggested again by  Sir Robert  Menzies in his policy speech in 1949. It was promised again by  Sir William  Spooner when he was the Minister for Social Services. It was promised by  Mr Wentworth,  who finally has told us that he was unable to go on with it. I know that in the Australian Labor Party  Mr Hayden  and his committee have been working incessantly on the problem. 
My own belief is that no matter what we do, until we finally come up with the answer to this problem we will have debates for as long as this Parliament is here. The DLP is putting up for the umpteenth time the question of taking this problem out of this Parliament. It is a matter that cannot be taken out of politics. Honourable senators should not fall for that suggestion. It will always be in the realm of poltics. What we have said is that until we can have a superannuation scheme with a revolving fund, if that is the correct term, where we provide social services for one's industrial life it will be the responsibility of this and future governments to decide what social welfare should be provided. This question has not been simple. 
I invite honourable senators to consider the adjuncts to the main areas of social welfare. The Government has always been very proud to point these out. Many years ago it was decided that there was a problem of accommodation. An attempt was made to overcome the accommodation problem by making special payments. 1 do not think that has worked out as satisfactorily as it might have done. Nevertheless, this is one of the things that has been done. The question of transport has been considered, and the question of medical services has been investigated. AH the decisions were made by the government of the day. That indicates that those governments were not happy with the situation in respect of social services as at the time. We put our position now, as we have always put it. If we thought that the setting up of an independent tribunal would automatically solve the problem we would vote for the amendment. We do nol believe that it would. We do not believe that it would be taking social services out of the realm of politics. Do members of the DLP think that wages and conditions are out of the realm of politics merely because a court of conciliation and arbitration was set up in the early 1900s? I do not think anybody would suggest that. The Government would not avoid or dodge its responsibilities by setting up an independent tribunal. 
I cannot understand why previously the DLP did not vote for our proposed inquiry because, if our motion had been carried here and in another place, the DLP might well have got at least a step nearer to the fulfilment of the proposition that it has been putting in this place for some time. I reiterate the things that I have had to reiterate on more occasions than I care to remember and point out that I do not think that an independent tribunal is the answer to the problem. I think that under the present set up the establishment of such a tribunal would be an avoidance of responsibility by the government of the day, whatever that government may be. I believe that it would be economically impossible to divorce the determinations of the tribunal from the Government's budgetary considerations each August. 
I move: 
That the subject matter of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill be covered in the debate on the Post and Telegraph Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has any inquiry been made by any agency of the Commonwealth into the likely costs and benefits to Australia, as distinct from Armco, of the Jervis Bay steelworks proposal; if not, will the Minister have such an inquiry instituted as a matter of urgency. 
We are opposed to the Post and Telegraph Bill and the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill and intend to move the amendment which is being circulated at the moment. I gave notice of the proposed amendment yesterday to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair),  and the independent senators. It is becoming a regular practice to increase postal charges. I do not think it is sufficient for the Government to write this off simply by saying that we are in an inflationary period in which wages and costs are rising. On previous occasions the Opposition has moved that the whole question of the Post Office, and particularly its management, should be referred to an inquiry. After 70 years of operation no outside inquiry has been conducted into the Post Office, as distinct from its internal departmental inquiries which have taken place from time to time. 
After more than 70 years of operation an inquiry into the Post Office is due. An investigation should be conducted to determine whether the Post Office should be under direct ministerial control, whether the central body of the Public Service Board should still be administering the Post Office, or whether it should be conducted by a statutory body a practice which has been so successful with TransAustralia Airlines, the Commonwealth Bank, the Snowy Mountains Authority and similar bodies of which honourable senators are aware. 
Our proposals have always been rejected by the Senate in the past so on this occasion we will move an amendment in different terms. To the motion that the Bill be now read a second time I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because the increased charges are against the national interest and because the Bill does not provide for (a) the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board and (b) the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its Authorities.' 
The Post Office is the biggest employer of labour in Australia. It employs about 112,000 people, and that is a big work force, even when compared to enterprises such as that conducted by Broken Hill Pty Co. Limited. I do not know whether the situation still applies, but at one time the Post Office employed 4 times as many people as the next biggest employer in Australia. The Post Office, as an employer of about 112,000 people, is by far the biggest responsibility of the Public Service Board. About 47 per cent of employees covered by the Public Service Board are employed by the Post Office. The PostmasterGeneral's Department has fixed assets of $2,410m. An interesting fact is that 95 per cent of those assets are tied up in what we call the telecommunications side of its activities. Today this deals largely with telephone services. The rates charged for telegram services have reached such an enormous cost and the slowness with which telegrams are delivered present such a poor picture in comparison with the use of telephones that the result is that telephone services have taken over substantially from the telegraphic side of activities. 
If anyone wishes to move the old amendment that the Opposition used to move on Bills of this kind which sought to refer this matter to a body which would investigate, first, as our present amendment suggests, taking the control of the Post Office away from the Public Service Board which, ipso facto, raises the second point of whether or not the Postal Department should be a statutory body away from the control of a Minister, we would certainly be happy to look at that amendment because we have proposed it in the past and we still believe in those objectives. As we have failed with that amendment when it has been moved on previous occasions and as we are getting a little tired of butting our heads- 
Honourable senators will be aware that this and the Post and Telegraph Bill have been debated in a cognate manner. I merely point out that this is the Bill that will increase the charges; this is the Bill that will enable the telecommunications side of the Postmaster-General's Department to double its profit - not its loss - of last year. For that reason the Opposition will call for a division and oppose the Third reading. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
This Bill was debated as part of the cognate debate on this and the Post and Telegraph Bill. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in this place, has invited much criticism of his replies because of the very weak nature of them. But as he has asked that we hurry this Bill through because the GovernorGeneral may have other duties, we will not debate the matter any further. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
 I will be very brief, because the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has indicated that he would like this measure passed this afternoon. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  It is very clear that the basis of the amendment proposed by the Democratic Labor Party is the tactic used by a DLP senator on a previous occasion. Whoever votes for the proposed amendment votes for the Bill and the increased charges. I hope 1 made it clear on behalf of the Australian Labor Party when moving my amendment that we opposed these Bills because we are opposed to the increased charges. We added as a rider that because of all the other activities of the Post Office today we were moved to make our proposal. The Senate in its wisdom has rejected that proposal and it is now a dead issue. Under any other than the present circumstances we would be prepared to support the points raised in  Senator Gair's  amendment. If he likes to give the necessary notice and move this as a motion, say, next Tuesday, we will support it. We do not want to pre-empt him. We do not want to take any kudos - if he thinks there is some attached to this. We leave it completely in his court. If he moves this as a motion, we will support it. That will ensure that the matter will go to the Committee for investigation. But, obviously, when we have said that we are opposed to these increased rates and that we will not vote for this legislation, we cannot support this amendment, because it seeks to add certain words at the end of the motion "That the Bill be now read a second time'. This means that if we voted for this amendment we would be voting for this Bill and therefore for the increased charges, and that is exactly the opposite of what we want to do. So, we cannot support this amendment. But we will support this wording if  Senator Gair  likes to divorce it from the legislation to increase postal charges. We are opposed to the increases in postal charges. We want that to be completely clear. I advise those people who wish to support the increases in postal charges to vote for  Senator Gair's  amendment. 
I will be brief in dealing with these 3 Bills, because one principle is common to each of them. I have one or two comments to make to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to be noted for future occasions. I am emboldened to make those comments by a passage in the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
As I have already said when introducing the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill, the Government will be examining simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results than the notional salary method of adjustment adopted in this Bill, with a view to future application on a regular basis. 
I ask the Minister whether, in the time that has elapsed between the making of that statement in another place and now, progress has been made on which he could comment. I think we are all worried about this whole question of a notional system, particularly ex-members of the Services and members of the Services who are even more closely affected. Perhaps the Minister could give us at this stage some idea of the thinking of the Superannuation Board and himself. We would be given an opportunity for constructive debate and criticism, not now, but by the people who will be the eventual beneficiaries. 
I have several comments on the notional system. This is an admission that inflation is earing so badly into superannuation schemes that something has to be done. It is not new. It has been done several times before. The weakness of this scheme is that it devolves on the government of the day to decide, or the department to suggest to the government, that it is time this scheme was re-examined. I think it is now 4 years since the last adjustment was made, is it not? 
Yes, 4 years. That is a long time, particularly when a person has retired. Under the Act, a person can retire at 66 years of age. Perhaps it is not long from 20 to 24 years of age, but I imagine that from 66 to 70 years of age would seem to be a very much longer period. It seems to me that something ought to be done for the people who are affected by this system. After all, some of them have paid into the scheme for 50 years of their working lives, and they have a limited amount of life left. It seems to me that a period of 4 years is far too long and that this matter should be put on a better basis. Perhaps the pensions should be reviewed annually or every 2 years. Perhaps the Government should say that adjustments will be made automatically when the amount drops below a certain figure or a certain percentage of some index. I do not want to suggest a percentage. 
There is something which I would like to see done and which would perhaps be the ultimate; but I concede that it may present some problems departmentally. The Government has admitted already that this situation is recurring because of the inflationary spiral. The Government says: We are prepared to acknowledge this and to increase the government supplement'. Should not that be written into the Act so that it will operate automatically at one of the given points? There is no argument of principle about this. The Government is doing it now. It is just a question of whether the Government will take the next step and let everybody know where he stands. I believe that as far as possible the rule of law should be written into all legislation; that things should not be left to the whim of the department or the Minister or government of the day. I believe that this is a broad principle that could be written into the Act at this stage. 
There is a weakness in the scheme. Under the notional system the Government pays its supplement. During a person's industrial life he pays about 30 per cent and when he retires the Government supplements that to the extent of 70 per cent. Incidentally, those are rough figures because it does not necessarily work out at 70 per cent; it can work out at 60 per cent. I do not want to go into the accounting side of it at this stage. The attitude that the Government is taking is: 'We pay in our section, but the pensioner cannot be paid that in full because he is not paying in his section'. When a person has retired, how can he do that? He is no longer receiving a salary from which he can pay his contribution. His pension is based on his salary during his industrial life; but when he retires he is no longer receiving his salary and therefore he cannot pay his contribution. If the person lives long enough to reduce the value of the 30 or 40 per cent that the Government expects him to contribute, it is obvious that the graph then runs down pretty rapidly, because his contribution is based on what the Government expects him to be able to live on for the remaining years of his life, after the 30, 40 or in some cases 50 years he has spent in the Public Service. So, this partial system is operating against the pensioner. 
The cruel part of it is that the system is bedevilled by one or two factors. One is that the citizen who has had a large family or has incurred sickness or other heavy expenses is the one who is unable to take out all the units to which he is entitled. Incidentally, it is probably time the Superannuation Board looked at the unit system itself. It has many bad features. This second factor is quite beyond anybody's control: The fact that we have had rapid inflation over the last few years means that when a person becomes entitled to additional units as a result of moving into a higher salary bracket, because of general salary increases or because of the rapid expansion of the Public Service providing opportunities for promotion in the latter part of his industrial life, he has to pay a very high rate for those units. It is not unusual now to see $70, $80, $90 or $100 a fortnight coming out of the pay of civil servants for superannuation. This is getting out of all proportion. The Board has grappled with this problem at times by using other systems with respect to units. But I do not think they are working out successfully. 
My final point is that I do not think the Government's public relations on this matter have been very good. When the period since the last adjustment extended into the fourth year, many people - not only myself but members from all sides and both Houses of the Parliament - were making inquiries, until finally we received answers to our questions. I know that I received one in which the Government said definitely: 'We will be looking at this matter in the Budget'. Obviously the Government must have known that there was a fair amount of disaffection on the part of the people receiving pensions and also their former trade union associations. The Government ought to have made it clear even before last year's Budget that if it did not propose to deal with the matter in that Budget it certainly would deal with it in the next one. The Government should not have wailed for the probing to take place before it finally came clean and told us what the story was. In the interests of the Superannuation Board, that would have been a very good public relations exercise. We support this legislation, of course, because it implements what has been the system up until now. But the Government itself has said that it is not particularly happy with this notional scheme. So I am wondering whether  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson could indicate what the Government has in mind for the future. We support the 3 Bills. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5.1) - in reply - I do not think there would be very much, if anything, that has been said by either the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  with which  I  or anyone else in this chamber would disagree in broad principle. It is true that these 3 Bills represent a charge against the revenue of $ 11.6m this year and $15. 5m in a full year. It is true also - I do not think this is arguable - that, because of the effluxion of time between the last rime this matter was dealt with, in 1967, and our coming to look at it again, there is some degree of hardship, particularly for the contributors. Of course, this problem is not peculiar to superannuation schemes; it rears its head in other schemes and other circumstances. 

 Senator Willesee referred to the notional system. He would be a stout-hearted Minister who, off the cuff, would embark upon an exposition of that system.  Senator Willesee  has had more experience of these matters than  i  have had, because in other years he represented other people and had some knowledge of them. In responding to what he said about public relations,  I  acknowledge that a statement was made that this matter had to be looked at. 1 recall that, very naturally, discussions were held with the professional officer and various other groups associated with the Commonwealth Public Service in relation to this issue. I asked the officers here with me to refresh my memory on this, and they confirm that my memory is fairly accurate.  I  recall that the professional officer groups favoured the notional system in the circumstances in which we find ourselves. Whether they would have favoured the notional system if we were reviewing the matter more frequently and trying to keep abreast of other movements rather than letting the matter go for 4 years, I would not know. But I understand that in the discussions that, very properly, took place the professional officer groups tended to favour the notional system, in these circumstances, as the one more likely to give equity to the pensioners involved. 
I do not know whether they would have taken that view if, for instance, we had a fixed system. I do not think any of us would disagree that it would be desirable to have a fixed system so that adjustments would become almost automatic and would not be involved in the legislative process. If they are involved in the legislative process, I think there is a tendency for adjustments not to be made as often as they need to be made. I did state in my second reading speech that the Government was concerned to determine whether a better scheme could be evolved. In these circumstances the notional system has developed. 
As I have stated, I will not embark upon an exposition of this system. 1 hope that  Senator Willesee  will not question me fully on the prepared paper thai I have here on this subject. I will hand it to him later. I have tried to have this matter reduced to its simplest form. When these Bills have been disposed of and this paper has been circulated to honourable senators, I will be perfectly happy to ask the Treasury to provide further explanations of the system that may be sought. The note that I have states that under the notional salary method of adjustment the employer's share of pension is increased to reflect increases in pension entitlements that have occurred after the pensioner's retirement. This is done by comparing the pension entitlement al retirement with that of a person employed at the selected adjustment date - 30 June 1971 on this occasion - who holds the same classification or grading as the pensioner held when he retired. It may be necessary to go back 10 years to establish this rate. It could easily be that period. This is done to find comparable circumstances. Let me give now a simple example. If the pensioner was a lineman grade  2  at retirement the pension unit entitlement at 30th June 1971 of a lineman grade 2 is determined. The pension increase that is payable is the Consolidated Revenue Fund share - $65 per annum - of the pension units by which the pension entitlement of a lineman grade 2 has increased between the date of the pensioner's retirement and 30th June 1971. From this amount is deducted any earlier pension increases that the pensioner has received. As well an adjustment is made if the pensioner did not retire on his maximum pension unit entitlement. So, this is the equation that must be arrived at. 
The notional system is one with many complexities. Nevertheless, the most equitable manner of dealing with this matter is represented by the Bill that is before the Senate on this occasion. The Government and, I am sure, the professional officers concerned, will be looking for a system that is less complicated. Certainly I think that it is unarguable that it would be desirable to have the scheme adjusted more frequently than on the 4-year cycle that we have had. I am grateful that the Opposition will give a speedy passage to the 3 Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from Committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Has the Department of Civil Aviation given permission for converted Electra freight aircraft to operate for 24 hours a day from all airports, including those which at present have a curfew period? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the recent sharp decline in the Japanese wool yarn futures market? As this decline can weaken the demand for Australian wool at future auction sales, what initiative does the Government propose to combat the rapidly worsening crisis in the wool industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Post Office recently adopted the practice that, if a person or company in a city area rents a private mail box, all mail is eventually delivered to the box whether addressed to the box or to the street address; if so, is mail which is addressed to a street number, invariably delayed in reaching the box number. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did  Mr W.  S. Bengtsson, a Director of W. D and H. O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd in a statement made on 8th September 1971, claim that there is no scientific proof that cigarette smoking is a dangerous health hazard, and does the Minister agree that this statement is false. 

 Mr W. S. Bengtsson, a Director of W. D. and H. O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd was reported as having made a statement to a newspaper claiming that there is no scientific proof that cigarette smoking is a dangerous health hazard. The Government, having regard to the medical view which has been clearly expressed that there is a proven relationship between cigarette smoking and medical health, has recognised that smoking is a health problem. This is contrary to the views attributed to  Mr Bengtsson. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: (1.) How many bales of wool does the Australian Wool Commission have in storage. 
What is the average weekly storage cost per bale incurred by the Australian Wool Commission in holding its wool. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the total number of bales of wool acquired by the Australian Wool Commission, and what was the total cost of acquiring this wool. 
How much of the wool purchased by the Australian Wool Commission has been re-sold, and what was the amount of profit or loss incurred in this re-sale. 
What is the average holding time of a bale of wool between its acquisition by the Australian Wool Commission and its re-sale. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What are the leasing arrangements between the Australian Post Office and Television Corporation 
Ltd for the provision of coaxial cable facilities, and what revenue does the Australian Post Office derive from these leasing arrangements. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Health. In view of the statement by the PostmasterGeneral that cigarette advertising on television should not be banned because the commercial stations need the revenue, I ask: Will the Minister confirm that in this matter the Government places a higher value on commercial profit than the health of the community? 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry 1 refer to the use of the pesticide lindane to combat the current locust plague. Having regard to the health of humans and the environment generally, is it a fact that the pesticide malathion would be the best choice but that because of its higher cost its use has been rejected by all agencies other than the Victorian Government? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to giving financial assistance to agencies such as the New South Wales Government so that the best and least ecologically damaging pesticide may be used against this locust plague? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the cost of the Royal Australian Air Force's public relations. 
What is the present personnel establishment of the RAAF public relations branch. 
What are the names of those non-service persons who have made flights on RAAF aircraft (other than VIP aircraft) in the past 12 months and what were the details of those flights. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Are hospitals or State governments still making payments on behalf of pensioner patients because of delays in implementing the recommendations of the Nimmo report? Can the Minister say when the recommendations regarding this matter will be implemented? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science: 
Have the Department of Education and Science and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs conducted an investigation into complaints that a group of Aboriginals, undertaking a management training course in Canberra 4 weeks ago, were receiving grants smaller than those which would have been paid to Europeans in their position? If so, what was the result of the investigation? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: On what date was a writ in the name of the Australian National Airlines Commission issued out of the High Court of Australia claiming unspecified damages against the Commonwealth and Canadian Pacific Airlines Ltd? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government refused to prevent the sale by the liquidator of Mineral Securities Australia Limited of 4 million Robe River Limited shares to an overseas buyer. 
Does the Government intend to remain inactive while Australian assets pass into overseas bands; if not, at what stage will the Government act to prevent this situation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The parcel of 4 million shares, representing about a 10 per cent interest in Robe River Ltd, was part of the assets of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd. (In Liquidation) offered for sale by the 
Official Liquidator by way of public tender. Australian interests had full opportunity to lender. For the Government to have sought to prevent the sale in these circumstances would have required it to overrule a decision of an officer of the Court and could have jeopardised the interests of the shareholders and creditors of the company. 
The Government's policy in respect of investment in Australia by overseas interests was set out in a statement in Parliament on 16th September 1969, by the former Prime Minister. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Has any hospital benefits association been investing on the speculative market? Does the Government exercise any control over the investment of moneys by health funds? 
I am not aware of the methods of investment of the reserves of the health funds. I would like to take the question on notice to give a more comprehensive answer to it. My clear understanding at the moment is that the Commonwealth would be concerned to ensure that the reserves of a fund are so protected as to enable that fund at all times be able to pay the claims that are made upon it. Nevertheless, this is a matter that perhaps could be enlarged upon. Tomorrow I shall give a considered further answer to the honourable senator's question. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: On what date does Qantas Airways Ltd's recently renewed option on the Concorde aircraft expire? Has the Government or Qantas commissioned any investigation by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or any other body into the effects of supersonic transport planes on the upper atmosphere? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What is the composition of the Committee of Inquiry, appointed to investigate the adequacy of scientific and technological information services in Australia, which was announced in the Press statement of the Vice-President of the Executive Council on 7th May 1971, and when is this Committee expected to present its report. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many applications for the installation of telephones in Mount Isa are still outstanding. 
Has the Australian Post Office informed shopowners in the East Street shopping centre of Mount Isa that, due to a lack of funds for cable laying, they must wait until March 1973 for the installation of telephones. 
Is the Australian Post Office currently laying cables at the Mount Isa Mines owned satellite town of Hilton, which is thirteen miles north of the city, if so, are the telephone needs of Hilton residents more pressing than those of Mount Isa city residents. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Of the nursing home patients in respect of whom Commonwealth benefits are payable, what percentage are in nursing homes operated by non-profit organisations and what percentage are in nursing homes operated by profit oriented organisations? 
I am able to extract that information from a document that I have before me. As at 30th June, 46,750 beds in nursing homes attracted the Commonwealth benefit. It will be appreciated that that is the total number of beds in hospitals, nursing homes and institutions and that it does not necessarily follow that at all times there are 46,750 people in those places. The 46,750 beds which attract the Commonwealth benefit are in 1,194 nursing homes. No less than 823 of those nursing homes are privately conducted, 320 are run by voluntary organisations and 51 are owned and controlled by State governments. No less than 54 per cent of the 46,750 beds are in privately conducted homes. I know that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was merely seeking information, but perhaps I could add that we have an equal responsibility to folk in those homes and to patients in nursing homes conducted by voluntary organisations and the States. It is the care of the patient which is the profound consideration in this matter - not the issue of who conducts the hospital or home. 
I refer the Minister for Civil Aviation to the answer which he gave to my question yesterday about the Concorde. As the Australian Academy of Science has been asked for a judgment on the effect of the Concorde on the upper atmosphere, I ask: First, could the Minister ensure that Qantas Airways Limited does not take up its Concorde options until after the Academy has published its report? Secondly, can the Minister give an assurance that he will match the atmospheric study against the economic study before Qantas exercises its options on the Concorde? Thirdly, will the Minister make the reasons for his decisions public? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the United Slates of America Food and Drug Administration require strong warnings of potential hazards to be placed on the labels of laundry and dishwater detergents. 
What procedure does the Department of Health employ to monitor information from overseas about health hazards from commercial products. 
What liaison exists between the Department of Health and those State agencies responsible for labelling controls on potentially hazardous substances. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. The warnings required by the Food and Drug Administration relate to specific toxic constituents of the detergent product and their potential hazard as eye or skin irritants, or the hazards if swallowed. 
In Australia similar warnings would be required if the product contained a scheduled poison. This is a matter for each State, the Commonwealth being responsible only in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. 
Such information is obtained mainly through the following sources: 
Information supplied from Australia's overseas posts. 
Study of overseas legislation. 
Study of relevant journals and periodicals. 
The Poisons Schedule Sub-Committee of the 
National Health and Medical Research Council is the main avenue through which liaison is effected. In addition, the Public Health Branch of my Department maintains a continuous liaison with Stale Departments of Health. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I ask for leave to propose a motion that the Senate take note of the paper. I would like to speak for 3 or 4 minutes on this ministerial statement if leave is granted. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper.  The first point that I wish to make is this: In his statement, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said that the transfers of personnel will be from capital cities to country areas. As the Senate knows, a ministerial statement was made on this reorganisation a little while ago. That statement caused quite a deal of concern among postal staffs. The only figures that I have before me deal with New South Wales because the unions which have given these papers to me have not had time to go through the various States to establish the position in each of them. Looking at what is proposed, it seems to me that unless more alterations are proposed that do not appear in the second ministerial statement there would be a transfer of people not from capital cities to country areas but from some country areas to other country areas with the exception of Canberra where staff would be transferred into Canberra, that is, into a capital city and not out of a capital city. This fact throws quite a different light on the whole question of decentralisation and the areas to which staff will be transferred. 
The other point - and  Senator Greenwood  will remember this because he paid a deal of attention to my speech on the recent legislation dealing with postal charges - is that I pointed out previously that obviously a breakdown in personnel work had occurred from either the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  or the Department onwards. The proposed reorganisation was a shock to those people in the trade unions within the Post Office who are concerned with this matter. A furore resulted from this proposal. The results of this agitation have been brought to the ears of the Postmaster-General by members on all sides of the Parliament. Honourable senators will notice that the AttorneyGeneral, speaking on behalf of the Postmaster-General, stated that: 
Firstly, approximately two-thirds oยฃ district staff that was proposed to be transferred or moved by promotion or otherwise will remain where it is at present located. 
This underlines the point that I have made. It is obvious that a breakdown in personnel work has occurred because it has been found now that it is possible to move onethird only of the people about whom the Minister spoke previously. So I put it to the Minister that very obviously a breakdown occurred between the organisation and the unions and the people concerned. Personnel work is always very ticklish because people are being dealt with. The Government was saying to the people concerned: 'We intend to move you lock, stock and barrel. You will be transferred'. Some of them were going from areas where they are buying their homes. There was no consultation with the unions or the people concerned as to what was to happen to their homes, what was to happen in regard to the education of their children, or that type of thing. 
Obviously, the situation has been handled very badly. The best we can say about the latest statement is that it appears to be an improvement. I saw this statement only yesterday. Obviously 1 saw it before the Attorney-General read it tonight because I am interested in this matter. All I can say is that what is proposed now is a little better than what was proposed before. I do hope that on this occasion the personnel communication has not broken down and that the unions and the people concerned are very clear about what is to be done. 
I wonder whether I might make a request of the Attorney-General. I request that he see the Postmaster-General and give us even more information. It should be possible by now, because this position has now developed over a few weeks, to find out the number of people involved and even their classifications. I do not see any great difficulty about that, particularly in an engineering section. I request that he give us, as near to exactly as he possibly can, the classifications of the people who will be transferred, the number of people who will be transferred and what centres they will be coming from and going to. I would like him to check up on this matter because it could well be that my information is lacking as I have only the New South Wales figures. In this case I do not see that the people concerned are being transferred from cities to country areas at all. From memory and without going through the notes that I have, I think the people in the area of Gosford were being transferred to Sydney. If this is true, and unless I have misread it, this document is inclined to give a false impression. I promised not to speak for very Jong. So I now seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister  for Air, upon notice: 
What will be the total cost of the Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft return flight to Teheran carrying the Governor-General and his party? 
What considerations convinced the Minister that the use of a VIP aircraft was justified in this instance, rather than the use of scheduled airline services? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister heed the call of the  Chairman  of the Government Members' Health Committee,  Mr D.  J. Hamer, M.P., who yesterday advocated a total ban on all forms of cigarette advertising? 
Does the Minister disagree in any way with  Mr Hamer  s view that the effect of the massive advertising campaign is to increase the number of cigarettes being smoked? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1)I have noted the views of the  Chairman  of the Government Members' Health Committee in relation to the banning of cigarette advertising. 
It is presumed that the purpose of cigarette advertising is to promote the consumption of cigarettes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Director-General of Health submitted a report to the Government on the World Health Organisation recommendations on smoking? If so, will the Minister publish the report as requested by the Australian Council on Smoking and Health? 
What has the Government done to implement the World Health Organisation recommendations? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Director-General of Health has drawn my attention to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation on smoking. These recommendations are very similar to the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which have been studied by the Government. The views of the Government in this matter have been stated on a number of occasions. 
The recommendations contained in the World Health Organisation's report are mainly concerned with the areas of health education on smoking; warning labels on cigarette packets; restrictions on the contents of cigarette smoke; and other recommendations regarding taxation measures in respect of tobacco. These latter recommendations would of course come within the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Treasurer. So far as the other recommendations are concerned,- I should firstly  state  that the action which the Commonwealth  can take in  these areas  is  limited.  Major areas  of responsibility  lie  within the jurisdiction of the individual State Governments. In  the  mainland Territories,  the  Commonwealth  has  intensified health education programmes  to  discourage smoking, and  is co-operating  with the education authorities  in  developing effective health education programmes  in the  health aspects of smoking. 
Concerning warning labels on cigarette packets  the  Commonwealth Government has undertaken  to  introduce complementary legislation when all  State  Governments  have  implemented measures requiring such labels. 
Action has also been taken by the Commonwealth Government  to  curtail the advertising of cigarettes on television and radio. The voluntary code governing such advertisements was recently revised, in  co-operation  with the cigarette manufacturers, media representatives and broadcasting authorities, to both restrict the times at which cigarette advertisements may be shown and to shift the emphasis of these advertisements away from young people, particularly children. The revised code took effect from 1st October 1971. 
asked the Minister  for  Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received any report concerning the methods by which the recommendations of the World Health Organization, in regard to smoking and health, may be implemented? 
When will the Government implement the legislative recommendations of the World Health Organization, and are there any recommendations which the Government will not implement? 
The  answer  to the honourable senators question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to question No. 1359. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are the details of the common method of scrutiny and assessment of Pacific air service capacities, established in the United States of America-Australia Agreement announced by the Minister on 19th September 1971. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are the noise levels generated during take-off by the following aircraft (A) Boeing 707, (B) Boeing 727, (C) Boeing 747, (D) Douglas DC-8, (E) Douglas DC-9, (F) Fokker F27, (G) Fokker F28, and (H) Lockheed Electra. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
How many take-offs  and  landings per week between 11 p.m. and 6  a.m.  does Ansett Airlines of Australia propose to  make with  its converted Electra freighter aircraft  at (a)  Sydney, (b) Brisbane and (c) Adelaide. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen reports that Japanese imports of Australian coal, iron ore, bauxite and alumina are to be significantly reduced. 
What effects will this reduction have on the economy and, in particular, on development projects in northern Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Who holds the contract for mail deliveries between  Darwin  and Croker Island, in the Northern  Territory, and  how frequent are deliveries  by  this  service. 
Have certain  mail parcels been  subject to  delays  of a  month  or  more  in  transit  between Darwin  and  Croker  Island. 
Is the delay in the delivery of mail parcels to Croker Island designed to encourage residents to use the more expensive air-freight service rather than the postal service. 
Who operates the air-freight service to Croker Island. 
Yesterday, in answer to Question No. 1456, the Minister for Civil Aviation  stated  that figures for the noise level generated by Electra aircraft on take-off are not available. On 5th October the Minister said that the Department of Civil Aviation had checked the whole noise level pattern when Electras were going to be used and had assured the Minister that there was no problem; hence permission was given. 1 now ask the Minister: As no figures with respect to Electra noise level are available, how is the Minister able to give an assurance that the noise level pattern has been checked and presents no problem? 
I ask the Minister for Health this question: Has the  Deputy  Director-General of Health recommended that to deter unnecessary use of drugs pensioners should pay a fee for pharmaceutical benefits? Does the Minister agree? Does he agree that the present pharmaceutical system is encouraging over-use of drugs? If so, does he think that this over-prescribing is in the hands of the doctors rather than in the hands of the pensioners? 
I saw in the Press a comment on this issue. T have been informed that, as it appeared, it rather attributed to the Deputy DirectorGeneral of Health some comments which were in fact views expressed by a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits, before which Committee the Deputy Director-General was giving evidence. Therefore the subject was one that emerged not from the views expressed by the Deputy Director-General but rather from views expressed by one of the members of the Committee when they were discussing this aspect. For that reason I think it would be quite unfair to the Deputy Director-General to attribute to him the views as expressed and as I read them on Saturday morning, I think, in one of the inter-city papers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the value of Government and Wheat Levy Funds provided for the support of the North West Wheat Research Institute at Narribri during each of the last five years? 
Is there any indication that work at the Institute may need to be curtailed due to an anticipated shortage of funds? 
What plans exist to ensure an adequate provision of funds to continue the important work of this Institute? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister consulted his relevant Government colleagues and Slate Fisheries Ministers to ascertain the effects upon the Australian fishing and oyster industries of introducing the recommended maximum mercury content limit? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. The implementation or otherwise of the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council on this subject is a matter for decision by the individual States. 
asked the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen allegations by a number of highly qualified migrants that, prior to their migration, they were given inadequate and misleading information regarding their prospects of employment in the New South Wales Stale teaching service? 
Will overseas migration officers, in future, emphasise to all prospective leacher-migrants that it is essential to have a diploma of education, or its equivalent, before a person can be employed as a teacher in New South Wales? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Supply aware that cars ducoed in black absorb heat more readily and suffer a higher interior temperature than cars ducoed in lighter colours? Has he seen reports of research which shows that black cars are more accident prone than white cars? In view of these facts, will he take steps to phase out black cars from the Commonwealth transport service and have them replaced by ones ducoed in white or other light colours? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories table in the Senate or make available to senators the report on the Gazelle Peninsula troubles which was prepared by Professor Richard Salisbury? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Government currently preparing legislation to regulate the conduct of motor vehicle insurance companies? 
Will the Minister give consideration to the statement of the  President  of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria calling on the Federal Government to introduce interim measures to deal with motor vehicle insurance and to protectthe public from what he described as those companies who use the lure of low premiums and have totally inadequate resources to back them up? 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, but the proposed legislation is intended to supervise all companies carrying on insurance business other than life insurance. 
All suggestions made in connexion with the proposed legislation are being taken into consideration. 
The Opposition does not intend to take the adjournment of this Bill, as would be customary in normal circumstances.  Mr President,  as you know, this Bill was dealt with very rapidly in another place. The reasons why it was introduced have been outlined. It will ensure that the normal services of government can continue beyond the date to which Parliament has agreed, 30th November, until 17th December. By that time the Budget and its associated papers will have been dealt with by both Houses of Parliament. Then the normal machinery will be set in action to take the services past 17th December to the new year. For that reason the Opposition wishes to facilitate the passage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain how the Cambodian Government has accepted Australia's offer to train Cambodian troops in Vietnam when both the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence say that no offer has been made and that the Cabinet had simply agreed in principle to discuss the training of Cambodians, subject to suitable arrangements? 
1 ask the Minister for Health this question: Are oysters from the Georges River in Sydney brought to Canberra for consumption? Is there anything in the reports that due to sewage pollution of the river oysters from that source contain bacteria which may cause typhoid or hepatitis? Does the Department of Health carry out tests in this regard? 
Coming to Canberra? 
What I referred to as a State matter is not the bringing of the oysters to Canberra but the question of the wholesomeness of the oysters from a health point of view. Yesterday I was asked a question concerning what is almost a related matter, that is the condition of canned tuna that is sold in this country. I said I would seek some information about it, and  I  will also seek information about the oysters which are the subject of the honourable senator's question. 1 repeat, however, that if oysters grown in Botany Bay or the Hawkesbury River or anywhere else in New South Wales are infected to the extent that they become dangerous to health that would be primarily a matter for the New South Wales Minister for Health. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has the Prime Minister assured British officials that measures will be taken to control securities markets in Australia? If he has, can the 
Leader of the Government say whether he was expressing a Government decision or a personal opinion? 
asked the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the New South Wales Department ul' Education discontinued nearly SO migrant education classes because of a request from the Department of Immigration to restrict spending in this area? 
What similar action, if any, is being taken in other States? (.3) Will the Minister take action to recommence these classes forthwith, as the classes, especially those teaching English, are vital to the assimilation of migrants into the community? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company Australia Pty Ltd refused to supply the Australian company of De Neefe Signs Pty Ltd with reflective materials; if so, is this refusal connected with the fact that De Neefe Signs has developed a reflective sheeting called Australite' which is competitive with 'Scotchlite' made by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company. 
Will the Minister take steps to prevent this attempt by a giant overseas-owned corporation to strangle, economically, a small Australian company. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Do the figures released on 27th September 1971 which show a sharp rise in approvals for private office building, indicate that the Government's call for restraint in this area has been unsuccessful. 
Does the Government's reluctance to house its departments in Commonwealth offices and, as revealed in the Minister's answer to my question on 8th September 1971, the resulting necessity to pay $20m per annum in rent, encourage private developers to continue building office blocks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Minister directed the Department of National Development to prepare a White Paper on Australia's policy towards the minerals industry, and has publication of this While Paper been postponed because of objections from the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
Can the Minister indicate how long this ministerial disagreement is likely to continue and when this important White Paper islikely to be published. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 Senator adjourned at 11 p.m. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the pharmaceuticals and toilet preparations industry, which has 68 per cent tariff protection, been revealed by a Tariff Board report to have the highest operating profit on capital funds employed of any industry? Are most of the companies in this industry fully overseas owned? If so, should the Government continue to provide high tariff protection to guarantee excessive profits for overseas companies? 
-] ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: ls it a fact that this Government - the LiberalCountry Party Government of which he is a member - has on 2 occasions made protests to the French about the exploding of nuclear weapons in the Pacific? 
Yes, it has. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications for Australian citizenship have been (a) refused, and (b) deferred, in each of the past 10 years, on the grounds of inadequate knowledge of English. 
What procedure does the Department of Immigration adopt to determine whether an applicant for Australian citizenship possesses an adequate knowledge of English. 
I do not want to follow  Senator Carrick  down the ladder of history about which he was speaking. I find it interesting that he says that as an historical fact the war in Vietnam has been successful. I think that it would be a very brave man indeed who would make a judgment as to how the patient would progress. I hope that he is right. I hope that the poor, wartorn country does not nave to suffer a one millionth part of what it has suffered over the last few years. But this, is not the matter which is before us today. Honourable senators on both sides of the .chamber have talked about people becoming emotional. I think that the Australian Democratic Labor Party must have expected this situation when it introduced this motion, because whenever one touches- on the Vietnam war one touches on the most emotive issue which has faced the world over the last few years. Probably this is the most divisive issue of its kind in history. Never has there been such great debate over anywar. Probably this is because of the modern telecommunications available to mankind today. But whenever this matter is raised in a political chamber such as this one must expect emotion. 
I am not condemning this. Emotion has been shown by more than one honourable senator this afternoon. This sort of thing is built into each man. But what has happened? A motion has been put forward by the Democratic Labor Party, a motion which the Australian Labor Party supports. But we ask that the Senate add 2 amendments to the motion. We ask that at the beginning there be added words showing that we dissociate ourselves from the decision to send Australian troops into Vietnam. Surely this is acceptable if honourable senators want to remove this matter from the political field? I keep my tongue in my cheek a bit about this matter. Most people in this chamber are pretty hardened politicians now. The DLP likes to tell us what tough politicians they' are. They are forever telling us this. When they come up with something and say: 'Let us wash our hands of politics in this manner' - well, be that as it may. Certainly there is nothing offensive in the motion which has been put forward by the DLP. One cannot disagree with it. We willingly associate ourselves with it. At the same time, the moment this highly emotive and wholly divisive issue is brought into a political chamber I do not think one can blame the Australian Labor Party for asking to be disassociated from the whole argument which has been presented here today. Quite contrary to saying that by adding the words suggested by the ALP we are going to make this a gimmick or drag it into the mire of politics, I ask honourable senators to accept the amendment in the spirit in which the Australian Labor Party puts it. Honourable senators would thereby lift the motion out of the mire because they would be saying: 'There is to be no argument about this. We still take the line which we have taken over all the years in our attitude towards the Vietnam war but in spite of this we go ahead with the motion'. 
But what have we added to the motion? As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out we have merely added words to say that full repatriation benefits and that type of thing should be available to people because there is no difference between people who have fought in the Vietnam war and people who have fought in other wars. I agree completely with  Senator Carrick  that this matter is not specifically stated. But 1 sum it up by saying that the great servicemen from Vietnam have proved lo be as good as their fathers and grandfathers. 1 think that is all one ever has lo say about the Australian fighting man. But one can become quite emotional. I do nol want to repeal what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, but I ask honourable senators to look at some of the benefits which will go to repatriated people. If an arm is amputated and an eye is destroyed - these are pretty terrible sorts of things - the repatriated man will receive $6.50 a week. He will receive $1.70 if a leg is amputated below the knee. I do not want to go on with these things, but is it not reasonable that this pious motion  -  I do not use the word 'pious' in a nasty way, but I cannot think of a better word at the moment - should express something? lt is doing nothing. What is wrong with saying that now that the fighting man is coming back from Vietnam, with the war as good as over, we want to do something about the situation? 
I want to mention one or two other things because earlier in the debate  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson - I am sure he would be the first to acknowledge it - said that he thought this motion was to go through unanimously and without amendment.  Senator Murphy  assures me that that is not so - that, in fact, he told  Senator Byrne  that there would be an amendment.  Senator Murphy  was unable to give  Senator Byrne  a copy of the amendment because he did not have time to write it out. Indeed, when they both rose  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said: '1 will wait to see what you are doing'. This is probably not important, but I am sure that in a situation such as this  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson would be the first to acknowledge the correctness of what I am saying if he knew exactly what the story was. Some harsh things have been said. 1. could not quite follow  Senator Withers  when he dealt with the Communist armies and the Fascist armies where their governments put political agents into the armies as spies or police pimps. In some way the honourable senator suggested that the ALP wanted a system of pimping for the Government in our armed forces. These sorts of charges do nol stick, because we are the people who are worried about telephone tapping and civil liberties much more than anybody in this Parliament. We are forever talking about these matters. Even today we questioned the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  whether there had been an extension of telephone tapping in Australia or whether the telephone tapping has been there all the time and we had not understood. This mailer is worrying us. These are some of the things which have nothing to do with this motion but which we are entitled to reject completely. They are emotional and unfair things. They are without any basis at all. 

 Senator Carrick is wrong when he says that we set out to emasculate this motion. We have not done this. I have explained to honourable senators the 2 things we have done. There is emotion in this issue. Over all the years we have taken a definite stand.  I  cannot count the number  of  times  I  have taken part in debates in this place  on  the question  of  Vietnam. Always there has  been  a vigorous debate; always the lines have been drawn very clearly. Surely honourable senators do not deny that the ALP wants to make itself completely clear while, at the same time, supporting the sentiments which have been put forward by the DLP. 
I think honourable senators ought to.   
 You would not be condemning the Government. 
Yes, the honourable senator would disapprove of the Liberal-Country Party Government. That is what we are asking honourable senators to do, because this is our belief. 
No. I did not know that this matter was going to be introduced until  I  came in today. I discussed it with  Senator Murphy.  Maybe the honourable senator finds the amendments difficult. If so, why not support the second half? Surely the honourable senator does not disagree with that?  Senator Little  takes the attitude that he does not disagree with the amendment in principle. He feels that somehow the timing is wrong and that it ought to be done at a later date. 
 Senator Little  says that it is not necessary. J hope he is not approving of the repatriation benefits which are available? I elevated the honourable senator above that position. I thought that he agreed with that part of our amendment. But I do not know. That is his business and not mine. These are matters which have been raised here today and this is why we have moved this amendment. The attitude of the ALP has always been that we condemn the fact that there has been conscription. We do not believe that it is necessary. We have condemned the fact that we got involved in the Vietnam war. 1 am not as confident as  Senator Carrick  that all this has been of so much good and that no repercussions have come from it. We are concerned about the repatriation benefits and the deal which soldiers will get when they come back, because these things could easily be forgotten once this war is over. I commend both the amendments. 1 think honourable senators should understand the whole emotive situation which we are in. The emotive situation has exercised everybody's mind today, even towards the fag end of this war Surely honourable senators cannot say that this is a non-political type matter. lt has been brought into a political chamber. As  f  say it is the most emotive issue which has been in the world over the last 10 years, yet honourable senators opposite expect us to say that there are no politics in the matter at all and say that we should let it go. I commend the amendments to the Senate. 
Has the Minister for Health any evidence that the increase in Commonwealth assistance to nursing homes for the aged has been of little help to aged persons as most nursing homes have adopted the policy of increasing their charges by an amount at least equal to the increase in the Commonwealth assistance? If not, will he make inquiries and advise accordingly? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not have any evidence that the significant increase of Si. 50 a day in the Commonwealth's subvention to nursing homes has in fact been eroded by increases in the charges imposed by the nursing homes concerned. I will seek some information on the generality of the honourable senator's question. I will do so primarily through the State governments and the State health departments concerned, which have basic responsibilities in relation to nursing homes. I would not for one moment suggest that it has not happened in certain circumstances, but it may well be that it was going to happen anyway. Representations were made to me as the Minister for Health by not only Government supporters and people in the community but indeed by many members of the Parliament who sit on the opposite side of the chamber to myself and who were concerned about the claims which were being made to them that many nursing homes had either put up their fees or were in the process of doing so. which was creating tremendous concern among the patients in those nursing homes. It was put to me very strongly in this chamber by honourable senator's that the situation was critical. lt was against the background of that critical situation that I took to the Government the proposition that it should immediately step in to increase the Commonwealth's, subvention from S2 and S3 up to $5. as it was to $6.50 a day for the intensive care patients. I am not saying that what  Senator Willesee  has referred to has not happened because it may well have happened in certain circumstances. But I do know that there is not a great margin of tolerance for excessive profits in nursing homes. I know that from my personal knowledge and from reports that come to government. It should be remembered always that there are not only nursing homes being run privately for profit b* organisations: but many also are run by charitable organisations which have pui the cost factor to me and to government quite clearly. Indeed, State governments have done so. I shall get information on a broader canvas because this is a very relevant question. I would not like it to be thought or imagined (hat the extra subvention and the increase pension that the Government has provided have simply been absorbed into extra profits being taken by the nursing homes in which patients are domiciled. 
Last Thursday the Leader of the Government in the Senate tabled a paper relating to the salaries, fees and allowances of statutory office holders.  I  think it would meet the convenience of honourable senators if the information were published in Hansard.  I  ask whether this could be done. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the recent sharp decline in the Japanese wool yarn futures market. 
As this decline can only weaken the demand for Australian wool at future auction sales, what new initiatives does the Government propose to combat the rapidly worsening crisis in the wool industry. 
asked the  Minister representing the Minister for Immigration,  upon  notice:  (1)How many social workers are employed by the Departmentof Immigration, and where are they located? 
In what languages, other than English, are these officers proficient? (3)Which non-government social work agencies receive assistance from the Department of Immigration, and what is the level of assistance in each case? 
asked the Acting 
Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the current establishment of the section of the Department of Immigration which deals with public relations and publicity in Australia? 
What is the cost of departmental publicity within Australia. 
.1 direct my question to the Attorney-General. When preparing legislation to control the operations of insurance companies will he ensure that, in the drafting, provisions are inserted to deal with those firms which attracted such unfavourable comment in the Commonwealth Insurance Commissioner's latest report? 1 am referring to unregistered firms currently selling contracts resembling life insurance policies in Sydney and Perth. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration received any progress reports on 2 research projects, one a population study and the other Professor Wilson's costbenefit study, and will he make public the contents of these reports? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development upon notice: 
Who comprised the Australian delegation announced in the Minister's press release of3rd November 1971, which held talks in Washington with the United States Government on the sharing of information concerning gaseous diffusion uranium enrichment technology. 
 think that any system that cannot take and absorb some criticism without showing a vehement reaction to that criticism is doomed to failure. I think  Senator 
Wilkinson has tried to take a middle course in relation to the Estimates Committee system. I do not think there was any cause for the vehemence that was thrown back at  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh  tonight while we are, as  Senator Wilkinson  said, still in the experimental stage of the system. The extra time that has been put into the system is time that the Parliament can ill afford. I think that the figure I looked at for last year showed that well over twice the time was being put into the examination of the Estimates than was the case previously. I do not think that in examining all the details of expenditure of the tremendously large Commonwealth departments we should worry about all the small amounts. I think the word is 'nitpicking'. If we do this then I do not quite know the way in which we are looking at our Public Service. Surely we have to trust somebody somewhere. From the little I know about the Public Service, I think the mills of God grind slowly but they grind exceedingly small. If there is a bit of 5-rlnger exercise going on we can rest assured that one of the fingers will get jammed in the system eventually. 
I do not think it is important for a body such as the Parliament to be looking so minutely at small things. I do not want to labour this point but it seems to me also that it is inhibiting for the public to have to come into the Committee rooms. People are jammed in everywhere, no seats are clearly delineated for the public and so on. It struck me that there should be some way, when looking at the Estimates, in which to get a consensus in relation to the small amounts involved. For instance, the Postmaster-General's Department spends millions of dollars a year; yet we are worrying whether the cost of its furniture, its rubbers, its pencils or something else has gone up by a few dollars in the year. I do not think that is quite the job of this Parliament. But if we come to a situation where clearly there is some problem, maybe there is a way of looking at it in the Committee of the Whole and then referring it back to the type of Estimates Committee that we now have operating, so that the direct knowledge of the administrative officers would be available. If this is possible it seems to me to be the desirable thing lo do. 
We have all thrown up all sorts of suggestions, and very obviously in a forum such as this we cannot make decisions on them. But I do not want to see a vehement rejection of the criticisms that have been raised. After all, every honourable senator is entitled to put his objections in the way that he thinks fit. I have detected some vehemence in the rejection of some of the suggestions. If the Government cannot accept criticism in the present developmental stage of the committee system, then the system is doomed to failure. The other night the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  when dealing with standing committees and special committees, but not Estimates Committees, said that he was tremendously worried about where the whole situation is leading. I know he still is worried because I have talked to him about it outside this chamber. We have to watch 2 things. One is that the Committees are not broken down by this massive detail, and the other - this does not apply to Estimates Committees for the moment - is that the quality of the work that results may not be challenged and may not be compared with anything similar in the world until something arises. Unless these reports which may gather some dust for a few years are brought out and matched against the technology and the results of examinations that have been made in other parts of the world, in other parts of Australia, by private people, by the technical sections of some of the Commonwealth departments, it will all be a waste of time. We are at an experimental stage. I am worried that the amount of time being put into this system will be disproportionate to the benefits obtained.  Senator Murphy  and I have been looking at the notice paper and trying to work out some sort of timetable so that some of the matters that have been there for as long as 18 months can be cleared. So the time element in relation to these Committees is a very difficult problem. 
All I say to honourable senators is that they should not reject the criticisms they have heard tonight but should absorb them and examine them. If this system of committees is to proceed we have to try to train ourselves, the chairmen who have tremendous responsibilities, and the Ministers, some of whom can be a little wordy on these Committees. After all, they are not trying to prove some point. They are supposed to be looking at estimates of expenditure and whether the particular department has been handling them properly. I do not think the Parliament is in a situation to examine every minute expenditure that the great Commonwealth departments have incurred during the year or intend to incur in the following 12 months. We have to trust somebody somewhere. Commonwealth departments have been going now for 71 years and a lot of them had their beginnings in the States before that and they have not broken down yet. I repeat my plea that honourable senators absorb some of the criticisms. It is. no good just rejecting them, because if the criticisms are rejected and if some honourable senators are pushed outside the consideration of the Estimates very obviously the system will not work. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry whether Ampol Petroleum Ltd, by virtue of the Government's indigenous crude oil policy, is obliged to pay more for Gippsland crude than are any of its international competitors, with the one minor exception of Amoco Aust. Pty Ltd? Does this represent a deliberate Govern ment policy to assist wholly overseas owned companies in competition with their Australian counterparts? 
 Senator Little  said that he was going to confine himself to the motion. I am glad he did that otherwise he might have taken longer to make his contribution to the debate. The motion we are discussing asks the Senate to convey to the House of Representatives- 
I am repeating what  Senator Little  said. He said he would confine himself to the motion. That is all I am saying. The motion calls for setting up  a  joint select committee. I was encouraged by the fact that  Senator Little  said that he would not support this idea now. That conveyed to me that he might look at the suggestion in a different way at another time. In other words he did not reject the concept, as T understood him, of at least having an all Party committee to look at the problems that have arisen in the immigration field and to try to map out something for the future. 

 Senator Sim said that he opposed the motion on principle. I cannot quite see how a question of principle is involved. Both he and  Senator Little  argued against the proposition but not on any question of principle. Indeed,  Senator Little  did not use the word 'principle'. He objected because of the pragmatic problems of staffing such a committee at the present time. I find that one of the most sensitive words one can use in this chamber at the moment is the word 'committee'. The moment one uses it everybody rises to speak. We had a debate on committees last night dealing with the whole question of the committee system. That, of course, is different from what we have put forward regarding a joint committee to deal with immigration. 
Yes. 1 agree. The honourable senator heard me say similar things last night. I think I was one of the first to raise this question of overloading the Senate with work. That is why the Opposition has moved away from the idea of a Senate committee. We want to try to bring in more troops from the House of Representatives to ease the burden on the Senate, but apparently that idea is not acceptable either.  Senator Sim  said that he could not remember any good joint committees, or very few good ones. I remember the Constitutional Review Committee. I thought the report it presented, having regard to the times - it is all right to look at it and criticise it some 15 years later - was a magnificent piece of work. 1 think there are good joint House committees extant today, such as the Joint Statutory Committee on Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings, in spite of the decision it made yesterday, the Public Accounts Committee, the Public Works 
Committee, the Australian Capital Territory Committee, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the New and Permanent Parliament House Committee.  1  think  Senator Sim  is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.  1  do not think that the Senate has been impeded or inhibited in any way or that it has put out any less valuable work because of the fact that honourable senators joined with members of the House of Representatives in forming committees. To me there is a prima facie case always for joint House committees, lt seems to me to be intellectual arrogance for us to say that one-third of the Parliament can operate much more efficiently than the entire Parliament. That is what we are doing every time we set up a Senate committee. We are excluding two-thirds of the members of the Parliament and, prima facie, two-thirds of the ability of the Parliament represented by members in another place. This Parliament consists of 2 bodies, the House of Representatives and the Senate. I think the Senate starts off with a handicap by excluding two-thirds of the personnel available when it decides to enter a certain atea of work. What private company and what Government department would start off on that basis? 
What the Opposition has put forward on this occasion will not throw extra work on the Senate but to a degree will relieve the Senate of what it is doing. Obviously in any consideration of the question of immigration we want the widest experience we can get. It is quite stupid, I suggest, to say that the only people who have knowledge of immigration problems are members of the Senate, not members of the House of Representatives. I think members of the House of Representatives would get much more immigration work in their electorates. It is a high faluting idea to suggest that the only people who can handle committees are members of the Senate. I think we denigrate- the Senate if we argue that the work done in the electorates is different, that a member of the House of Representatives is confined to a particular area but a senator is not. If we adopt that argument we lay ourselves open to the charge that we do not do as much electoral work as members of the House of Rep resentatives and therefore we have more time and do not work as hard. We would get ourselves into a nice debating situation if we argued along those lines. But so much for the committees. As I said, it is very easy to get into debate on committees these days; all you have to do is to mention the word 'committee' and away we go with honourable senators talking about principles and all sorts of things. 
Why is it that on this occasion the Aus-, tralian Labor Party has suggested setting up a joint committee to look at the whole question of immigration? If we read the entire history of immigration we will get involved in all sorts of phrases over the last 100 years, but if we look at its recent history - I do not want to belabour this point because it is self-evident - the situation which attracts migrants to Australia today is vastly different from .the days immediately after World War 2. At that time a large number of very able people were cooped up in displaced persons camps and Australia was fortunate to be one of the first in the field. The life and knowledge of Australia has been enriched by what was done in those days, and I think it continues to be enriched by what we are doing these days. There has been a great change in Europe with the. running down of displaced persons camps and the effect of the European Economic Community. These things have brought pressure to bear on us which will cause changes in our own immediate future. The Government itself has recognised this. 
We have heard  Senator Little  say that our immingration programme should be increased. We heard  Senator Negus  amend his statement somewhat. Firstly he said that no migrants should be allowed and then he said that the programme should be reduced by 70 per cent. So we have this wide divergence of opinion. It is not confined to  Senator Little  and  Senator Negus.  These same propositions have been put to me over the last few weeks. Quite a few contributions on immigration have been given to me. The Government itself has reduced the immigration intake. In July the Government set up 3 committees to examine the immigration set-up. One proposal was put up by Professor Borrie  of  the Australian National University. The Minister  for  Immigration  of  the day,  Mr- 
Phillip Lynch, said that it would examine the important population and demographic studies financed by the Department of Immigration. A completely separate committee was set up: Associate Professor J. Wilson of the University of Sydney had begun work on cost benefit analysis of immigration under current Australian conditions. I think probably that we should send to the Associate Professor a copy of the debate where we were all interjecting to"  Senator Sim  when he was talking about this question of cost benefit. In relation to the third one, the Minister said that the research staff of the Department would soon begin - this was July 1970  -  a trial survey as a prelude to its massive study of the experiences of migrants during their early years in Australia. J remember when this was announced. T applauded it very heartily. 1 thought that these studies were probably overdue, having regard to history and the time that had elapsed. The Minister also went on' to say that reports from these 3 committees ' would flow progressively from these studies. 1 asked yesterday a question on (his matter of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  but he did not know the answer. The former Minister did not say that the reports would be made public. I, perhaps wrongly, thought at the time that they would be made public. 1 was looking forward to a progressive study of the problems. These reports should be made public because they would be fascinating studies and because of the tremendous interest in immigration not only in this chamber but by just about everybody. The committees could have fossilised studies as well as studies brought up to date month by month, quarter by quarter or whenever the people handling them cared to submit their reports. 1 suggest to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration that he should bend over backwards to do this because the contribution of such studies to learning about immigration would be absolutely immense. 1 did not expect the committees to come back with reports in a few months. In fact, I anticipated that one would take some years. However, we are disappointed with the. slowness of the studies. Because of the fast moving pres sures on immigration we suggest today that all of these matters could be examined by the Parliament. The fact that the Minister appointed the committees in July  1970  provides the bases for such an examination. In other words,  we would not be starting off .with a committee from scratch. We already have the studies of these people who have been thinking about these matters and who already have their minds formed to some degree as to what ought to' be done. There has been a wide divergence of- opinion in this debate today and in the last couple of days. Some people say thar the immigration should be doubled. If. the number is doubled, why not quadruple it, because every argument used for doubling the number could itself be doubled to quadruple the number. Some people say that we should not have any immigration at all, while other people  say that the number should be cut down. 
Very clearly the lime is opportune for a study such as this, as the Government has acknowledged. All we are asking is that we add to the committees that the Government has set up under its own initiative, and that immigration be brought into the" public gaze and the preview of a committee of this Parliament. We are asking that the membership involve all the Parliament. If the Government's objection is that only one section of the Parliament should be involved, let it move an amendment to that effect so that we may have a look at that situation. I am heartened by the fact that in the debate today nobody has argued that studies on immigration ought not to be made. Honourable senators have been looking at what they think are the pragmatic problems connected with such studies, and I believe that pragmatic problems could exist. For the reasous that I have given. I contend that it would assist the Senate if the volume of work could be enlarged and spread over 3 times as many people as are doing it at the moment. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has indicated that it will not support the motion. I regret that. It has been gracious enough to say at this point of time that it is opposing the motion. But surely this is one of those things that any government ought to welcome, lt is one of those things that cannot impinge on government and it is in an area where there has been less controversy and less polarisation between the political parties than there has been in relation to any of the other government departments. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
 There are one or two things I would like to say about '.he comments made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  before  1  refer to the debate proper. Firstly he said that the Australian Labor Party was trying to cut out his speaking time. I interjected, but he did not listen to me, and said that  I  was quite willing to intervene in order to let him continue. He should have been here long enough to have seen me do this on many occasions. I believe what Voltaire believed: Although I may not agree with what a person says  1  will defend with my life his right to say it. Secondly, the Minister referred to my silence. I point out that I rose twice but I gave way to him because he is the Minister. He would have heard me earlier had he been a little more patient. I have to ask you,  Mr Chairman,  to be very tolerant with me because  I  want to talk about the Australian Labor Party's policy, those factors as they impinge on the Government's policy, and some of the remarks of  Senator Greenwood.  Of course, none of those things are before the Seriate for consideration tonight. They have nothing to do with the estimates that we should be debating. So I ask for your indulgence in that regard,  Mr Chairman. 
This afternoon,  Senator Mulvihill,  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party moved, without heat or recrimination, for an all-part)' committee to have a look at the Australian immigration situation. Members of the Australian Labor Party who spoke in the debate made this plea in an unheated way. We did not throw in all those psychological things which impinge upon the thoughts and- conscience of every member of Parliament from day to day. We merely asked - I hope in a very dignified manner - that that examination be carried out. That motion was defeated. We accept that. The Minister - he is not the Minister for Immigration but merely the Minister representing the Minister - chose to revert to type in this debate instead of dealing with the estimates.  Senator Poyser  put a very specific situation before the Minister. As  Senator Bishop  has rightly said, any other Minister during the years that  I  have been here has automatically said: 'If you have a personal problem, that is, a problem dealing with something which may be better put before the Department, and if you will let me have the details I will certainly give you an answer'. 
Yes, you did, and then you chose to come back and start a manufactured attack, a very untrue attack and distorted the truth in relation to the Australian Labor Party's policy. On my unoffending head came down the criticism that we did not know whether the policy was  Mr Daly's  or  Senator Willesee's;  we did not know whether it was  Mr Whit  lam's or somebody else's. Without trying to add to the heat of this debate, I say that it is not very important whether it is the policy of  Mr Daly  or  Senator Willesee  because when we become a government there is no certainty that  Mr Daly  or  Senator Willesee  will even be walking around on this earth. Unlike my young friend  I  do not play God. I do not try to forecast what will happen. I do not try to pontificate from very great heights.  1  do not even know what tomorrow will bring forth in this strange old world in which we live. But the important thing is that it is an Australian Labor Party policy, lt is an Australian Labor Party policy which is laid down in public, which has been approached on the broadest possible base by the broadest based party in Australia. 
But you chose gratuitously to throw those names in and you exacerbated the situation tonight. You have deliberately forsaken the job which is yours, to defend and to explain the estimates, and have gone out on a rampage and a line of abuse which is completely unworthy of you. I have tolerated you for -a long time. I have tried to encourage you in this place. I am getting a little sick of arrogant pontification pouring down on this chamber. You have had many chances. The Australian Labor Party, because it realised that you did show some promise when you came into this place, has given you every chance and every opportunity, and you have prostituted everyone of them. You would have been the first to scream if the people on this side of the chamber had introduced a debate on Hughes versus McMahon, or Killen versus McMahon or on Gorton versus McMahon, or the 30 people in this party versus McMahon. 
Or Bury versus McMahon. You would have been the first to say that this had nothing to do with the immigration situation. Yet you bring in a matter that is 10 years old and something which happened in our Party some time ago. You would have been the first to squeal if we had done that sort of thing. I would have been the first to try to stop anybody on our side making the initial move of introducing such a debate. You quoted from Labors platform. I am sorry that I cannot quote from yours, because it is not a written one. Labor's platform on immigration and on every other issue, both at the Launceston conference and every other conference, is discussed in open session. Even you can come in and listen if you feel so inclined. The radio, the television and the Press are there. Every word, every aside, every argument, everything we do is in open session for the whole of Australia to see. We do this because we find that if we base our party on democracy we have to practise democracy. Do you not think it would suit us at times to exclude the Press? Do you not think that at times this has become slightly embarrassing to us? Of course it has, but we believe that this sort of thing has to be swallowed with the whole of the fruit. In the long run it is better for the Australian Labor Party; in the long run it is better for Australia itself. 
The genius of the Liberal Party - which you are displaying - is to be able to squib at every election time the result of its last 3 years in government. It has been a genius of dodging what it has done over the 3 years, putting up a situation of hate and of fear, accusing the Labor Party of what might happen if it docs certain things. The Government asks where is the money coming from and talks about petrol rationing. Now it says we want to open the flood gates and all sorts of coloured people will be around the place. The Government knows perfectly well that this is not what it believes. It knows that that is not the situation, but it knows that the best way to win elections is to avoid standing up to its stewardship by trying to put the blame and the fear onto other people. The typical Liberal Party response is to avoid responsibility and to blame Labor. You have chosen tonight to 'bring in the whole question of colour. You have reiterated it and it would never have been raised had it not been for you. 
While you are asking us to explain things, I will ask you to explain something. 1 would like the Minister to show some courtesy by listening to me if it is not too much trouble. If we are talking about the question of coloured immigration - you talked about homogeneity in Australia - would you explain to me why the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  when he was in Singapore, which is a very receptive place to make this sort of statement, said that we were moving towards a multiracial nation in Australia? There has been no explanation of that. There was a monastic like silence in the Liberal Party when  Mr Gorton  said that publicly in Singapore. I wonder why would he say a thing like that. We have been talking today about how the Australian Labor Party will supposedly let down the flood gates. I believe the reason that  Mr Gorton  made this statement is that, being a realist, he saw that in 1966 the number of non-European people coming into Australia was 3,418 while in 1969 the number was 9,410. Being shown those figures  Mr Gorton  believed that the Liberal' Parly was moving surreptitiously towards a multi-racial nation in Australia. There are more non-Europeans coming in today under a Liberal Party administration than there ever has been in modern history. Was this policy aired in public? Was it laid down in the presence of the Press, television or the radio, and was the public able to walk in and listen to the debates? No, it was surreptitiously sneaked in inch by inch. There was merely an announcement made in 1966 by the then Minister for Immigration that there would be some changes that we would not be so racial in the future, and everybody applauded that. Then suddenly the Government triples the number in 3 years and says in effect: 'We are the people who are going to destroy the homogeneity of Australia'. 
The Government has talked a lot about what happened at Launceston. I know a little about it. I was chairman of the committee which made the recommendations! 
The committee consisted mainly of members of the House of Representatives who talked about these things, and the thing that they put up time and time again was that in their electorates they were absolutely ashamed of the situation whereby migrants were being brought into Australia and treated as second class citizens. They were being formed into ghettos; they could not get housing; their children could not get proper schooling, and all the rest of it. So we wrote into our policy as an instruction, as a guideline to a Labor Minister for Immigration, whoever he might be and whether he is a member of the Senate or the House of Representatives, the following: 
The basis of such policy shall include the capacity lo provide employment, housing, education and social services. 
The Government has not looked at the base that we laid down over 20 years ago. In its great rush it has never amended or examined this situation and it is pouring people into the capital cities. There arc far more migrants who come to live in capital cities than Australians who are born in them. The Minister will see that if he looks at the figures. That is why wc wrote that provision into our policy. The point of the avoidance of discrimination on any ground of race, colour of skin or nationality was in at the direction of the Conference. Why did the Conference look at a situation such as that? There is no doubt that  Senator Poyser  is right. There are rads: policies in the Liberal Party programme. One has been pointed out. 
Today, if an Australian goes to New Zealand to visit or to live, whatever his racial background - whether he be of Chinese. Malay or any other extraction - if he has an Australian visa he can enter that country, walk in, lay his visa down and live there with his wife and children, with no questions being asked. What does Australia do in return for this? We say to New Zealanders, our nearest neighbours and our kin: 'We will accept you if you are white. We wilt accept you if you are Maori. But, if you are of any other ethnic background, you are out. We want you to obtain a visa even if you want only to visit Australia'. 
Yes. my Party would change that. My word, my Party would change that. These are the sorts of things that drove the necessity for change home to us. It is not the numbers that we are talking about. Over the last 20 years, we have seen that with sickening monotony, every now and again, the Government kicks someone out of this country. Why does it do this? It is because his skin is a different colour from that of most Australians. The Government kicks such a person out on no other ground. It is not the numbers. In cases such as these I just mentioned, that charge will not damage us. That is not opening the floodgates. I am talking of the case of an individual or an individual with his wife. Australia becomes known as a racist nation throughout South East Asia and to the west coat of America. Why was it that when the Prime Minister recently arrived in America one of the first questions he was asked was: Do you come from a racist nation'? These are the things that are doing more damage to Australia's image overseas than is any other single thing we do. We are' not talking in terms of thousands of people. If the Government kicked out thousands of people, perhaps we could understand the position. But, as I say, one can almost bet that, if a quarter passes, when the Minister for Immigration is not under pressure in regard to these matters, without our being written up in the South East Asian Press, something has gone wrong. 
The Minister should just be quiet. I am sick of his arrogance. 
I am sick of the Minister's arrogance; he should just be quiet. I find nothing difficult about the points in the policy of the Australian Labor Party that he has raised. People can come and try to pick up every point in this over-sensitive area. Of course, people can nit-pick. Of course, they can scratch, snarl and be arrogant about it. The fact is that although the Australian Labor Party does not care which people we bring into this country - I have said this in public - it will not bring them in in numbers that will upset the normal balance that we all know so well. That is written into our Party's policy, lt was read out by  Senator Greenwood  and he agreed with it. That applies whether the people be black, white, brindle, Eskimos or anybody else. Of course, we will not do that. I know of nobody in the Liberal Party, nobody in the Democratic Labor Party, nobody in the Country Party and certainly nobody in the Australian Labor Party who wants to let down the floodgates. But the moment we try to amend something, to take the racism out of our policy or to make any suggestion that this great white god of immigration can be touched, it is claimed that we will let down the floodgates, or that we will let all sorts of people enter Australia. From time to time- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Order!  The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 Mr Chairman,  your tolerance amazes me. I thank the Minister for the first part of his remarks, and I admire your tolerance in allowing him to make a speech while merely intervening for the sake of allowing me to continue. I will deal with the point he raised. I was at the point of saying that 1 know of nobody who wants to talk about letting down the floodgates. From time to time this Government has said that for a period it has to lay off allowing certain southern European peoples to enter Australia because in the whirl of things - I do not blame anybody for this; it can easily happen when the Government is bringing in more than 100,000 people a year - it starts to bring in too many people of one race, i applaud that action. There is absolutely nothing wrong with that. The Australian Labor Party does not want in this country anyone who will not be an asset to this country. It does not want anybody to come to this country and not be happy here, lt does not want a system of immigration under which one in every 4 people are returning to their homeland because they become disgusted and disgruntled with this country. They are some of the reasons why the Australian Labor Party wants to do something to examine the whole of the immigration policy. Above all, we do not want Australia's name smeared as a racist nation with, as I say, the embarrassing frequency with which it is occurring at present. 

 Senator Negus interjected tonight during  Senator Bishop's  speech. He is not the first one to do this, and I do not isolate him. He called out during  Senator Bishop's  speech: 'Do you want an English situation?'  Mr Chairman,  do you think that when we were examining the policy - we made some alterations , to the policy at Launceston - we were not aware of what the English situation was? Of course we were aware of it. I say to you,  Mr Chairman,  and to the people who are listening that, if the very brief guidelines as laid down in the Australian Labor Party's policy are followed, it is a sheer impossibility to get a situation such as that existing in England. That is why we devised it this way - so that we just could not get that situation under the Labor policy. 
The Minister keeps interjecting and asking about these 2 points. There is the avoidance of the difficulty and the avoidance of discrimination. I have explained to him what pushed this on to our policy. I do not believe that there ever was this racism in the Australian Labor Party. When this policy was advanced it was advanced because people were confronted with the situation that we were being smeared because the Government kicked somebody out of Australia. The clincher was the New Zealand situation. How the Minister can stand here and justify what we are doing in the case of New Zealand is absolutely beyond me. New Zealand is our nearest neighbour. It gives us everything, s a good neighbour should. Yet the Government turns around and says: Tfes, as long as people entering Australia are not of another ethnic group, they can come to Australia'. We have the situation of  Mr Waishing  who came to Australia recently. The Minister for Immigration tried to pounce on him. He told the Minister to jump in the lake. The Minister did nothing about it. The Attorney-General, the great law and order man, did not pursue him and put him in the courts because he knew he was on such weak ground that he Would not be able to pursue the matter. I do not see anything wrong with this policy. The Minister agrees with the first part which states that we wilt not allow an influx of any one group. An influx does not mean one person or 10 people. This policy means that the position will be prevented from getting out of plumb. As I say, this would be done whether it involved Eskimos or anyone else. 
I wish the Minister would look at the Canadian situation where virtually a rule of law is laid down, lt is not a rule of some immigration officer looking at a case. There is a rule of law laying down the various points. Points are given for each degree. A point is given if a person has a job in the country. 
I am sick of the Minister interjecting. I am not saying we will do this. The Minister has that silly, arrogant expression on his face. You ought to bc ashamed of yourself. Why do you nol stand up for your own policy? Do not start your arrogant interjecting as to what I. will do and what I will not do. I am telling you that the Government does not lay down a rule of law and that the Canadian .situation is one al which the Government should look because Canada does lay down  a  rule of Utw. Canada does not let things go haphazardly. All I am saying - there  i&gt;  nothing wrong with this - is that we will set up a situation so that when it comes lo the final crunch we will consider applications on various grounds, as the Government does and as the Canadians do. Included in those grounds will be whether the applicant has relatives in this country, whether he has a skill that we require and whether we have too many of that racial origin coming in at the time. In the final analysis we will not say: 'Yes, we accept you on everything else but because you are Coloured - we can see a little bit of colour behind your ears - you are out'. That is the thing that we will not say. 
Probably the most important thing that the Minister overlooked in our policy is the introduction, where we say that we will do something with sympathy, tolerance and understanding. Although  Senator Greenwood  is only the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, I regret the way in which he handles this sensitive portfolio. The Government will always have difficulties in administering the Department of Immigration because the Department is not handling lumps of wood, it is not in the post office parcelling items and saying: 'Put them in a bag and send them here or there". The Department is dealing with human lives. It is dealing with people who are uprooting themselves from other parts of the world. I have often looked with admiration at those people. 1 do not think that I would like to sell my home and take my wife and family to live in another part of the world. These people have the greatest courage. Obviously they have difficulties, because they are human beings, and that is why the Government must always have a tolerance and an understanding. That is why I have such a tremendous admiration for the employees of the Department of Immigration, lt is not an easy Commonwealth department to run. The Government will always have to face problems of this kind. Unless it does so with sympathy and understanding, unless it takes bigotry and bias out of its heart, the Government will get into more trouble than is necessary. What this portfolio requires and what this whole subject requires are sympathy and understanding and not.  Senator Greenwood,  narrow, pontificating arrogance and an hysterical avoidance of a very great national issue. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  I have been informed that the format with respect to requests of the type that I have moved is somewhat altered this year. The Opposition wishes to move a motion in a positive form. I therefore seek leave to withdraw my request. 
Request withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What mechanism exists within the Department of Trade and Industry to evaluate new technological developments and advise industry of their potential usefulness in Australia. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What have been the numbers of prosecutions for offences under the National Service Actfor each year since 1966 and the results of such prosecutions in respect to (a) failure to register, (b) failure to attend a medical examination and (c) failure to obey a call-up notice. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the proposed expenditure of the Department of National Development by $1. 
This request is sought as an instruction to the Government to introduce as a matter of urgency the implementation of a national policy on fuel and energy. Since last year when we dealt with the estimates for this Department, there has been quite some development in this field. At that time I moved that there should be an inquiry into the establishment of the nuclear development plant which at that stage was being developed at Jervis Bay. Since then, of course, the Government has withdrawn that proposal. Tn fact, it finally accepted the warnings that the Australian Labor Party had been giving in regard to this proposal over a long period of time. Tonight it is not necessary to issue the warning again. The Government has taken that warning already, although it rejected it last year. I think it is very apparent that what is required in Australia today is a scientific development of our natural resources. There is no doubt now that we have raw materials and the skill for Australians to become leaders in metallurgy, metal fabrication and engineering. We have a unique situation in Australia. We have the natural resources and we have a race of people who seem peculiarly adapted to this type of work. 
There is no doubt that Australia is a world leader in the production of such natural resources as fissionable materials; fuel and energy resources. There have been warnings not only in Australia but all over the world that the end of the need for the old standby coal, with which we have grown up and which we have been exporting, all over he world, particularly to Japan in increasing quantities, is in sight. It is not very important whether that will occur 5, 10, 15 or 20 years hence; the fact is that it will not be a long time hence. Australia is exporting something that is not replaced. The unfortunate thing about mining is that every ton of coal or whatever is taken out of the ground is never replaced. It is not like reaping a crop which can be replaced next year. Since last year the Government has set up the Australian Industries Development Corporation, which was a very radical proposal for a conservative government. It was welcomed by the Opposition. It has started to invest money, but we believe that as well as the AIDC there should be a lead from the Government as to what should be done with our tremendous natural resources. The AIDC should be given an indication as to the direction in which it should be moving. I think it is pretty clear from the debates that took place at the time that the Bill was introduced that this was the basis on which the AIDC was set up. The Austraiian Labor Party believes that the indication I have mentioned is very much overdue. Japan is tremendously dependent on our natural resources, and it is becoming more and more dependent on them. Therefore there should not be any hesitation by the Commonwealth, on behalf . of Australians, to ensure that in the secondary and tertiary stages of these developments there should be a majority Australian control. This has been an age-old argument and I think the Government is coming to see more of what the Australian Labor Party has been saying over the years, to the point that there will be an examination by the Senate at least, and I hope by both Houses of Parliament, of overseas control of Australian industries. 
Japan is now in the position - it makes no secret of this - that it has to export its manufacturing processes from Japan. Because of the tremendous cost structure in Japan today it can assemble in Australia as cheaply as it can in Japan. It can manufacture and assemble more cheaply in the Asian countries than it can in either Japan or Australia. Because of the limitation due to the size of Japan, it is at a stage at which it must export its pollution. I do not say that harshly. One does not realise the extent to which there can be pollution until one goes to Japan and sees it, and sees the problems with which Japan is being faced. It has problems associated with stockpiling. Every time it tries to stockpile it runs into problems associated with pollution. Japanese municipal authorities are demanding control of pollution. Industries are finding that this is quadrupling their costs and making impossible the little stockpiling that is possible in Japan. 
There is no doubt that iron and steel manufacturing in Australia will be increased. Over the years we have been largely dependent on one company - the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. We have grown up with it; it has been part of our life. We have relied on it. But there will be another iron and steel manufacturing plant in Australia. Already wc are getting plenty of offers for overseas capital, but J suggest that if we allowed the second iron and steel plant in Australia to be developed almost wholly by overseas capital it would be a tragedy. The one thing about BHP is that, I think, it has the greatest number of Australian shareholders of any company in Australia. The Australian-owned Ampol company has the second greatest number of Australian investors. I suggest that all honourable senators would want to preserve that if they could. There is no doubt that the Commonwealth should be insisting on and taking an interest in this matter. The tremendous resources that we have are not infinite; they are finite. Whether it occurs in our time or in our sons' time or our grandson' time, they will be expended. Therefore, when we are selling them we are entitled, as a nation, to get the full value of our assets. 
There should be laid down in the policy which this motion seeks to have implemented that before there are any exports we should be satisfied that they are being sold at the full world price. There would be nothing innovative about such a suggestion. The petroleum exporting companies which are based around the Persian Gulf look at petroleum not only on a national basis but on an international basis. The countries are geographically suited, which helps them quite a lot. Nevertheless, they do not hesitate for one moment to fix prices and charge what they think the market will bear for the export of petroleum. Japan is one country which has to get in the queue to buy from these countries. If it is good enough for those countries to do it in relation to one commodity - petroleum - it is obvious that Australia should be doing it in relation to all its finite resources. We should be laying down very clearly that we will not export materials which we require. 
Ari evolution has taken place. I refer to the discovery and mining of metals and exporting them to Japan. I agree that the evolution has been a fast one. We should be moving into the secondary and possibly the tertiary development of those metals. I have read the figures, ls it worth going from the first to the second or third grade of development? Plenty of countries would say to us: 'Surely you should, be developing the metals. That makes sense. We are the boys with the money and the technology. We will, come down and do it for you'. I feel sincerely that, if we do not make up our minds very rapidly in the very near future and if we do not let the importing countries know exactly what we will take from them, the amount of capital we will let them invest and the degree to which they can come into the manufacturing of the metals, we will do what we have done with so many other industries: when we wake up one morning we will find that control is in the hands of other countries. 1 think we are inclined to say that because nature has been so bountiful to us development is not all that necessary, but we should be laying down a comprehensive guide to exploration and development of our resources both on the land and under the sea. That is why I asked a question about the matter this afternoon. As 1 indicated in the question, when  Sir Garfield  Barwick was the Attorney-General some time ago he said that it was tremendously important, particularly in relation to the sea bed, thai because of the almost chaotic legal situation we should be staking our claim very firmly indeed. We should be preventing the depletion of our fuel and energy reserves. 
I return to this point: Because we are fairly bountiful we are inclined to sit back and say: 'She'll be right, mate. Let's worry about that on another day'. 1 refer honourable senators to surveys that have been made, particularly the warnings that go to the American  President.  I do not like quoting figures, because J suppose one could get differing views. 1 do not know how anybody could be completely accurate about our reserves. The fact is that they are limited. They will not last a long time. Therefore we are faced with the simple business proposition of making the most of our resources - the most of our assets - while we have them. Tied up in all this is the ecology. I do not want to go into that too deeply because we had a fairly good debate on it this afternoon. There is no doubt that the business world is starting to realise that the Australian public demands from it more than merely making huge profits, employing people and not worrying about the ecology. This is influencing Japan and other countries. In a fuel and energy policy and in looking at the development of our natural resources we must look not only at the assets that we can sell arid at the secondary and tertiary developments but also at the ecology. We could get. ourselves into a situation similar to but not as bad as that of some other countries. All these things could be brought about wilh the establishment of a national fuel and energy policy. No matter how humble its beginning, it should be started as quickly as possible because, wilh that great fossilised thing called the Constitution, there has to be a tremendous degree of cooperation between the States and the Commonwealth to make sure that the States are fitting into the areas about which 1 am talking tonight. 
Last but certainly not least is the ceasefire or freezing that we have witnessed on the question of nuclear energy. The Government went into this area, as we indicated last year, a little like a bull at a gate, after it had decided not to proceed with the Cape Lambert explosion in Western Australia, it seemed that somebody wanted lo get into the act. Some day, of course, Australia will have to get into the act, and it should not delay for too long in doing so. Mistakes were made in respect of the project at Jervis Bay. They are mistakes that have now been admitted. But what happened there should not freeze the situation for all time with respect to our use of nuclear energy. There is no doubt that we have great uranium deposits in Australia. I think there is no doubt that enriched uranium will be a commodity we will be exporting in the future. 
Anyone who is aware of the set-up in Japan will know that that country is tremendously keen on this source of power. 
Japan has a 7-man committee - if that is the word, although it is the same thing whatever the name might be - composed of 6 technical people and one diplomat. The diplomat is there because the moment they want to discuss this question of importing enriched uranium from other countries the diplomat will move in and take the matter out of the hands of the technical people. It could very well be that we could be a big exporter of enriched uranium in the future. This is something different from nuclear technology in other ways.It need not necessarily be associated with the type of plant that we were considering for Jervis Bay. This is an area in which we must bring our technology up to date. If it is necessary in these areas to import some of the know-how and technology, so be it; we will have to do that. 
But the fear is that we will allow this development to grow up like Topsy. While we are not concerned about the amount of overseas capital that comes into Australia and overseas ownership we could find ourselves in the position in which we find ourselves in respect of so many other industries where overseas capital is starting to swamp us. We are in a peculiarly suitable position to develop the production of enriched uranium, and to develop it very rapidly. We have the natural resources and we have the type of people who are very good in this work- 
 I move: 
Thai the Committee is of  the  opinion that the Government should prepare urgently and implement a national fuel and power policy.  1 do not wish to repeat what I said in support of my earlier amendment. I merely make a comment on the Minister's reply. Although it is true that much of this area lies within State jurisdiction, the whole purpose of this amendment is that the Commonwealth should become the leader in this Meld. As  Senator Cant  has pointed out, some of these deposits are in the Northern Territory which is under the direct con,rol of the Commonwealth. The buyers are acting virtually as one body because of the co-operation that they arc able to obtain from overseas countries. Petroleum distributors in the Persian Gulf act virtually as one seller. We do nol think that we will put ourselves in a strong position until the Australian sellers, be they State Government, Commonwealth Government or private, have their activities co-ordinated through the Commonwealth. This would put us in the same favourable selling position as interests overseas. I commend my amendment to the Committee. 
Three months ago 
I asked  the Minister for Civil Aviation when he would make  an  announcement about Trans- Australia Airlines operating routes  in  Northwest Australia, particularly  on  the Perth-Darwin route. The Minister replied: 'Before very long'. I now ask the Minister whether he  is in a  positionto make that announcement. If not, when can the announcement  be  expected? 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for External Territories,  upon  notice: 
Willthe Minister make available the report by Professor Richard Salisbury on the Gazelle Peninsula in New Britain. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his Department has withdrawn financial support from the conference of marriage guidance organisations. Does the Government intend to continue general support for the operating costs of marriage guidance organisations? 
Sena:or GREENWOOD- It is a fact that in the general restraint on expenditure which the Government was forced to impose on various sections of the administration earlier this year the amounts which were requested by the various marriage guidance organisations were not able to be complied with in terms of the allocation which the Department made. In short, they got less than they were seeking. Speaking from recollection, I understand that never theless the amount they did receive was greater than the amount which had been provided the previous year. 
One of the matters which has concerned the organisations is that a national  conference  which they were planning to ho:: in February next year cannot now be  held  and I have received representations from them. I have informed them that it is not possible to increase the amount which is being allocated in the appropriations  currently  before the Senate. The Government believes in the value of these  organisations  and proposes to continue to support them to the best of its ability. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Have all States except New South Wales banned the operations of so-called trading stamp companies. 
Has the New South Wales Government announced plans to legislate against some of the practices of trading stamp companies. 
Has the Minister considered taking steps to ban the use of trading stamps in all Commonwealth territories. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are oysters from the Georges River in Sydney consumed in Canberra. 
Do such oysters contain bacteria which may cause typhoid or hepatitis due to sewage pollution of the GeorgesRiver, and does the Department of Health lest such oysters in this regard. 
Yes. 
The transmission of typhoid through oysters could occur as a result of sewage pollution of the waters in which the oysters were grown. My Department carries out regular sample tests on oysters offered for retain sale in the A.C.T. These tests would reveal the presence of organisms of the typhoid group, but no such organisms have been detected. It is not possible to determine the presence of hepatitis virus in shellfish by laboratory testing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is Ampol Petroleum Ltd, by virtue of the Government's indigenous crude oil policy, obliged to pay more for Gippsland produced crude than any of ils international competitors with the one minor exception of Amoco Australia Pty Ltd; if so, does this represent a policy of assisting wholly overseas owned companies in competition with their Australian counterparts. 
 Although the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  on this Bill was very lengthy, I think I can summarise the purpose of this Bill by saying that it relates basically to the agreement which was reached this year at one of the very famous meetings about which we hear so much, namely, the meetings between the Prime Minister and the Premiers of the States. At the time of the holding of these meetings one sometimes sees cartoons in the newspapers depicting such things as a group of Premiers going cap in band to see the Prime Minister, who is usually shown as sitting up on a throne waiting to receive them. 
The purpose of this Bill, as with successive States grants legislation, is to authorise the payment of financial assistance grants to the States. There are also capital assistance grants, which is a subject that the Senate will be debating in a little while, and special assistance grants. Since Federation these things have become more and more complicated. As honourable senators are aware, the Premiers and the Prime Minister meet from time to time and decide upon what assistance ought to be given by the Commonwealth to the States. Of course, if a full debate were conducted on this Bill it would necessitate the Senate sitting until well after Christmas as great complications are involved in the relationships between the States and the Commonwealth. It is an interesting study to go through the history of the way in which there has been a movement away from assistance on a per capita basis to special grants to meet particular problems. The Opposition does not oppose this measure because it is based on an agreement which has been reached with the States, although I suppose the agreements which are reached at these meetings could be compared with going to arbitration in that one never gets exactly what one wants. 
The Bill also provides for the adjustments which it has been necessary to make following the handing over by the Commonwealth to the States of the right to impose a payroll tax. A series of Bills have flowed from that move. Grants of this nature are authorised by section 96 of the Constitution, which is a provision that is almost as well known to the Parliament as section 52. It sets out the general method of determining the formula grants which form the bulk of the grants payable under this legislation. As I have said, the Opposition offers no objection to this measure, although there are lots of things it is tempted to talk about in relation to it. For instance, I would like to talk about the necessity for additional grants to Western Australia and to the other States. But one could get into a very academic and philosophical debate if one began to do so. Therefore I think I should content myself with saying that the Opposition does not oppose this Bil). 
This Bill is related to the remuneration and allowances payable to the holders of certain statutory offices. These are the people who are in this limbo of government where we have set up statutory offices, subject to some control by the Government. Examples of these organisations which we know so well are the Australian Broadcasting Commission and Trans-Australia Airlines. In a consideration of this Bill the Australian Labor Party seeks to do one of 2 things. First, by a series of amendments to Bills that came before the Parliament we insisted that instead of the salaries for these office holders being fixed by regulation they be fixed by substantial parliamentary enactment, that is, by a Bill presented to the Parliament, so that we could be better informed of the manner in which those salaries were being increased from time to time. At the same time, we allowed for a transitional period so that in the case of salaries which, had been fixed by regulation the Bills would take effect as substantial enactments from 1st January next year. Part of this Bill seeks to achieve that. 
During the Committee stage the Opposition will move an amendment, the effect of which will be to freeze at their present level the salaries of these officers. The reason for this is that we are in an atmosphere of wage restraint, an atmosphere in which the Government talks about the need for restraint in the community, and because yesterday in the House of Representatives the Government by deliberate action decided that an arbitral determination dealing with parliamentary salaries and ministerial salaries should be reduced by two-sevenths. The ultimate result of that, because of other action taken yesterday by the Australian Labor Party, is that those salaries have been frozen altogether. I wonder whether the Government realises the important step that it has taken in respect of the upper echelons of wage fixation - the tall poppies as I think they are popularly termed. By deliberate choice, irrespective of what the arbitral decision was, the Government decided to reduce these salaries by two-sevenths. I reiterate that the result flowing from that was that the salaries have been frozen. 
At a time when the Government is saying that there should be restraint in respect of the normal arbitral decisions which most people think of as being based on the metal trades industries in the national wage case, where so many people are affected but where the smaller salaries of the community are being dealt with it is important that there should be restraint in the upper echelons. It seems to me that the Government took the first step yesterday by applying restraint in those upper echelons over which it has control. I do not intend to deal with this measure point by point. I propose merely to lay a foundation so that the Senate will be aware of our general approach and what we are doing. I propose to explain carefully the amendment that we intend to move. I do not want to read it all out, because of the lateness of the hour. 
The amendment has been drafted for us by the professionals and I assure the Senate that its purpose is merely to say that for the time being, at any rate - because this Bill can be brought up again in the new year - we ask the Senate to inform the House of Representatives that we are extending what the Government did yesterday and are freezing these salaries at their present level. The people with whom we are dealing are holders of statutory offices, including people such as the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission, the  Chairman  and members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the  Chairman  and members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and those officers who operate under the Criminology Research Act. I do not propose to read them all out. Honourable senators are aware of the sort of people to whom I am referring and the level of salaries that they receive. In some cases their salaries would have been getting towards $30,000- actually $29,250- if it were not for what I hope will be a successful amendment that I shall move at the Committee stage. 
Their salaries were to move from about $22,750 to $29,250 and, in the lower ranks, from about $19,500 to $25,000. What we are proposing to do is to extend what the Government did yesterday. We  are asking the Parliament to freeze salaries at a very high level. In this way it cannot be suggested that we are taking the bread and butter from the mouths of people. We take this action mainly because of the Government's action yesterday. I hope that the Government realises that it may, for the first time, be moving into a field in which it is consciously supporting the pegging of salaries and allowances paid to the higher echelons. 1 foreshadow that at the Committee stage 1 shall move: 
Leave out clauses 2. to 5. (inclusive) and the Schedules, insert the following clauses and Schedules: "2.  -  (I.) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. "(2.) The amendment made by this Act to the Criminology Research Act 1971 shall take effect on the day on which that Act comes into operation. "3.  -  (1.) The Acts' specified in the first column of the First Schedule to this Act (being Acts containing provisions relating to the remuneration and allowances payable to the holders of the offices respectively specified in the second column of that Schedule) are amended as respectively specified in the third column of '.hal Schedule. "(2.) Section 1 of the Broadcasting and Television Act (No. 2) 1971 is amended by omitting sub-section (4.). 
As the schedules extend over 3 pages and as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and  Senator Byrne,  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, are cognisant of them, I ask that they be incorporated in Hansard. A glance at them will reveal that it would not make very much sense if I were to read them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): "4.  .n  Aci spc '(icd in the first column of the Second Schedule to this Act. as amended by this Act, may be cited in the manner specified in the second column of that Schedule opposite to the reference to that Act in the first column. 
"THE SCHEDULES 

<graphic href="050232197112090_90_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112090_91_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112090_92_12.jpg"></graphic>

" Second Schedule Section 4. 

<graphic href="050232197112090_92_13.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
Leave out clauses 2. to 5. (inclusive) and the Schedules, insert the following clauses and Schedules: 
(I.) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. (2.) The amendment made by this Act to the Criminology Research Act 1971 shall take effect on the day on which that Act comes into operation. 
(I.) The Acts specified in the first column of the First Schedule to this Act (being Acts containing provisions relating to the remuneration and allowances payable to the holders of the offices respectively specified in the second column of that Schedule) are amended as respectively specified in the third column of that Schedule. (2.) Section I of the Broadcasting and Television Act (No. 2) 1971 is amended by omitting subsection (4.). "4. An Act specified in the 'first column of the Second Schedule to this Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited in the manner specified in the second column of that Schedule opposite to the reference to that Act in the first column. 
"THE SCHEDULES 

<graphic href="050232197112090_97_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112090_98_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112090_99_16.jpg"></graphic>

" Second Schedule Section 4. 

<graphic href="050232197112090_99_17.jpg"></graphic>

I wish to make some brief comment on the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in closing the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I am sorry that he picked me up on the rather narrow approach I adopted earlier. Having regard to the time and to the atmosphere which prevails, I did not go into the matter very fully. But if the Leader of the Government wants me to talk about the whole question of wage fixation in Australia today it will be necessary for him to adjourn this debate until tomorrow and then to set aside at least an hour for me to speak because I could not discuss the whole question of wage fixation in Australia in less time than that. 1 tried to condense my remarks as much as I could. 
The Leader of the Government spoke about dispensing summary justice. I think he moved outside of the field in talking about dispensing summary justice. The Leader of the Government kept referring to the fact that this Bill had been before the other place and he asked what the Opposition's attitude to it had been in the other place. The Opposition did not oppose  it. The reason for that is that the debate on this Bill in the other place pre-dated the deliberate action that was taken by the Government yesterday. I repeat that the Government yesterday took very deliberate action. The Leader of the Government referred to the report of  Mr Justice  Kerr on parliamentary salaries. I am not referring to that report; 1 am referring to the action that the Government deliberately took. Some of the so-called tall poppies who will be affected by this legislation are earning twice the salaries of some of the poppies the Government has cut down and could be earning 3 times the salary if these increases are approved by the Parliament. The Government has applied a certain rate of reduction to one group but not to another group. That was its decision. 
Ever since the Budget was brought down the Government has been talking about salary restraints. Why has the Opposition picked on this Bill to express its views? It has picked on this Bil! because it is the first Bill before the House which it has had an opportunity to pick on. It is a Bill which deals with the salaries of very senior members of the Public Service. It relates to salaries approaching about $30,000 a year. So our withers remain unwrung. I think I should point out that the Second Division officers received an increase at the hands of an Arbitrator on, I think, 4th November. Surely, if the Government is going to move into the field of wage restraint, and its own people have said that it is necessary to exercise wage restraint in the national wage case, it is on very untenable ground if it says that the community cannot alford wage increases to be given to people earning around $70 or $80 a week - those on the bottom of the rung - while it does not restrain those on this salary level. I cannot understand why the Government does not grasp this fact. It would put the Government in a much stronger position if it were prepared to say that it is going to cut down on the senior salaries paid in Australia before it starts to cut down on the junior ones. In its attempt to reject the Opposition's proposal tonight the Government has said: 'We are going to oppose the national wage case. We are going to hammer day after day the claim that Australia cannot afford wage increases in the $70, $80 or $90 a week salary level'. But the Government can afford to offer some people a rise of $6,500, which will take them up to nearly $30,000 a year. If I were advising the Government I would tell it to reverse its position because I believe that if it were to do so it would be in a much stronger position than it is today. 
The superannuation aspect is a matter with which I should not really deal. The position is that superannuation is not automatically bound to the salary received, as is the position with members of Parliament. Honourable senators should not get confused about this matter. The only relationship is that if one's salar)' goes into another range one has the right to buy certain units which entitle one to a certain amount when one becomes a superannuitant. But that is a different thing altogether. It only gives one the right. In many cases one does not buy the additional units if one is getting a bit long in the tooth because they are too expensive.  Senator Wilkinson  and myself have had experience of this through being in the Public Service. However, I am getting off the track. I do not want to deal with the side issues. 
The problem that the Government has got itself into with regard to wage fixation outside that of the Arbitration Commission is that the Government has a proliferation of wage fixing bodies. When it wants to fix university salaries it creates a special commission to look at them. To some degree, the  President  and the  Speaker  are wage fixing bodies. The Government has this proliferation of wage fixing bodies. It should be doing something to bring them under one umbrella. That umbrella may be the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator. I do not know. The Government would have to look at the proposition much more carefully than I have. While each individual is saying 'Let us fix this wage here and that wage there', obviously each is entering into competition with the other. The Government is not applying the principles that it should apply. It is unable to draw all these together. This is one of the problems that it has in this proliferation of bodies to fix wages for senior public servants, for senior officials of universities and senior employees of paraCommonwealth departments, if I might so describe them. I do not want to enter into a long debate. If we were to debate the matter in the way in which it should be debated we would debate the whole subject of wage fixation - a very complicated and very fascinating subject, I assure honourable senators. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
asked the  Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Are teachers made available to migrants travelling to Australia by sea? If so, how are they recruited and what remuneration do they receive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth give special assistance to children living in isolated areas of the Northern Territory in order that they might gain a full education; if so, what form does such assistance take and what is the annual cost? 
 The Bill with which we are dealing is a simple one which the Opposition does not oppose. It relates to the appointment of an Australian judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, who is to travel to and take up residence in Fiji and, there, to act as the Chief Justice of Fiji. The person who has been appointed by the Fijian Government is  Mr Justice  Nimmo. I am sure that everybody in this place can spell and pronounce that name, particularly the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and previous Ministers for Health. He was the judge who carried out the inquiry on behalf of the Department of Health and the Minister some time ago. This Bill is necessary to overcome that section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which relates to life-time judicial appointment in Australia, so that he may accept remuneration in Fiji and, at the same time, not accept remuneration in respect of his life time appointment here. 
I do nol think there is any need for me to go into the reasons for Judge Nimmo's selection by the Fijian Government, because this is that Government's business, but honourable senators will know that Fiji became independent a little while ago. Fiji is a fairly equally divided multi-racial society of Indians and indigenous Fijians and perhaps it is because of that that the Fijian Government has required a Chief Justice to come from another country. It is natural and, J think, encouraging, that they should look to Australia in this, and the Australian Labor Party offers no opposition to Judge Nimmo taking up this appointment. We certainly wish him well in this new post. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 The Australian Labor Party will be moving an amendment to this Bill at the Committee stage. The amendment is of an administrative character. This Bill arises out of the inquiries that have been conducted in Papua New Guinea. The Select Committee on Constitutional Development was set up way back in June 1969. Its task was to draft a set of constitutional proposals as a guide for future constitutional development in Papua New Guinea. The Government has updated its thinking on this subject and is now talking about independence for the Territory within the next 4 years. The Committee's recommendations have been largely accepted by the Government with one exception; that is a recommendation to call the Territory Niugini. Papua and New Guinea, as we have known it over the years, is now to be known as Papua New Guinea. 
The Committee was silent on the subject of the amendment that we propose to move at the Committee stage, copies of which are now being circulated. That subject is the Administrator's Executive Council which, I suppose, roughly equates to a Cabinet. This measure provides for the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  after certain consultations in Papua New Guinea, to appoint 9 Ministers of the House of Assembly to become part of the Cabinet. We are adopting the wording of the Bill in relation to the appointment of the  Deputy Chairman  and are seeking to place the responsibility on the Ministry that is already established. The effect is that the Ministry, if I might call it that, would be selected by the Parliament itself and in turn the Ministry would select what I have termed the Cabinet. 
As the Government and the Opposition want to see self-government in Papua New Guinea we feel that it is better to hand over the responsibilities and the forms of the Papua New Guinea Parliament, which seem very much like those of the Australian Parliament. The verbiage used in the Papua New Guinea Parliament is obviously borrowed from Australia. Instead of the 
Minister's saying 'You shall have these people to do these things', we believe it is preferable to have the Ministry itself choose the Council and have its decision ratified by the Papua New Guinea Parliament. This is a sensible way of moving towards selfgovernment and of getting the people of Papua New Guinea used to making their own appointments. It is also another way of removing from the Minister the necessity to make a decision which at some point could be resented, lt seems to me that there is a lot to be gained and nothing very much to be lost if the amendment is carried. I ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for External Territories in the Senate, to accept at the Committee stage the amendment T have foreshadowed. 
1 refer to clause 10, which reads, in part: 
Section 20 and 21 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 
(1). Subject to this section, the Council shall consist of - 
nine other Ministers of the House of Assembly appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Aministrator, being a nomination made after consulting the Deputy Chairman; and .... 
I move..... 
Leave out paragraph (c), insert the following paragraph: 
nine other Ministers of the House of Assembly appointed by the Ministers of the House of Assembly, but such appointments shall not become effective unless and until the House of Assembly has, by resolution, approved the appointments; and'. 
I add nothing further to the points that I made in my speech during the second reading debate. We agree with this Bill and we want to see this proposed development hastened along. In our humble view the acceptance of our amendment would contribute to that end. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This Bill was foreshadowed in a statement made in the Senate on 29th April 1971 by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on behalf of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  It seeks to do one or two things. It seeks to give power for one member of the Tariff Board to inquire into and report on references. It provides an opportunity for a  deputy chairman  of the Board to be called, I think, the Acting  Chairman.  I do not know the full significance of that provision, but it must be important as it is included in the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Civil Aviation said: 
The Government's purpose in making the proposed changes is to achieve maximum expedition in the Tariff Board's handling of non-tariff revision matters referred to it, while, at the same time, enhancing its general work capacity. Full discussions in relation to the proposed changes were held with the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. 
I suppose one should treat that statement as having a lot of significance, in view of some of the fights which have occurred between the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board and the Government. So the Opposition accepts that statement. I understand that the sort of non-tariff matters that will be handled are such matters as customs by-laws, both for admission under by-law and certain cases of cancellation of by-laws, tariff classification, dumping, the addition of goods to the New ZealandAustralia free trade area - I hope that the 
Tariff Board informs the Parliament when it does this sort of thing - and questions relating to the granting of entry of products from developed countries. Honourable senators may have noticed that I underlined the words 'expedition of handling', because even the Minister admitted that when he refers matters to the Board it sometimes takes up to 2 years before finality is reached. If that is the case it is time that we had some expedition in these matters. 
This Bill seems to have been introduced by the Government arising out of the tremendous interest and controversy which exists between the Board and the Government and the great publicity that has surrounded these matters. There is always a tremendous interest in Tariff Board proposals, and particularly now, having regard to the economic times through which we are passing and, taking this measure on its face value, it appears to us that the Government is making some attempt to take off the senior part of the Board - if I may term it in that way - and to give the junior jobs to individuals in order to achieve results a little more quickly. Because of those considerations, if we have read them aright, the Opposition has no objection to the Bills. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Telecommunications Division of the Australian Post Office circulated a notice advising that the residence telephone number of  Mr L.  F. McGinty, M.L.A., New South Wales, was omitted from the latest Sydney Telephone Directory; if so: 
how many notices were sent out, and how many of these notices were sent to persons outside the State Electoral Division of Willoughby; 
what was the estimated cost of this operation; 
for how many other persons has this type of service been performed with respect to the last Sydney telephone directory; and 
what was the number of reported omissions of subscriber entries from the last Sydney telephone directory. 
asked the Minister  for Health, upon notice: 
What has been the total amount paid to D. J. Moran Managements Pty Ltd, in each of the past 3 years, for each of the classes of Commonwealth benefits payable in respect of patients in nursing homes operated by the Company. 
On behalf of what number in each class of patients in the Company's nursing homes were Commonwealth benefits paid in each of the past 3 years. 
What was the gross and net profit of the Company in each of the past 3 years. 
and (2) The extent to which D. J. Moran Managements Pty Ltd operate or have interests in nursing homes approved under the National Health Act for the payment of Commonwealth nursing home benefit is not know within my Department. However, it should be noted that the payment of Commonwealth nursing home benefit is made direct to, and in the name of, the approved nursing home on condition that an amount equal to the benefit is deducted from the patient's account. 
This information is not available within my Department. However, I understand that, under the New South Wales Companies Act and upon payment of a prescribed fee, the information could be obtained by inspecting relevant documents filed or lodged with the New South Wales Registrar of Companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government given any indication that it intends to offer to Her Majesty, the Queen, a permanent royal residence near Canberra. 
Did a spokesman for the Prime Minister refuse to deny the possibility of this offer being made. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
I am informed that the answer is - No; the possibility of such an offer being made was denied. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
For what reasons was Captain Cariker, the United Stales Commander of the Harold E. Holt base at Exmouth, recalled to the United Slates. 
Does the Government acquiesce in the request by Captain Cariker for President Nixon to institute an inquiry into the affairs at this base. 
Is the Government satisfied to leave any inquiries into events within Australian territory to the  President  of the United States, or does the Australian Government intend to inquire into this matter and the associated allegations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received any progress reports on the Australian National University population study and the cost-benefit study being undertaken by Professor Wilson., and will he make public the contents of these reports. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the Government plan to introduce legislation to control the resources of the sea beyond the 3 mile limit? 
Will the Minister heed the call of  Sir Garfield  Barwick that legislation be introduced to prevent the over-exploitation of marine resources by both foreign and Australian interests? 
I remind the Minister for Civil Aviation that twice last year I. asked him about the application by TransAustralia Airlines for permission to operate on the Perth-Darwin air route. On 8th December the Minister said that he expected to make an announcement before Christmas. In view of his failure to announce the decision on TAA's application, will he now inform the Senate of the reasons for delaying the decision and also when an announcement finally can be expected? 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What funds have been borrowed from the Commonwealth by each of  the  States for the purpose of expanding their respective railways systems. 
What is the current rate of interest paid on these loans and what are their terms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister explain how the Cambodian Government has accepted Australia's offer to train Cambodian troops in Vietnam when the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence both say that no offer has been made, and that Cabinet has simply agreed in principle to discuss the training of Cambodians, subject to suitable arrangements. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following answer: 
The Government is not responsible for the choice of words by, Press correspondents. Pursuant to its decision in principle it has naturally checked to confirm that Australian help with training in South Vietnam would be welcomed by the Cambodian Government; but the Government has not described this inquiry as an offer, nor has the Cambodian Government done so in any public statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does the Government have any plans for legislation to place some limit on the permissible level of noise that may bc emitted by motor vehicles and motor cycles in the Australian Capital Territory? 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The problem of prescribing enforceable maximum noise levels by legislation is receiving attention. The nature of the legislative provisions will depend to a great extent on expert advice as to how 'undue noise' may bc measured. This aspect of the matter is at present being studied. 
Earlier in the evening  Senator Murphy  moved a motion that had the purpose of adjourning this notice of motion standing in my name, which reads as follows: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following matter - The Structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
As you know,  Mr President,  there was some debate on that motion and finally it was withdrawn. So I now move a more limited one, namely: 
That business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, be adjourned until the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. Are spare parts for the FI 1 1 aircraft being purchased from the prime contractor for the supply of the aircraft - General Dynamics Corporation - or are they being purchased direct from the subcontractor manufacturing them? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Has the review of the incentive system for petroleum exploration been completed? If so, will he publish its conclusions? If not, as the review was promised for last year, when may it be expected? 
 Mr President,  I will be very brief. I am alarmed at the turn that this debate has taken. 1 regret that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  treats this as a joke and laughs at what has been said. I do not think that he has ever heard me abuse the police. He has never heard me call them Gestapo. 1 realise that our police forces must have the respect of everybody in Australia. 1 realise that the situation is harder for the Commonwealth Police because the State police forces have existed for so long and have greater traditions of training. After the State police forces have taken their pick, it is hard to get good policemen in the Commonwealth Police Force, lt is always hard to run a police force because the job that policemen perform is an unpleasant one. But when one listens to  Senator Carrick,  in an hysterical fashion abusing the Labor Government for what it did during war time or at any other time- 
Unfortunately 1 must say to you that I have learnt to doubt anything that you claim to be facts. If we want to debate that matter, we can debate all sorts of things. This is what the honourable senator would want me to do because he realises the spot that his government is in tonight. He wants to avoid the issue above every other thing. 
The honourable senator should be quiet. I regret that  Senator Rae,  with his legal background, has done exactly the same thing- 
I will not go into all the details of this matter. I merely wish to say, first, that the Attorney-General did not deal with what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said. He did not state at any time that the police were Gestapo. But the Attorney-General himself suggested that this could have been a lip off, that somebody could have rung wilh this advice, and that on that evidence the police were going to raid, is this not the very thing that the Gestapo used to do? Did not the Gestapo visit people early in the morning? The Gestapo raided at all sorts of unexpected hours. Why in the name of goodness in a simple case such as the one in which  Senator Wheeldon  was thought to be involved did the Commonwealth police have to visit him on Boxing Day when what they were concerned with was published in a document. They could have gone there 6 months later and it would have been all right. They should have gone to his office. When people come into a person's home, that person's wife and children are affected. Any of us who have people coming to our homes know this. I have had people - not members of the police force - come onto my doorstep and I know the effect that this has on my children. It is bad enough when this is done by people who are not beholden to a government. 
I do not wish to exaggerate this matter. I do not seek to take it into a wider field. I do not wish to talk about all of the things that have been said. But I suggest quite seriously to the Attorney-General that, if he is a responsible Minister, he will look at the matters raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, which will appear in Hansard, and ask for explanations concerning them. If the Attorney-General is satisfied with those explanations, well and good. But I suggest to him that he should not close his mind to this matter merely because it has a connotation which arises out of the National Service Act about which there is heat and on which there are hard feelings on both sides of the Parliament. The Attorney-General should not let these things influence him. 
For goodness sake, look at this matter in perspective. If this woman was asked: When did you arrive in this country?' and other questions such as that, there is a prima facie case to support the argument that questions of that type ought not to be asked of an Australian citizen who had married an American. There is enough in what has been put to the Senate on that point, I suggest to the Attorney-General, to carry out an investigation and to satisfy himself a little more clearly on the matter. 
Quite frankly, I am disappointed that the Attorney-General as a lawyer sought not to examine the situation as it was put up by  Senator Douglas  McClelland tonight but instead immediately went into the smear area of the political scene. I regret that very, very much. In common with  Senator Milliner  I am amazed - the Attorney-General should look at this matter; if he does not the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  ought to look at it - by the situation that exists between the AttorneyGeneral and his Department. The AttorneyGeneral was involved with this man Matteson. He had to debate the matter in the Senate. The incident was the subject of headlines throughout Australia. Yet, when a raid, an investigation or a visitation - whichever word the Attorney-General cares to use to describe it - was carried out on this woman's home on Christmas Day, the Commonwealth Police did not report the fact to the Attorney-General. If I was the Minister in charge, in that situation I would have the head of my Department in my office next day to explain why this was so. It is quite elementary that this should have been done. 
I finish on this note: Let us not throw this matter aside. I want to see the greatest respect for our police forces. The only way in which the Attorney-General will hold the respect of the police throughout Australia, be they Commonwealth or State police, is not to let these things that have happened be swept under the carpet. One of the mistakes that police organisations make throughout Australia today is that when a policeman is involved they hold a police inquiry. If a railway man is involved, they do not hold a railway inquiry. If a Post Office man is involved, they do not hold a postal inquiry. This is where they are doing their own public relations so much harm. If one of us were involved - an ordinary citizen - a decision is made by a magistrate, a judge or by some other body; something is done in public. This should be the case whether it be a policeman or anybody else. There will be troubles with police; they are human and they are a big body of people. But, for goodness' sake  Mr Attorney,  do not take this attitude that they are right all the time. In enforcement of the law the application of force should never be overdone. 
The Minister should read the famous Churchill speech on this subject during the Boer Warand get his priorities right. There should be sufficient action taken to fit the crime. If a murderer had been chased there certainly would have been no arguments from me or from any other honourable senator on this side of the chamber about what hour of what day they conducted a raid. But this is a situation where, I understand,  4  women were involved and obviously the nuances of their feelings were not completely taken into account. There certainly is a suspicion in my mind that excessive zeal was used in the handling of this matter. It seems clear that there has been a breakdown between the Attorney-General and his Department, and Australia deserves much better than that from him or any other Attorney-General. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice. 
Who withheld from the Perth edition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme 'This Day Tonight', the videotaped inter views of the Attorney-General and  Mr Matteson;  and replaced it with a report of an American honeymoon resort. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Has the General Manager of Qantas Airways Ltd recently advised staff members that despite the fact that the company's staff strength of 12,209 at the end of 1971 was 887 below the budgeted figure 'it has simply not been good enough'? Did he say also: 
This will  necessitate some further  staff  reductions  over the  next  2  months. 
Can the Minister say how many more Qantas employees it is proposed to sack before the present round of retrenchments is completed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is Austland Sales Corporation Ltd of Bangkok advertising the sale of Queensland land in South-East Asian newspapers? 
Does the sales literature of this company contain a reply section with spaces marked tor persons who are interested in investing in Australia and for those who would like to settle in Australia? 
Is the impression being created by this sales promotion that the purchase of land in Australia will assist Asian investors to obtain residence visas should they wish to migrate to Australia? 
Is the company receivingactivesupport from the Queensland Government? 
What action is the Commonwealth  Government  taking in this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer ensure that in drafting legislation to control the operation of insurance companies, provisions are inserted to deal with those firms which attracted unfavourable comment  in  the Commonwealth Insurance Commissioners' latest report, that  is,  unregistered firms currently selling contracts resembling life insurance policies in Sydney and Perth. 
This matter is being given consideration in the preparation of the proposed legislation to control the activities of general (non-life) insurance companies. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following matter - 
The structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
In referring to the Commonwealth Public Service, we are dealing with a tremendously large and important body. The figures that I am about to quote are from the 1971 Public Service Board report. The number of people employed in the Public Service in 1971 was 237,174. That figure does not include 85,000 people in the permanent armed forces. That figure represents 4.4 per cent of the estimated work force of 5.4 million people in Australia. Without doubt there is under one control the largest number of employees in Australia. 
Yes, that figure includes those people. The number of people employed by the Post Office represents roughly 50 per cent of those employed in the Public Service. The payment to these people by way of normal emoluments, salaries, allowances and overtime was nearly $ 1,050m. The Opposition is not asking for anything outrageous when it seeks to have referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Public Service is involved not only in the administration of government policy; it is involved also in the formulation of government policy and, in some cases, the implementing of it. We are seeking to deal with the Public Service not only from a governmental point of view but also from a tremendously important financial and industrial point of view. I think honourable senators know enough to know the general structure of the First Division, Second Division, Third Division and Fourth Division. First Division officers are very rare people. Fourth Division officers are those people who carry out the normal work involved in running the Public Service. They are mainly men in the Post Office - postmen, linemen, labourers, mail sorters and persons in that category. The general work force is in the Fourth Division.  Senator Byrne  mentioned the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I have the figure for the Postmaster-General's Department. The number of employees is 110,000 of the total of 237,000. By far the largest number of employees in one Department is to be found in the Postmaster-General's Department. The 110,00 employees of the PMG received $460m of the emoluments that I mentioned. 
The last inquiry into the Public Service was held in 1919. That was the Royal Commission on Public Service Administration. 
I think it was the Piddington inquiry, I did not make a note of that name. I remember it; when I was in the Public Service it was referred to often. I am sure that the slight differences of the forms of inquiry and the different nuances that have been placed upon the Public Service will be mentioned. The Commission was appointed to look at the various Acts relating to the administration of the Public Service, particularly in relation to the effect of such Acts upon the management and working of the departments and the steps necessary to adjust the position that had arisen by reason of the various authorities in existence for the regulation and working of the Public Service. I think honourable senators will readily concede that if in 1919 there was an inquiry into the various Acts and regulations that had a bearing on the Public Service administrators of those days the Acts, regulations and general orders that have grown over the years would be much more important than those in 1919 and that there would be many more of them. That was the last full scale inquiry. 
I have noticed that the Government, in answers to questions, is inclined to deal more with side issues and to refer to other inquiries which I will mention. I repeat that the royal commission was the last full scale inquiry. That was well over 50 years ago. People may get confused about the other committees of inquiry. In 1943-44 there was the Committee of Inquiry into systems of Promotion and Temporary Transfers. That was known as the Bailey Committee. It was chaired by  Mr Bailey,  later  Sir Kenneth  Bailey. This Committee achieved a lot. I remember its report very well. One of its recommendations concerned the very controversial area of promotions and promotion appeals. The only grounds on which a public servant can appeal are seniority or superior efficiency. Seniority, of course, is in the book; one does not have to argue that. 
Until the time of the Bailey report superior efficiency was never defined. Both the appellant and the respondent were put in the peculiar position of having to appear before the Public Service Board or, if the appeal was to be heard in a State, the Public Service Commissioner and say: 'I am of greater efficiency than that fellow, but 1 do not know why because I do not know what you are looking for'. The appeals were based on a matter of opinion or on a matter of ego. The decision was always dodged by the departments and by the Public Service Board. It took the Bailey Committee to write the criteria tor superior efficiency. That is one act alone. He did a lot of other things. He set up commissions. In the other place there has been or is to be introduced a Bill to amend the principle slightly further. But the principle is still based on the Bailey report of 1943-44. By that act alone  Sir Kenneth  Bailey did something for the administration, for all the people who were involved in appeals and for all the people who had to decide those appeals. That was a remarkable and courageous report in those days because until 1943 the matter had been dodged by the Public Service. 
In 1957-58 there was the Committee of Inquiry into Public Service Recruitment. 1 remember that quite well. I was a senator at that time. Since then my Party has made independent calls for various inquiries, all dealing with the Public Service. Some dealt with the Post Office. The Post Office is vitally affected in this. The figures that I have given already show that, lt is by far the largest single entity. The Post Office is by far the biggest employer of labour in Australia, either within or without the Public Service. When its figures are taken in conjunction with the figures for the rest of the Public Service its position becomes more important. As recently as 1970 the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, made an appeal for an independent inquiry.  Senator Gair,  on behalf of his Party, adverted to this in his speech on the 1967 Budget. He criticised the condition and operation of the Public Service. The Democratic Labor Party's view, if not his view, which he stated explicitly, is that it desires a change in the 45 per cent of the Public Service which is employed by the Postmaster-General's Department. The honourable senator moved an urgency motion to debate the establishment of a statutory corporation or authority to control the operations of what is now known as the Postmaster-General's Department. 
In the Parliament there has been quite a clamour for various sections of the Public Service to be scrutinised by different types of outside inquiries. I think one could almost guarantee that every few months in the newspapers there is a feature article dealing with the Public Service. Often it deals with the Postmaster-General's Department. The debate is whether that Department should be made a statutory body, as  Senator Gair  has suggested. Outside the Parliament,  Mr Blyton,  the  President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, issued a special statement on the subject. He said: 
What is really needed is an independent inquiry into the Commonwealth Public Service. It is incredible that with the technological advances made in the past 50 years and the growth of Government in this period that there has been no thorough inquiry into the Commonwealth Public Service as a whole. 
Other countries have derived important benefits from inquiries of this kind and it is timely that Australia should examine the overall efficiency of its own Federal Public Service. 

 His reference to other countries acknowledges the fact that since the end of World War II nearly every advanced Wes'.ern nation has had at least one full scale inquiry into its Public Service. There were the Hoover Commission in the United States of America and the Royal Commission to Inquire into and Report Upon State Services in New Zealand. The latter Commission examined the organisation, staffing and methods of control and operation of departments of State and agencies In 1968 a Committee on the Civil Service, chaired by Lord Fulton, reported upon the structure, recruitment and management, including training, of the United Kingdom Home Civil Service. I have quoted in some detail the terms of reference of those committees so that honourable senators may see how fully those committees have inquired into those organisations. 
The Opposition is asking for nothing more than is laid down in the motion. It may be said that it is all right for other countries to conduct inquiries but what benefit would we derive if one were to be conducted in Australia. Let us examine the advances which have been made in the technological field alone. There are at present 83 computers in the Commonwealth Public Service, of which 20 were installed in 1970-71. All of those computers have been installed in the last 10 years. Twenty of them - one-quarter of them - have been installed in the last 12 months. I atn talking of the position as at June 1971, which is when the report to which I am referring was prepared. The advent of the computer should be sufficient reason to warrant an investigation. The use of computers is going to revolutionise such places as accounts branches. 
I should think that if the inquiry I am advocating were conducted it would help the Public Service Board and the Commonwealth departments immeasurably because, it would enable them to give consideration to improving the structure of their accounting sections. Let us examine the situation in one accounts section. Let us take as an example the telephone accounts section of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I should imagine that that section would handle thousands of accounts. No doubt the handling of those accounts involves a lot of tedious and monotonous work. I should not imagine that very many senior people would be employed in such a section, which would mean that there would be a few senior positions and then a very long tail. The morale in such a section would be very low because young people employed there who had a flair for accountancy and had already passed their clerical examinations or matriculated would have a long corridor in front of them to negotiate before they reached a senior level. These young people would naturally tend to transfer to some other department which would enable them to move up the seniority ladder so much quicker. I should imagine that an inquiry of the type I have advocated would be able to determine whether that tedious and monotonous work could be computerised. If it were computerised the senior positions could be retained and maybe even increased but the monotonous work would be reduced. I suggest that the work which is at present being undertaken by computers is sufficient ground, if no other reason existed, for the type of inquiry I have proposed. 
There has been a technological revolution in recent years. It is very difficult to grasp the fact that in the next few years we will advance more technologically than we have since as far back as one would like to go. In the next 30 years enormous advances will be made in the field of technology. It is not an evolution but a complete revolution which is occurring in the technological field. Although the Public Service is absorbing some of the technological advances which are occurring, it is moving along at an evolutionary pace in this revolutionary era. That is natural for a public service. A public service is not a very revolutionary type of body. I regard the technological advances which are being made as certainly a very important item to be considered in the inquiry I have proposed. 
The Public Service Board and the permanent heads of the Commonwealth departments have very much wider responsibilities than one would think at first. They have not only to administer and carry out the Acts of this Parliament but also to worry about the standard of recruitment and the training of recruits in managerial techniques, technological advances and the other specialised fields in which training is necessary. They have a fairly broad set of heads of responsibility under which they have to work. I have referred to this matter because from time to time there is suspicion in the public's mind - maybe it is unjustified - about the rapid growth in the size of the Public Service in Australia, particularly since the end of the war. There is a fear that the Service is not operating as efficiently as it ought to be. It is also argued from time to time that too much conservatism has been built into the Public Service and that it is not meeting the demands of modern times. If these suspicions are well founded it is the job of this Parliament to correct the situation. If they are not well founded then nobody has anything to hide. It could well be that this sort of criticism could be allayed and that the public would be very pleased with the findings of such an inquiry. I repeat that 53 years ago it was considered necessary to have a look at the way in which the Public Service operated. Surely any of the reasons put forward in those days for having an inquiry have multiplied. 
I think that there is a special case for an examination of the Australian Post Office because of its terrific size and multifarious duties. There is a greater spread of the divisions within the Post Office. There is also a great clamour for it to be made a statutory corporation. Indeed, the Australian Labor Party has on its platform a proposal to turn the Post Office into a statutory corporation. 
No, we did not reject it. 
W h a t we said on tha; occasion was that we wanted an inquiry to be conducted into this matter. Regardless of whether it is in one's platform, I do not think one would want to destroy the largest Public Service department in Australia simply to change it into another form. A lot of research into such a proposition is necessary. The inquiry I have advocated would be an admirable occasion on which to conduct that research. The Postmaster-General's Department because of its size, because of its multifarious duties and because of all the complexities involved in its administration, is one Commonwealth department which could go through a technological revolution in this the age of satellites. It could probably go through a greater technological revolution than any other department or industry in Australia. It should be remembered when talking about the age of computers that a satellite's operations need not necessarily be confined to one land mass. A satellite could be used over such places as Papua New Guinea and over Indonesia where a very modern telephone system is being put in under the auspices of the Australian Post Office. The type of inquiry I have proposed should cover the whole gamut of Post Office operations. The final decision as to whether the Australian Post Office should be set up as a statutory corporation and, if so, its actual form would best be determined after considering the facts revealed by and the conclusions of such an inquiry. If we were considering the setting up of a statutory body we would be certainly moving on very much firmer ground if we had the benefit of an inquiry of this nature. Tremendous problems could arise, but there is no doubt that not only the Post Office but also the whole of the Public Service, the Parliament and future administrators of Commonwealth departments would benefit from such an inquiry. Public anxiety also would be allayed. 
Other things which keep cropping up from time to time and which are never quite satisfactorily resolved could be examined. For example, there has been a lot of criticism about the secrecy within the Public Service. Because of the not very clearly defined restrictions upon them public servants are forbidden to comment in public on things within their purview. Obviously nobody would want public servants to be giving out state secrets, but they should be allowed to offer comments in certain circumstances. Secrecy is something which has grown up like Topsy over the years, lt is something which ought to be clarified. We have been chipping away at the whole question of Public Service rights. For example, up until 1947 one was not allowed to take leave in order to stand for Parliament. Up until the Evatt amendment of 1947 one had to resign from the Public Service in order to stand for Parliament and pray that one either did not lose or, if one lost, got back into the Public Service after the election. 
The Administrative and Clerical Officers Association has complained from time to time that its officers have been doing nothing else but writing political speeches for Ministers. The inquiry 1 have proposed could examine whether political speeches ought to be written for Ministers by public servants. There have been complaints from the unions about this matter but it has never been satisfactorily cleared up. Honourable senators will recall the arguments which we had a couple of years ago as to whether it was the time and Jervis Bay was the place for the installation of a nuclear reactor and whether the one that was contemplated was the right type. We were groping all over Australia to obtain scientific evidence on this matter but the officers of the Jervis Bay project were forbidden under the law of the land to give information to the public on their views on the Jervis Bay nuclear reactor. 
Under some Ministers, foreign affairs officers have been criticised because they have given advice which is not in accord with policy. I can see the point of view. They are told: 'Look, you are here working for this Government and you should give us advice on our policy.' Again this is something with which some of us would not agree and think ought to be examined. It should not be forgotten that we can become remote from the true position and see these people as a team of servants who are merely carrying out what the Government dictates. But there is no shadow of doubt that the senior bureaucrats, the senior civil servants in Australia today are not only the carriers out of policy; they are the makers of policy. Therefore they are extremely important people in the legislative machinery today. 
Criticism also has been levelled at the Public Service Board on the whole question of its wages policy, that when it makes a wage determination it has a bearing on the whole of the wage structure of Australia. But if one goes into the way the whole system works one finds that the Public Service Board does not have complete control of such questions as reclassification and all that type of thing. However, the picture is not as clear as some of the critics make out. Of course, the Public Service Board also receives criticism from the other end, that it is not keeping up with outside wage rates. In this respect the Public Service Board gets caught between the fire from either side. I have here a document from the Library which refers to the question of why civil servants ought to be released from some of the secrecy to which they are bound. The document reads: 
Th: British Masterman Committee's report suggests that the main argument for liberalisation is based upon the fact that the Public Service now contains a larger proportion of the population than ever before and a highly educated section of the community. The Report suggest that unnecessary restriction on such people may, have an effect upon the quality of public debate. 
They are the findings of a committee in England which expressed a view that some honourable senators may reject. I am suggesting that we could not do less than other countries of the world have done. I think I have said sufficient and advanced sound reasons show why our Committee should be allowed at least to look at this matter. It may well find that this is an enormous task. It may well give a partial report in which it may suggest that further action be taken. There has been public talk of royal commissions, of parliamentary inquiries and this type of thing. If this proposed inquiry were conducted as other inquiries have been by our present committee system, which is now starting to function fairly efficiently, at least we would get something done. We could at least have a look at this matter and bring down recommendations on at least some of these aspects. The 'Australian Financial Review' of Friday, 10th July 1970, put this matter on a very much more urgent and very much more alarming level than I have deliberately refrained from doing tonight. The last two paragraphs of the article read: 
What may appear to newspapers or academics as bureaucratic  timidy  and unwillingness to allow critical examination may in fact sometimes be merely a lively awareness of the battery of arcane laws that a repressive Government can, and does, invoke. 
Secrecy and civil liberties are inextricably related, and simultaneous solution to both problems is to open up our Public Sen-ice along the lines that have already been adopted in the United States, the United Kingdom. Sweden and a number of other nations whose Governments are still standing and whose Public Servants aTe not yet anarchic. 
I commend this motion to the Senate. I suggest that we have nothing very much to lose but a tremendous amount to gain, however our committee might handle the matter. For those reasons, and after 53 years I suggest that it is almost time that the Australian public was allowed to have the fresh breezes blow through the corridors of power in the Public Service of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. ls it a fact that originally 6 of the 24 Fill aircraft were to have been capable of conversion to a reconnaissance role? ls this conversion still possible? If not, is the Minister considering the purchase of 6 additional Fill aircraft in the reconnaissance version? If he is not, what type of reconnaissance aircraft will be obtained to perform reconnaissance duties? 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  virtually has put the last word on the fate of the proposed joint select committee. We heard part of this argument on Tuesday when debating a 
Labor Party proposal to refer to a standing committee a certain item. This proposal was rejected by both the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Government on the grounds, firstly, that the suggestion was far too wide to be handled by a committee of this sort and, secondly, that there were not enough bodies to go around; in other words, that the Senate's committees were so cluttered up that we would be unable to do justice to the motion that I moved on Tuesday. This proposition is slightly different because it involves a joint select committee. Therefore if the Senate were to adopt this proposal very obviously the Government would merely say: That is that'. We would not have a joint select committee because the setting up of such a committee is a decision for the Government. 
In these circumstances I do not see any point, in insisting that the debate go any further. This is a matter which peculiarly comes into the Government's hands. The argument that was used successfully against me on Tuesday night was whether a joint select committee, or a committee of members of Parliament, is the type of committee that should handle this matter. Therefore the Australian Labor Party sees no point in supporting this proposal. I do express my appreciation to the Minister for Civil Aviation for giving this matter a very full treatment. He spoke for 50 minutes. At least his remarks are on the record. He made the point that something has been done on the inter-governmental level. I would like to read his remarks more closely in tomorrow's Hansard in order to study them a little more fully. As 1 say, the suggestion is to set up a joint select committee, which includes members from the House of Representatives. If the Government puts its face against this proposal there is nothing very much we can do because any resolution we may pass here certainly will have no validity in the House of Representatives. Therefore the Australian Labor Party sees no point in supporting the motion which is before the chamber tonight. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Do application forms for legal aid under the Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 cover some 16 pages for civil matters and some 18 pages for criminal matters?  If  so, does the Minister accept that the time taken to fill in these forms would be about 2 hours? Does the complexity of these forms discourage people from seeking legal aid? If so, will the Minister take steps to simplify the layout of these forms? 
I ask the Minister for Health whether the Australian Society for Medical Research has alleged that because of lack of funds at least 20 top medical research scientists have been forced to leave Australia during the last 3 years. Does he accept the Society's contention that the real figure for grants handed out through the National Health and Medical Research Council is $2.25m? Has the Government any plans to increase funds for medical researchto halt the exodus of Australia's best medical scientists? 
I recall that I gave an answer in some depth on this matter during the last session of the Parliament. I would not challenge the authenticity of the amount of money mentioned by  Senator Willesee.  I would need to have such a check processed through the Department. There is evidence not only of professional people leaving Australia but also of some coming here. It is a mater of balancing the flow. I believe there is always a case to be stated for increasing funds for set purposes. The honourable senator's question is an important one. I would like to have it processed through my Department and to obtain some of the exact figures in relation to people who have left Australia for purposes of research. In the medical field it is quite a normal practice for graduates to leave Australia very soon after graduating to seek higher degrees in the United Kingdom. But I do not think that is the point that  Senator Willesee  is really aiming at. I think he is talking in terms of specialised people who are researchers in their own right who are going away. There is quite a movement of our own nationals leaving Australia to further their studies. I think that is a good thing. One of the greatest dangers we face in this part of the world is our insularity. If our people can go overseas and take advantage of the world's knowledge and experience and return, Australia will be a much greater country in the discipline concerned. I will obtain some further details and make them available to the Senate. 
Is' the Minister for Health aware that  Dr MacDonald  said on television last night that he regarded the judge appointed to inquire into the common fee as being an adjudicator rather than an arbitrator? Is not an adjudicator a person with no power or right to enforce his decision, whereas an arbitrator has these powers of enforcement by prior agreement? Is the Minister concerned about the situation in which one side in this dispute, the Government, has declared that it will accept the judge's decision while the other side, the doctors, have refused to be bound by the decision? 
I do not have the advantage of having seen the telecast referred to or of having read a transcript of what the Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association said. No doubt a transcript will be made available to me today. I want to make something clear. Having put down the broad pattern of the appointment of the arbitrator and the broad pattern of the terms of reference, as I said last, night there are still some discussions that I, as the responsible Minister, need to have with  Mr Justice  Kerr before the precise- terms of reference are put down. Therefore it would be inappropriate for me to canvass certain attitudes or views. That will apply, as I see it, through the period of about 6 weeks until the end of April, the time by which the Government has requested that the report be provided. 
With those qualifications and' having adopted that degree of reticence, I feel I should say some things to clarify the situation. The arbitration process decided on by the Government in relation to common fees under the medical benefits scheme is not arbitration of a dispute between an employer and an employee. The situation is that in 1970 the Government reconstructed the medical benefits scheme in such a way that medical benefits were specifically related to common fees charged by doctors in each of the States. The Government agreed as part of the arrangement that the common fees would be reviewed at 2-yearly intervals. The first review was made with effect from 1st July 1971. There have been differences of opinion within the medical profession in New South Wales as to what the most common fee should be for general practitioner consultations and home visits from 1st July 1971. The fees advised by the Federal Council of the AMA to the Government were as follows: For general practitioner surgery consultations, $3.80; for general practitioner home visits, $5.05. The fees recommended by 16 out of the 27 local associations of the AMA in New South Wales to their members were in excess of those figures. 
The Government and the Federal Council of the AMA agree that unless there is a significant observance of the most common fee the present voluntary health scheme cannot survive. In this situation the Government wants to have established, by arbitration processes, what are the fair and reasonable fees in New South Wales for general practioner surgery consultations and home visits for the purpose of the medical benefits scheme for the 2-year cycle which commenced on 1st July 1971 and will run to 30th June 1973. The factors which the arbitrator will examine are those which operated up to 30th June 1971. The date of the next 2-yearly general review of medical fees and benefits for all States under the 2 items of the schedule referred to will be 30th June 1973. With regard to sanctions and penalties, I draw the attention of honourable senators to that part of my statement delivered last night where I said: 
After implementation of the arbitrator's finding within the medical benefits schedule - which sets the benefits to be paid for particular medical services - firm assurances will be sought from the Australian Medical Association that there will be general observance of the fees so that they will, in fact, become the most common fees. 
The Government also has decided that if, after implementation of the arbitrator's finding, there is a failure by the medical profession to achieve a high level of observance of the common fees, other measures will be considered. 
Finally, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that 1 have undertaken to be in attendance at the second day of the sittings of the federal body of the Australian Medical Association next Sunday morning. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many passengers have been carried on the Perth to Darwin route by MacRobertson Miller Airlines during each of the last 24months. 
 I would like to add my voice on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to the words of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate.  Senator Kendall  was elected to this Parliament in 1949 and was with those of us who took our seats here in the period from 1950 to 1965. He was one of the forty-niners, who are starting now to be remembered by only a few. He had, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson pointed out, a lifetime in the Navy and in the Merchant Marine. He spent about 7 years of that time in China and about 5 years in New Guinea. To the affairs of those 2 countries, which were not canvassed So much in those days as you,  Mr President,  well remember,  Senator Kendall  brought a very fresh mind to bear and he talked about them when a lot of us were not thinking about them as deeply as we do today. 
He was very incisive in debate; he was a very intent listener and was quick to grasp points and to react to them. But he was always a very fair debater. I remember one occasion when he said something that brought quite a lot of public criticism upon him. The criticism on that occasion came from members on his own side as well as honourable senators on this side. He handled the criticism in a very dignified manner by saying on the next occasion he spoke that he appreciated the letters he had received and the criticisms he had received and he hoped that the criticisms he offered would be received in the same way by all those people who had been criticising him. That impressed me very much at the time. All of us who knew him remember him as a very sincere man. I met him when he visited Canberra a few years ago. Even then, although he was aging, he did a lot of community work. He was devoted to the Sea Scouts. He told me that he was unable to drive his car, but that he was making arrangements to keep up his responsibilities to the Sea Scouts. He was devoted not only to parliamentary life but also to all those things associated with it. On behalf of members of the Australian Labor Party, I associate myself with the remarks of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and convey to Roy Kendall's widow and all those in mourning for him our very deepest condolences. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation currently considering proposals that Trans-Australia Airlines should be permitted to broaden its activities to include areas such as tourist facilities and hotels, ground transport where it would assist passenger and freight operations, and obtaining outside engineering contracts for its large facilities at Melbourne? Does the Minister regard yesterday's announcement of the substantial buying into Ansett Transport Industries by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd as being a good reason for allowing TAA to broaden its economic base so that it can maintain its competitive position? 
On behalf of  Senator Fitzgerald,  I present the following petition: 
The 'Honourable The.  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resultingin both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament asssembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be. subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, its in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As this petition is in identical terms with that presented by  Senator Murphy  I shall not move that it be read. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development table in Parliament the terms of reference of the Franco-Australian joint feasibility study on the technical and economic aspects of constructing a uranium enrichment plant in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of the Science Policy Branch ofthe Department of Education and Science, and what functions does the Branch perform. 
Has the Minister for Health seen the criticism by the  President  of the National Heart Foundation of the Commonwealth Government's reluctance to contribute to the Foundation's research programme? Is it a fact that during the. 11 years of the Foundation's existence the Government has contributed only $10,000, which represents about 1 per cent of the research funds expended by the Foundation? 
This Bill amends section 50 of the Public Service Act in relation to promotion appeals within the Public Service. At present, based on the Bailey Appeal Report of 1944 which has applied evevr since, appeals are heard by a promotions appeal committee which consists of a chairman, a member of the relevant department and a member of the associated union. Appeals by officers up to a certain grade in the Public Service are determined within the States. Appeals above that grade are referred to the Public Service Board for decision. What this Bill does is to place, in between the Public Service Board and State appeal bodies, another body. 
The duty of that body will be, where the provisional appointees are from one State and appellants are from other States, to consider the reports of State promotion appeal committees and in Canberra make the final decision. It may be necessary for members of the body to travel from State to State to take further evidence or to get the provisional appointee or the appellants before it. The creation of this body is probably a natural extension, but it is a wonder, when one looks back over the whole history of the Bailey appeals system, that the necessity for such a body has not arisen before. The Opposition thinks that this appears to be a sensible move and does not offer any objection to it. 
 I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Are a number of overseas airlines at present offering underthecounter discounts on fares for scheduled services to and from Australia? Have a number of International Air Transport Association investigators recently examined this situation in Australia? If so, what has been the result of their investigations? 
I preface a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior by saying that some years ago I asked whether the Commonwealth would set a lead by setting up a boxing commission to eliminate, as far as possible, those obvious hazards in boxing brought about by lack of condition and all those other things about which we know so well. Because of the upsurge of boxing in Australia over the last couple of years I ask again whether the Commonwealth will examine the possibility of setting up a boxing commission in those territories under its control as a lead to the rest of Australia. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the Australian Post Office Annual Report for 1971 provides the total number of STD calls made throughout Australia during the year, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to providing a statement on each subscriber's telephone account of the number of STD calls made from the subscriber's phone during the period of the account. 
 I will take the lead from  Senator Young  and be brief, too. Recently, particularly this week, many questions have been asked and many innuendoes have been made about the meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party that was held in Adelaide last week. 
I have no intention of telling the honourable senator what happens within the confines of the Labor Party, just as he will not tell me what has happened in Tasmania and the South Australian Government senators will not tell me what has happened and what is happening in that State. I respect their views in that regard. I wish to say one or two things to help my young colleague. Let me say in passing that I regret very much that our young friend from South Australia,  Senator Jessop,  has come into this place and chosen to speak at the level at which he does. I like to see young members come here. I like to see them apply themselves to what is a grand opportunity to do something for Australia. But, when this young man gets into his muck-raking, I genuinely say to him that I feel very sorry and I make an appeal to him to lift himself out of that. 
I have appealed to  Senator Greenwood.  From time to time he listens to me, and from time to time, I am afraid, he does not. The Federal Executive meeting has been described as being an unusually quiet one. I do not know how honourable senators opposite know about it. I am one of the 2 members of this chamber who are members of the Federal Executive and I assure honourable senators opposite that it was not unusually quiet. It was par for the course and, for a Federal Executive meeting, that is not unusually quiet. The other thing honourable senators opposite keep saying is that we dodged this issue or that issue. Let me explain to them that the Federal Executive is not the policy making body of the Australian Labor Party. 
The Federal Conference. I thought that even  Senator Webster  would know that. Let me make one correction: There are 4 members of this chamber who are members of the Federal Executive. I am sure that the other 3 will bear me out when I say that the meeting was not unusually quiet; it was par for the course - and those 2 statements are not incompatible with each other. The next point is that the agenda for our Federal 
Executive meetings come from the constituent bodies of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Greenwood  was counselling us to deal with things that he would put forward; but however important they might seem I must assure him, as well as Senators Young and Jessop and other people, that within the Australian Labor Party we do not deal with matters from outside the Party. If those honourable senators would like to join the Australian Labor Party and have matters put on the agenda we will deal with those matters. 
Be a little reasonable about this. The Liberal Party has problems in Tasmania and problems in South Australia and, brother, it has problems in Canberra. The Liberal Party will not have on its agendas matters coming from the Australian Labor Party or matters coming from outside the constituent bodies of the Party. When the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party meets about 4 times a year it deals with matters from constituent bodies of the Party. Whatever good advice we might receive or whatever matters others might like us to deal with, we will deal only with those things that come from the constituent bodies of our Party. If political parties want to go outside this method then God help party politics in Australia. Not one of our political parties - the Liberal Party, the 
Labor Party or any other party - will allow itself to be run by propaganda, even on the eve of an election. The matters that we dealt with were things coming from our constituent bodies. It was not an unusually quiet meeting. In spite of my friend  Senator Rae  saying 'tell us what happened', I am not going to tell him what happened - it is not of his business. In the same way, it is none of my business what happens within the Liberal Party in Tasmania and none of by business what happens in the Liberal-Country League in South Australia. But it is my business when it comes to what is happening in the Liberal Party and Country Party in Canberra. I am looking forward to the verdict. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has examination of the documents alleged to have come from the Rhodesian Information Centre in Crows Nest satisfied officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs that these documents are genuine? If so what action is proposed against those persons who have apparently breached certain laws of the Commonwealth? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Did he see a report that  Mr Athol  VVedd, the Commissioner of Police in Western Australia, had stated that he had advised the Commonwealth Police some time ago that he would not be able to handle any Commonwealth work, that he was not under instructions from a political source and that, after giving the advice to the Commonwealth, he had not received any complaint at all from that source? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Have adult migrant teaching and training classes in the suburbs of South Melbourne and Prahran, both of which have high migrant populations, closed? 
What was the exact nature of migrant classes conducted in these two suburbs and what was the enrolment in each class? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Are any English language classes conducted by the Department, or on its behalf in factories and other places where migrants find employment; if so, how many such classes are there and what is their enrolment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In amplification of the answer to my question No. 1847 regarding the requirement of Ratu  Sir Kamisese  Mara to obtain a visa for entry to Australia, can the Minister say whether that gentleman would have required a visa if he was simply a private citizen, and would the same requirement apply to  Mr Sanders  if he was a private citizen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the review of the incentive system for petroleum exploration been completed; if so, will the Minister publish its conclusions; if not, and recalling that the review was promised for last year, when may it be expected. 
I ask a question of the Acting Postmaster-General. Does the Minister propose, when filling the vacancy on the Australian Broadcasting Commission caused by the death of Brigadier Masel, to follow precedent and have the replacement appointed only for the balance of what was Brigadier  Masel's  term? When does the Minister expect to be able to announce the name of the replacement? 
-.1 ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the Senate to look at clause 20 of the Bill, lt deals with the officers and employees. It states in part:  (2.) Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, a person shall not be appointed as an officer unless - 
he is a British  subject; 
The clause continues to list 4 other qualifications for a person to be appointed as an officer. What is the importance or significance of insisting that the person be a British subject? 
 I am most grateful to the Minister. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I present the fol lowing petition from 99 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of post offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of post offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Townley. 
Petitions severally received. 
Communications Tower on Black Mountain 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Have complaints been received regarding the very poor television reception experienced by residents of Omeo, Victoria, and have PostmasterGeneral's Department technical staff tested the reception. 
Will the Postmaster-General consider either the improving of television reception in Omeo, or the waiving of licence fees for television receivers located there. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the statement made by  Mr Justice  Fox in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court on 16th February 1972 in which he criticised the serious under-staffing of the Social Welfare Branch of the Department of the Interior. 
Is it a fact that this staff shortage is delaying the production of welfare reports on prisoners; if so, what steps is the Department of the Interior t aking to remedy this shortage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What financial and other assistance to the various State Good Neighbour Councils - 
was provided by the Government during each of the last 3 years, and 
is budgeted for during the current financial year. 
I thank the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  for his 2 very clear expositions. I ask him now whether he can again help me. Looking at clause 20 (1.) I notice that it states: 
The Commissioner shall, on behalf of the Commonwealth, appoint as officers such number of persons as he thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. 
Clause 20 (2.) states: 
Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, a person shall not be appointed as an officer unless - 
he is  a  British subject; 
Clause 20 (3.) states: 
The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Minister, appoint as an officer a person who is not a British subject . . . 
Will the Minister explain to me why one sub-clause contains the requirement that a person shall be a British subject while the other sub-clause has no such requirement? The Minister's advisers have induced him to write in, or the Minister on behalf of someone has written in, the requirement that a person be a British subject, yet a few lines further down there is no such requirement. I am wondering whether it would not be simpler to take out both references, or would that be beyond the wit of the Government? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories seen the statement made yesterday by Brigadier Eldridge, the retiring joint force commander in New Guinea, in which he called for the handing over of control of New Guinea's armed forces before the granting of independence to the Territory? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has determined any timetable for handing over control of the Territory's armed forces to the New Guinea authorities? 
Has the Minister for Health seen allegations by Father David Robarts, former hospital advisory board chairman, that senior Department of Health officials sitting on the Northern Territory health inquiry in Alice Springs were intimidating witnesses? In view of the serious nature of these allegations will the Minister have them investigated so that public confidence in the inquiry will not be disturbed? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I have seen reports and I am most concerned about them. In one paper there is a most disgraceful reference, if I may say so, which says that Department of Health officials are like the Mafia. That is a most disgraceful reference to be attributed, as it is, to a reverend gentleman. 1 want to make it clear that there is no intimidation. I do not accept the allegation that there is intimidation. It is true that a departmental officer is present at hearings of the inquiry but this is quite normal. It should be realised that the Department is required to provide evidence during the inquiry and that it will be better equipped to provide information of real assistance if it is properly informed of the nature of evidence given by other witnesses. I should add that a statement was made on 7th April this year by the Commonwealth Director of Health at Darwin. This was done with my concurrence. The statement referred to the appearance of departmental officers as private witnesses before the inquiry. This is the statement that was made: 
The Department has noobjection to members of the Department appearing as witnesses before the Committee in their private capacity. However, as the members would be appearing in a private capacity they may not present departmental policy or documents. Any request for the presentation of policy or for documents that may be required should be made to the departmental representative. 
No doubt he would be called as a witness at the inquiry. I should add that the board of inquiry is composed of  Mr K.  S. Edmunds, who is the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Tribunal and who has a legal background;  Dr Dearlove,  Director of Medical Services with the Department of Repatriation in South Australia; and  Dr Vanderfield  who is the Chief Executive Officer and General Medical 
Superintendent of the Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney. These are people of integrity who have status in the community. 
To suggest that there has been intimidation of witnesses or to suggest, as one newspaper did, that health officials were like the Mafia, is a reflection on the board of inquiry. This is a terrible thing for a Press report to attribute to anyone. I should like to make it abundantly clear also that the article in the Press this morning mentioned a complaint against the Department of Health because it had not notified people in the Alice Springs area about the inquiry. The Department of Health is not the convenor of the inquiry; it is an inquiry which is being conducted at the instigation of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory. The Department of Health has concurred in the inquiry being held and, of course, has given its support. 
The same reverend gentleman, Father Robarts, is reported - I keep using the word reported' because I do not like criticising people unfairly - to have complained to the board about the lack of advertising of its sittings in Alice Springs. The report mentions also that he blamed the Darwin senior health officials who had 3 or 4 weeks notice of the inquiry and who should have circulated the hearing dates. I repeat that the Health Department was not the instigator of this inquiry. If the dates of sitting were to be circulated, that would be the responsibility of those who set up the inquiry or those who have the conduct of it. The whole atmosphere of this matter contains an imputation against officers of the Public Service. It is deplorable that serious imputations of this nature should be made against members of the Public Service by a man of the cloth or by anybody else. 
Has the Minister for Health any information on a visi.1 here by  Dr Tatsuzo  Kasugai of Japan during which he demonstrated an instrument - I understand it is known as the fibre-optic gastroscope - which has revolutionised the early detection of cancer and other stomach complaints? Has the Minister's Department any information on the instrument? If not, can it be obtained? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI saw a comment in the Press this morning in relation to this matter and I sought some preliminary information on it. The Press comment indicated that this device is being used in certain of the major hospitals in Sydney. It is referred to in one case as the I-spy device. Recent developments in fibre-optics have resulted in instruments being produced which enable observers - they obviously would be people engaged in the medical field - to visualise the lining surfaces of some internal organs of the body. The fibre-optic gastroscope is passed into the stomach through the mouth and allows the doctor to examine the lining surface of the stomach. By careful examination the medical practitioner is able to see changes in the stomach lining allowing him to detect many abnormal conditions, including cancer of the stomach. The suggestion, of course, is that this is early detection. Early detection of cancer will greatly improve the chances of complete removal and cure of the cancer. I know that we all hope and pray that it will be another step towards the eventual conquest of cancer. That is the information I have at the moment. If any more particularised information becomes available to me I will be delighted to make it available not only to the Senate but also to the community at large. 
I ask the Acting Postmaster-General: Has the American firm of management consultants, McKinsey and Company, been retained to conduct an inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission? If so, who authorised the employment of these consultants? What types of ABC operations are to be investigated? What is the fee to be paid to the firm? 
Following  Senator Webster's  question I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is he aware that currently attending outside institutions in Western Australia, such as the Perth Technical School, for periods of instruction, are at least 15 people? Is he aware that since 1970 at least 60 persons have been allowed to attend outside institutions? Is he also aware that Gary Cook is the only prisoner at present attending the University of Western Australia for periods of instruction but is not, however, the first prisoner to attend that University in this manner? If the Minister has not informed himself of these circumstances, will he accept my assertions in this matter? 
asked the Acting Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Are many ofthe members of the various state country press associations suffering severe financial problems as the result of falling revenue and increasing costs. 
Is it a fact that, in the competition for advertising revenue, country newspapers were disadvantaged by the last Budget which raised postage on country newspapers but left rates for the Householder Delivery Service unchanged. 
Does the Postmaster-General believe that, by budgetary policy, advertisers should be encouraged to patronise a medium of advertising, which unlike country newspapers, provides no news or information service to the rural population. 

 Senator COTTON - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I do not have comprehensive information available on the financial situation of the various State Country Press Association members but  I  am aware that some publications are experiencing financial difficulties. 
In the area of newspapers and periodicals, registered for transmission by post at concessional rates, the Postal Service suffers substantial losses of some $10m annually. Country newspapers and periodicals are registered under category'A', which is given the highest concession. Some 33 million copies annually of country publications are posted, many for as low as lยฝc per copy. This, of course, is less than the basis 'householder Delivery' rates of 2c and 3c. Newspapers and periodicals receive much speedier delivery than Householder' items and, unlike the latter, require individual sorting. 
The Post Office 'Householder Delivery' service is of many years standing, meeting the requirements of many firms and organisations. In view of the customer needs it meets, withdrawal of this service would be strongly opposed by its users and is not supported. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Is Australia currently negotiating with France to arrange a treaty far co-operation in the area of the peaceful use of atomic energy? If so, is it the Government's intention that the treaty should be in similar terms to that signed in February between Japan and Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the outcome of the discussions in Washington last November between Australian and United States officials regarding the conditions for the release of United States diffusion technology. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
United. States officials outlined a number of conditions under which its technology for uranium enrichment might be released. There is no point in considering these conditions further, however, until additional technical and economic data becomes available. This data is being prepared by the United States and should be made available soon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that persons who have left school either under discretionary, provisions of the relevant Education Act or who are above the minimum school leaving age, are, if unable to obtain employment, ineligible for unemployment benefit if they are under 16 years of age. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Social Services Act authorises payment of unemployment benefit to males between the ages of 16 and 65 and to females between the ages of 16 and 60. This has been the position since unemployment benefit first became payable in 1945. 
However, where special circumstances involving hardship exist, payment of special benefit may be made to a person under 16 years of age who, after becoming a member of the workforce subsequently becomes unemployed. 
 As the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  forecast yesterday, this motion follows on the document already presented. It seems to me that his motion is quite reasonable. If his forecasts are correct, consideration by the committees will conclude within those times; if not, we will have to take it from there. There will be no objection on the motion from the Opposition. 
I wish to associate the Australian Labor Party with the remarks of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson on the occasion of the death of Charles Lamp. I do not intend to speak at length because, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has pointed out, there are few of us, apart from the forty-niners who sat with Charles Lamp for 6 months until his term expired on 30th June 1950 - this includes  Senator Wright  and myself - who were in this place with him. I will leave the main duties of the occasion to  Senator O'Byrne  who, being the father of the Senate, spent at least 3 years with him in this place. Also, as a fellow Tasmanian, he knew Charles Lamp better than anyone in this place. 
Originally, Charles Lamp wrote to me in Western Australia over some matters which I suppose might be called quasi-political and asked me to do something for him. I first met him during the 6 months that he and I were here. I have seen him on a fair number of occasions since those days. I saw him recently whenI was in Tasmania and, as was typical of Charles Lamp, he was still active in the Labor movement. He still took a keen interest in politics and in all the things that arise out of politics - the various things that are developing and the efforts of the Government and the Opposition in this place. 
He was a very personable and charming man. I always had the feeling that he was a man who was devoted to his family. Again, I think this would be consistent because just as he was very much attached to the Australian Labor Party and all those things in which he was interested, I am sure he would also be deeply attached to his family. The Leader of the Government has pointed out that Charles Lamp was wounded in the First World War. It was a wound that caused him quite some distress. I remember travelling in the plane with him to Melbourne when he was going down to his retirement. He was going to Tasmania and I was going to Western Australia. At that time I was quite worried how his health would be from that day on. However, the good Lord spared him over all this time. We regret the passing of an old colleague. Like the Leader of the Government, I wish to associate my Party with the message of condolence to his loved ones. 
I have spoken with the members of my Party who serve on this Committee. They have no objection to that change. They think that it would be more succinct to have the short name. 
I ask the Acting Postmaster-General this question: When does the Minister propose to introduce the legislation foreshadowed in his Press statement of 7th April relating to the power of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to regulate television programmes on Sunday mornings? In the meantime, what is his attitude to TV stations which break the law as it stands at present and which show other than - I quote the Minister's Press statement - 'the special types of programmes which up to now have been regarded as suitable for Sunday morning television'? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows on the question asked by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield. Will the Leader of the Government take the initiative in discussing with the leaders or the managers, whichever we term them, of this House the desirability of rearranging the Notice Paper, particularly the section headed "General Business'? I direct attention to Orders of the Day 16, Health and Welfare Committee - Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons; 17, Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse - Select Committee - Report; 33, Off-shore Petroleum Resources - Select Committee - Report; and 39, Health and Welfare Committee - Proposed Reference of Matter. These appear under the General Business heading. Could the order proposed for consideration of these orders of the day under General Business be rearranged so that the Senate would have some chance of debating them before the present session ends? I suggest that it would not be very difficult to obtain agreement at the levels that I have mentioned. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am grateful for the question. As the honourable senator will recall the Leader of the Opposition has given notice of a motion - it is notice of motion 12  -  in which he suggests that a special time should be set aside each sitting week for the consideration of reports of Senate committees. I am conscious, and I am sure that we are all conscious, of the fact that we have the task of cleaning up the business paper and of removing from it some of the extraneous matters which appear. Perhaps the use of the word 'extraneous' is unfair. We must establish how we may deal with some of these reports in a more extensive way than we have. In fairness to the Leader of the Opposition, I state that I have discussed this matter with him in recent times. We will put our minds to it. I agree with  Senator Willesee,  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, . that what he proposes would be most desirable and that we should strive to have discussions on some of these Senate reports before we lift at the conclusion of this series of sittings. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Because of the unusual nature of today's notice paper and the possible unusual nature of the notice papers next week, will he give some indication of how he thinks the sittings of the Senate will proceed both today and on Wednesday and Thursday of next week? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI thank  Senator Willesee  for asking this question because it affords me the opportunity to get the message through while a good number of honourable senators are in the chamber. Yesterday I outlined a programme which predicated that Estimates Committees A and C would be meeting this afternoon and that on Wednesday and Thursday of next week, after question time and the formal procedures, Estimates Committees would be meeting again. Last night, by mutual consent we dealt at short notice with 3 Bills - the Social Services Bill (No. 2), the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. Those Bills passed through all stages. This caused a little delay in our timing. For that reason we did not complete our consideration of the Public Service Arbitration Bill. We had a vote on the second reading of the Bill and it is now in the Committee stage. It is my intention that we should complete that Bill today. If we do not complete it by lunch time then I suggest that, if necessary - I think we could do it by mutual arrangement - we continue working and dispose of that Bill this afternoon before we actually go to the Estimates Committees. If we dispose of it we will not go on with the other Bills. We will then move to the Estates Committees as arranged. 
Next week is subject, with some reservations, to the work programme, as we all understand. Special or urgent Bills might come from another place. We might have to adjust the programme to meet that situation. 
I reiterate quickly: Today as soon as question time is over we will go into the committee stage of the Public Service Arbitration Bill. If we conclude the Bill before lunch time we will go to the Estimates Committees at 2.15. If we have not concluded the Bill by lunch time the Senate will come back at 2.15 into committee on the Bill until we dispose of it and we will then go to the Estimates Committees. Normally on a Thursday night we deal with general business. There is a feeling - this is common to both sides - that having regard to the commitments which we all have over this coming week when we go away from here, we should not proceed with general business tonight. We will adjourn when we conclude Government business which will probably be about 5.15 p.m. or 5.30 p.m. This will enable those who have to catch planes to go far afield to get away. So, under the circumstances, by agreement, we will not deal with general business tonight. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the Minister acting on advice from the Australian Wheat Board when he stated to the Japanese press, during his recent visit to Japan, that Australia had found that the People's Republic of China does not mix politics with trade, that only good harvests had prevented China buying Australian wheat this year, and that when the Chinese needed wheat they  wouldbuyit? 
Were the Minister's statements completely in accord with the understandings and expectations of the Australian Wheat Board? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Has  Sir Philip  Baxter, former  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, been retained by the Government in a consultative or advisory capacity subsequent to his retirement? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Supply to my question No. 1602 which was placed on the notice paper on 9th November last year. Since the question is a simple one concerning the colour of Commonwealth cars, can the Minister explain the delay in providing an answer? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government, in the recently issued amendments to the Pharmaceutical Benefits  Book  for Approved Chemists, drastically increased the Set price of many pharmaceutical products so that they are pegged above$1. 
Has this been done to keep a large number of items on the National Health Prescribed Lists while these items are actually priced by the manufacturer at less than$1. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The prices of 56 forms and strengths of items listed as pharmaceutical benefits were recently increased, to bring them to a cost slightly in excess of $1.00. All such increases arose out of applications by manufacturers. These applications were closely considered by officers of my Department and were the subject of negotiations with the manufacturers concerned. 
It is the  Government's intention to maintain a comprehensive range of drugs and medicinal preparations on the pharmaceutical benefits list and this was one of a number of factors taken into account in deciding to agree to these price increases. It should be noted that the primary effect of the increases has been to assist patients, who have a genuine medical need for these drugs. They may otherwise have been required to purchase the items at higher prescription mark-up and  dispensing fee levels  as  non-pharmaceutical  benefits. 
As far as practicable, the price increases have been offset by reductions in the prices of other pharmaceutical benefit items. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are drug manufacturers discontinuing the discounts previously available to wholesalers; if so (a) will this cause a further rise in drug prices of at least  6  per cent, and (b) will this rise be in addition to the average price rise of 33 per cent which drug manufacturers have exacted since the Budget last August. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: i am informed that some drug manufacturers have recently reduced the margins they allow wholesalers for handling their products. 
At this stage it is not clear what the overall effect of such moves might be, but  i  am keeping the situation under close examination. 
While there have been price increases in some pharmaceutical benefit items since the Budget, there has not been an average price rise of the order of 33 per cent, as suggested in the question. 
I address a question without notice to the. Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government expressed a view on the current dispute over whether the Straits of Malacca is an internal or international waterway? What effect on Australian shipping and trade would result from the declaration that the Straits were no longer an international waterway? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: If the British Government refuses to approve the new $420 oneway fare to London will Qantas Airways Ltd lose more than $lm? Did Qantas sell bookings at the new fare prior to obtaining the approval of overseas governments? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 Senator WRIGHT (Tasmania - Minister for Works) - by leave - The statement was made by the Prime Minister this afternoon. It was a very brief statement following upon the compulsive event of  President  Nixon's statement. It was thought that honourable senators would have no difficulty in comprehending the full significance of a statement of such brevity, which f read with such clarity. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The point of order is not valid. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! Leave is not granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice:  ls  a  team of experts from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development scheduled to carry out  a  survey of the Australian economy; if so, will ihe result be known before November 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many1ยฝ-ton, 3-ton and 5-ton vehicles now in use by the Postmaster-General's Department, Melbourne Transport Branch, have exceeded (a) 40,000 miles; (b) 60,000 miles; (c) 120,000 miles; and (d) 150,000 miles. 
Has the Postmaster-General's Department the same policy towards replacement and maintenance of vehicles as other Commonwealth Departments; if not, in what respects does PostmasterGeneral's Department policy differ. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) three 3-ton and thirteen 5-ton vehicles 
two1ยฝ-ton, eleven 3-ton and fourteen 5-ton vehicles 
nil 
nil 
Post Office policy on replacement and maintenance of vehicles generally accords with that of other Commonwealth Departments. However, Sedan cars not chauffeur driven can be replaced  at a  slightly lower age and mileage than those of some other Commonwealth Departments. 
My understanding is that  Senator Cavanagh  suggested that the person presenting the petition would then move that it and all similar petitions be received. I think the other suggestion came later on in the debate. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) - 1 think that one of the petitions should be presented and the names of other honourable senators presenting similar petitions should be identified with it. 
The only thing about which I am concerned is that there should be a resolution of the Senate to receive the petitions. To my mind this gives satisfaction to the petitioner. It is not just simply a matter of reading the petitions; I think there should be a resolution of the Senate that we receive the petitions presented by petitioners. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Has the Department of Civil Aviation made a request to the Australian Broadcasting Commission that programmes concerning the Concorde aircraft be submitted to the Department before being broadcast by the ABC? Has an instruction now been given to the current affairs staff of the ABC that programmes on the Concorde should be submitted to DCA before broadcast? 
I ask the Minister for Health whether a recent requirement has been introduced in Great Britain that bottles of tablets prescribed by medical practitioners must bear labels stating their contents. Will the Minister consider a similar labelling policy for tablets prescribed in Australia? 
I can say to the honourable senator that this and other similar matters are currently under examination in my Department. All these matters are considered as they arise. There is no special privilege for anyone in the community in problems such as this. When a country or countries adopt certain procedures in these matters, the question whether they should be applied in our country must very properly be examined in the light of experience in the other places. I shall have the honourable senator's particular question examined and give a reply in due course in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many official post office.' have been downgraded to non-official status, and how many non-official post offices have been closed during the years 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
What are the corresponding numbers  of  downgradings and closures proposed for 1972. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The number of official post offices which were changed to non-official method of operation: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government conducted negotiations with any country other than the United States of America and France regarding the possibility of establishing uranium enrichment facilities in Australia; if so, what countries have been involved and what stage or conclusion has been reached with these discussions. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There have been discussions with a number of countries on various aspects of the possibility of establishing uranium enrichment facilities in Australia, e.g. on the likely demand for enriched uranium, which has a major effect on the need and timing for such a plant; on the status and availability of centrifuge and diffusion technologies; on the suitability of Australia as a possible site for such a plant. These matters have been discussed variously with representatives of the U.K., U.S.A., France, Canada and Japan. In the case of France, as has been announced fairly recently, we are presently engaged in a preliminary assessment of the feasibility of establishing a plant in Australia, based on the use of French diffusion technology. This study is of a preliminary nature, with no commitment to the next detailed stage. Discussions with the other countries have all been of a preliminary nature and no conclusions have been reached. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Do vehicles in the Postmaster-General's Department, Melbourne Transport Branch comply with the Victoria Police Force standards of roadworthiness; if not, in which respect to PostmasterGeneral's Department vehicles fall short of these standards. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many trucks were rented by the PostmasterGeneral's Department, Melbourne Transport Branch, to supplement the services of its own vehicles during each of the last 3 years. 
From which companies were the trucks rented. 
What was the payment to each company for rental charges. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3). Prior to August 1971 vehicles with drivers were hired from time to time from the Department of Supply to meet peak demands. During July 1971 certain vehicles were disposed of because it was not economical to repair them. Until replacement vehicles could be purchased, the need arose to hire vehicles without drivers - a need that could not be satisfied through the Department of Supply. 
Quotations were obtained from leading truck rental firms and the quote submitted by Avis Truck Rental was accepted. For the period 2nd August 1971 to 31st March 1972, less than 6 trucks a day have, on average, been hired from Avis Truck Rental at a total cost of $13,209. 
This debate is one on which all honourable senators should be very skilled because we have had a lot of practice on it over the years. Our Party met to discuss this matter this morning, lt is true, as  Senator Drake-Brockman  has said, that towards the end of a session we frequently make extra efforts and put in extra time. We feel, from looking at the notice paper, that it is not necessary for the motion to be introduced at this stage. Today there are 8 Bills on the notice paper. The debate on 7 of the Bills will be a cognate debate, so they would be dispensed with as one Bill. They would not take very long. I would have thought that, to facilitate matters, it would have been wise if the business had been rearranged so that Order of the Day No. 1 was postponed until after consideration of Nos 2 to 8. If I am any judge, Nos 2 to 8 will be dealt with fairly rapidly. I would think that Order of the Day No. 1 would take much longer to be dealt with because it is a Grant Bill and that kind of Bil] always attracts a lot of speakers. 1 suggest to the Government that it listen to our voice on this matter because we have been tremendously co-operative for quite a long time. Let me digress for one moment to say that 1 agree completely with  Senator Drake-Brockman  on one matter. 1 think 1 speak for everyone when 1 say that we will do everything possible not to sit late at night because it is just nol an efficient time to be sitting. If the earlier commencement times are introduced, that will interfere with the work of committees. We do not work here only during the prescribed sitting hours. On Tuesdays, for instance, the prescribed commencement time is 3 p.m. All honourable senators know that on Tuesdays there are meetings starting from about 9 a.m. onwards. 1 have a permanent commitment at 9 a.m. on Tuesdays. When I was a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee it always sat on a Thursday morning. I think it still does. There is a proliferation of committees. If the motion is carried, this year it will be much more difficult to adhere to those times without impinging on the other duties of honourable senators. 
I suggest seriously to the Government that it postpone the motion to another sitting day. I have mentioned that we have been tremendously co-operative, and I think we have. Today answers were given to 20 questions on notice. It is the right of honourable senators to have those answers read. Today the Labor Party had control of that right in respect, of 15 answers but asked for only 2 to be read.  Senator Greenwood  asked that one of those answers be incorporated in Hansard and on behalf of my Party I agreed. In those circumstances I do not think it can be claimed fairly that we have been in any way difficult in these matters. The amount of time that is being asked for is not great and I make a very gentle suggestion to the Government, completely without offence, that had very long answers not been given by Ministers to some questions at least some time could have been picked up. 
All honourable senators agree that the procedure at question time ought to be tightened up. It could be conducted much better, but some people are not cooperating as much as they should. I do not think philosophical discussions should be started in answer to questions.I say completely without offence to the Government that it is the Government that is asking for extra time. It is within the Government's grasp to make up a lot more time. We are doing everything we can to help and have done so from the early stages of this session. We have agreed to the incorporation in Hansard of second reading speeches. Within our Party this subject is hotly debated. I have allowed second reading speeches to be incorporated but now I am not so sure that my critics in my own Party are not right. We have bent over backwards to assist in getting the business through the Senate. 
I suggest to the Government that the new times will not operate today and that about 3 hours will be picked up over the next 2 days.I do not think there will be a tremendous difference tomorrow. I do not think anything done tomorrow will affect the business of the Senate as shown on the notice paper today.I think the business could be more quickly handled if it were done the other way. and that is within the Government's province. My Party met to discuss this matter today. There was some sympathy for the Government on this hardy annual but it was felt that the Government is a little premature in introducing the motion at this time on this day. My suggestion is that the Government should adjourn the matter until Thursday and then have another look at the situation. At that time we may have a different attitude towards it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has examination of the documents alleged  to  have come from the Rhodesian Information Centre in Crows Nest satisfied officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs that these documents are genuine,  if  so, what action is proposed against those persons who have apparently breached certain laws of the Commonwealth? 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
There is strong circumstantial evidence that the documents are authentic. However they do not constitute grounds for any action by my Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the American firm of management consultants, McKinsey &amp; Co. Incorporated, been retained to conduct an inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission; if so: (a) who authorised the employment of these consultants, (b) what aspects of Australian Broadcasting Commission operation are to be investigated, and (c) what is the fee to be paid to McKinsey's for their services. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which airlines currently hold options to buy the Concorde aircraft. 
How many aircraft are under option to each operator. 
What is the expiry date of the options held by each operator. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) It is understood sixteen airlines hold options for a total of 74 Concorde aircraft as follows: 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry this question: When does the 
Minister expect the completion of the Randall Report on the wool industry, and will the report be presented to Parliament? 
It was a splendid speech; if it took only 3 minutes, it must have been. The average speaking time on a Bill relating to off-shore minerals was 1.3 minutes. On Supply Bill (No. 1), which permits a wide range of subjects to be covered, the average speaking time was 20 minutes. In a debate on days and times of meeting the average time was 4.5 minutes. On the National Health Bill - I cannot think of any subject which would attract more speakers - the average time was 25 minutes. My speech took 4 minutes and perhaps I should be congratulated. The average speaking time on non-broadcasting days was 8.5 minutes. In the debate on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill the average time was 23.25 minutes. On the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, which one would expect to produce many speakers, the average time was  6.6  minutes.  Senator Greenwood  spoke on that Bill. I will not cover speeches on the motion to adjourn the Senate. In the debate on the Australian Industries Development Corporation, which would come within the administration of one of my shadow ministries, I spoke for 38 minutes. I think I could have been pardoned, as that is my particular responsibility, if I had asked for an extension of time over the hour. The average time was 41.25 minutes. 
I do not think honourable senators want me to go on citing these times. Other speaking times on non-broadcasting days were 14.45 minutes, 18.25 minutes, 14.3 minutes, 9 minutes, 8.5 minutes and 20.35 minutes. The average time in adjournment debates was 11 minutes and on a wool industry Bill 8.8 minutes. On loan war service land settlement it was 8 minutes. Again, on conciliation and arbitration, 29 minutes. I have mentioned these figures because I know that we can become emotional about this subject. When we are tired, as I said earlier, a 5-minute speech can seem to occupy 60 minutes. But let us get a sense of history and a sense of the importance of what this Parliament is all about. The one thing I have never become used to in 23 years here is some of the trivia that we deal with, and I am afraid that I never will.  Senator McManus  quite rightly said tonight that at times something needs to be said as a great contribution to the history of this Federal Parliament. 
I suppose it is a quarter of a century since I read Warren Denning's book. He wrote, in effect: 'Do not rubbish the person who sits down and goes to sleep in the chamber'. Very often in those days members would bring in a pillow. He wrote: Do not rubbish him because what he is doing is enabling somebody elected by the people of Australia to say what he thinks in the light of the advice he has had from his people. He is putting something before the national Parliament which may go into legislation and become the law of this nation'. 
 I appreciate the kindly interjection of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am relieved that after all these years in politics I am on the majority side at last. If we are to win like this, need I say any more? 
 I move: 
That the Senate discuss the loss of wheat sales to China as a result of the attitude of the Government. 
I gave notice of this motion on 7th April last year. I did so because of the attitude of the Government and the public statements of the Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The motion I then foreshadowed concluded with the words 'and the public statements of the Leader of the Country Party'. However, in this very fast moving world of politics I do not think many people would recall the statements he made. They related to the loss of wheat sales to the People's Republic of China - referred to by the Government as Communist China in the political context but as Continental China in the context of trade. I am not sure of just where the Government stands on the nomenclature at the present time. 
At the last count I think the population of the People's Republic of China was over 800 million. This country has been discussed not only in the 2 Houses of this Parliament but throughout the world for a long period of years. At the 1955 Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party we laid down a formula on which we said the United Nations ought to acknowledge 16 nations, I think it was in those days, which at that stage were not being recognised by that body. One of the countries was Ireland, another was the People's Republic of China, and there were 14 others. The country that attracted most attention at that time was, of course, the People's Republic of China. The government of the day never lost an opportunity to say to us: 'You are wanting to recognise the People's Republic of China'. Of course, it conveniently forgot about Ireland and the 14 other countries that we mentioned at that time. 
We evolved that principle by saying that, if we were to have a United Nations, that United Nations should not be a closed club. It should not be one of these clubs in which people or countries can be blackballed. If we were to have a talking shop and if we were to have in the world at long last words instead of bullets, the only way that could come about would be to have all the nations of the world brought into this forum. Of course, in God's good time Ireland and the other 13 nations, if my figures are correct after so many years, were admitted as members of the United Nations. We had to live from 1955 until the last session of the United Nations to see the People's Republic of China take its place in that body. I do not deny that people who have very strong feelings about the way the world has moved since nazism and the communist victories in central Europe have been greatly worried. In my view they have over-reacted to the situation. When we first started to hear such words as co-existence, they were regarded as dirty words in the same way as peace was regarded as a dirty word for a long time. 
But I feel that even the conservatives of the world now realise that it is no good saying that these countries, with whose ideologies they may disagree and we may disagree, will go away merely because we disagree with them. To recognise a country is not to accept the form of government in which that country may be indulging. We speak very loosely about democracy. We say that it is the greatest form of government. But when we look around we see that the democracies of the world are few and very far between. There are very few democracies, as we know them, in the world. We believe that democracy is the greatest system. But we must accept that it still has not been accepted by many countries. Many of the emerging countries which have tried democracy have finished up with a form of government that nobody in a democracy wants - a military dictatorship. The fact is that many of these countries are evolving and are now being maintained under military dictatorships, one country that has clung to democracy is India, with all the problems of its more than 500 million people. I suppose that it is an irony of the universe that next to India is the greatest country in the world, in terms of population - China - which adheres to a communist system of government. India adheres to a democratic system of government. As I say, in 1955 when we in the Australian Labor Party said that all nations should be admitted to the United Nations and mentioned the People's Republic of China we handed to our opponents a stick with which to beat us over the head. 
There is another train of . thought that comes in in modern times. It is that not only nations but also parts of nations should be recognised in the United Nations. I suppose that one of the things that people of my generation have done - I think it is one of the less creditable things we have done - is to sit back in our heavens, with a sort of God given infallibility, and say: 'Let us divide up this country. Let us divide up Czechoslovakia'. Before that we divided up Ireland and Korea; China divided up itself; and we divided up Vietnam. I hope the next : generation will see- 
As my friend  Senator Poyser  reminds me, Germany is another case. Surely we see that we have sown the wind and reaped the whirlwind. The debate continues today as to whether we should move to the next point and say that not only is there a geographical or political body that we have known and learnt about in our school books but also, because the people themselves have evolved division or because division has occurred as a result of a political decision in the cases of Czechoslovakia, Vietnam, Korea, Germany and Ireland, those countries should be considered as being divided. 
I say that as a background to the more specific point I put in my motion - I again emphasise that it was framed 12 months ago - involving the whole question of wheat sales to the People's Republic of China. Australia has come through a situation in which we found ourselves and now find ourselves - I agree that this is quite trite - in a rural crisis. In many ways I suppose the attitude of the Australian people as I grew up was that, if we could build a dam and make 2 blades of something grow where only one blade grew before, we were achieving something. We finally learnt that we did not think this matter right through and that it is not very much good growing 2 blades of whatever we grow if we cannot sell it and it is not wise to be bolstering up these rural industries merely for the sake of saying: 'There you are. We are very good people. We have built a dam and in a place where there was nobody before we now have some people living'. 
This thinking has been bedevilled a lot by the fact that over the last 23 years we have had a government in which the majority party has been the Liberal Party and the minority party has been the Country Party, which has been dedicated to the development of the rural industries^ We have had that old fashioned situation of the tail wagging the dog. We must look at the amount of money that the Australian taxpayer, whether he be a worker belonging to one of those terrible trade unions that we hear about from the Gov&gt;ernment side from time to time or a capitalist in the city, is putting his hand in his pocket in order to bolster up industries which finally reach the situation where they are not viable at all. One of the problems that the Government, the people of Australia and no less the Opposition are worrying about is: How do we solve this problem today? In the field of wool, a situ-at ion prevails where perhaps the industry is dying out. After all, at one time the Japanese were noted for their silk. Today if a tourist goes to Japan one of the highlights of the trip is to be taken into a silk shop to see what it looks like. There is the Kanebo silk industry and other types which are very rare sorts of industries. The tourist is shown people weaving the silk. It is one of the highlights of the tourist round to see people weaving silk. 
Nothing in this life is infinite, including us - although from time to time from the way some of us talk people would think we were infinite. Nothing is infinite, whether it be human, a primary industry, metals or anything else. We have a situation in the field of wool which is probably a little different from the other types of situations which bedevil Australian industry today. We cannot make a wool sandwich and eat it. I return to the specific question of wheat. A very interesting situation has evolved in this Parliament. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has insisted for a long time, and I think quite rightly so, that the communist countries relate trade to politics and do not hesitate to use trade on the question of politics; so, if they can obtain a political advantage by using the question of trade, they do not hesitate to do so. I have agreed completely with the members of the DLP when they have said that. They have dealt with the matter on a broad basis, but going back over a few years I can think of half a dozen different commodities which have not attracted the public eye because they have involved small industries, but they have been important industries to emerging countries. When the price can be boosted suddenly and when the purchase of that commodity can be stopped suddenly, a developing country is in trouble. 
Australia would have been in trouble with regard to wheat a long time ago if it had not been for its wheat sales to the People's Republic of China.  Mr Maisey,  who is now a member of Parliament - the honourable member for Moore - was one of the first members of the Wheat Board to suggest selling wheat to the People's Republic of China. At that time I remember all kinds of debates raging about whether the sale was moral, whether we should sell the wheat, whether we should not sell the wheat, whether the People's Republic of China was importing wheat and reselling it, or whether it was holding the imported wheat and selling its rice to other countries to flood the rice bowl in Burma, Vietnam and Thailand and so again use the trade-politico situation which, as I mentioned, the Democratic Labor Party has underlined from time to time. 
Recently there has been a reversal of the situation. Questions asked mainly by members of the Liberal Party, have been trying to point out that the situation was not as I have stated it and that the fact that Canada had recognised the People's Republic of China had nothing to do with the fact that China was buying wheat from Canada and not from Australia. This was a complete reversal of what the DLP had put over the years, with which I have agreed. Nothing is simple in the field of politics or in the field of world trade. It is undoubtedly true that during the last 18 months to 2 years China has been in a strong position because it has had good seasons. That does not alter the fact that at the same time it has had to import wheat and has moved to the Canadian prairies rather than to Australia because Canada had recognised China. Canada came to an agreement with China, getting over the difficulties of Taiwan, which made both sides reasonably happy to sign a document on this level. Our wheat bins were overflowing. So were Canada's wheat bins. 
This is the problem that faces Australia today. That leaves unanswered the question whether, if we had recognised the People's Republic of China at the same time as the Canadians did, the extra imports that China needed in spite of its good seasons would have been divided equally, mathematically or by some other formula between our sister dominion Canada and ourselves. Things have moved a long way since the days when the Labor Party was beaten over the head by the Liberal Government because we advocated the recognition of the People's Republic of China. Forgive me if I do not explain the position quite clearly, because even the Liberals are not clear on this. As I understand the position, under certain circumstances the Liberals will talk turkey or chow mein, whatever the appropriate word is, with the Chinese on whether Australia should recognise China, at the same time keeping open all kinds of options. World opinion has finally pushed the Liberals into a situation in which they are willing to have discussions with Mao Tse-tung and his people to decide whether they will recognise the People's Republic of China. In my view, if we recognise the People's Republic of China, there is no doubt that there will be a resurgence of trade with the People's Republic of China. When we start doing a deal, if I can use those capitalistic words, with the People's Republic of China, we will be doing a deal with a country which has the largest population in the world. It is not the most powerful buying country in the world, but neither is any of the emerging countries. To any government which cares to look a little beyond the subject of immediate trade, surely this is something of significance. The Japanese, those great traders of the East and of our region, are watching the position tremendously closely and are looking beyond merely the next year or two. 
It is interesting to see where else we could sell our surplus wheat. People in the world are wanting food, and countries such as Canada and Austrafia axe producing it but are not able to hand it to those people because of questions of trade, money, overseas balances and credits. 1 hope that all of us are humanitarians and moralists - I include every person in the Chamber in that category - and it does seem that in 100 years time history will judge us on these things. Russia is a vast country. It is, I think, the greatest land mass in the world with a population of 245 million. 1 wonder whether the politics of the situation have prevented Australia and Canada, both of whom have difficulty in disposing of certain food commodities, handing over the surplus food to these starving people. If the high finance could be settled we could hand the food to them. If we could do that, it would be a humanitarian act. It would help the people wbc go to bed at night hungry. I think the statistics show that more people go to b;d at night hungry than quite contented. If we provided the food that would help promote international understanding. At the same time - I put this lastly, because of a selfish attitude - it would help our farmers stay on the wheat fields of Australia. 
I am one of the few speakers tonight who has not asked that the debate on the matter that I placed on the notice paper 12 months ago be postponed. 1 deliberately ignored the utterances of  Mr Anthony  becauseI did not think it would be fair,,  12  months later, to be asking him what he meant when he made his statement. Like the words of all parliamentarians, the words of  Mr Anthony  will not live for very long. But the problem in relation to which he uttered the words has lived on. Today the situation is not very much different from what it was  12  months ago. The rural crisis, if anything, is worse. The recognition of the People's Republic of China has not developed, although we had a lot of utterances about it. A lot of people in the world are still starving, and we have a surplus of food. Those matters, I believe, are worthy of the attention of a national parliament in any part of the world. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Young)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen reports that the Victorian Health Minister has decided lo require the placing of health warnings on cigarette packets. 
If the Victorian government proceeds with this action will the Minister take steps to ensure that similar action is taken in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated loss to Commonwealth revenue, in a full year, resulting from the variation of the operation of section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act announced by the Treasurer in his statement of 11th April 1972. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Treasurer has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not practicable to make a reliable estimate of the full year effect on Commonwealth revenue of the proposed variation in the operation of section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act announced on11th April 1972. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to  Senator Lawrie's  question yesterday regarding the refusal of insurance companies to cover property damage caused by sonic booms. The Minister replied that he was astonished at the report. Does the Minister remember his answer to an almost identical question from  Senator Laucke  on 12th April, which apparently did not astonish him? Can he tell the Senate the results of the inquiries which 6 weeks ago he promised  Senator Laucke  had already been instituted? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I was told by the Treasurer yesterday in reply to a question on notice that a reliable estimate of the loss of revenue arising from amendment to section 26 (a) of the Act could not be made. I ask: Is it the practice of the Government to introduce financial measures without any idea of their effect on the Budget? If not, why has the Government acted in the dark in this case? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has any instruction been given to the current affairs staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission that programmes concerning the 'Concorde' aircraft should be submitted to the Department of Civil Aviation before being broadcast. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the names of the council members of the Good Neighbour Councils in each State and Territory. 
What is the employee establishment of each of the above Councils. 
What is the salary of each of the classes of employee referred to above. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Accredited membership of Good Neighbour Councils in each Stale and Territory comprises more than 600 delegates of affiliated organisations and more than 5,000 voluntary workers and other representatives. 1 have assumed that the honourable senator wishes to have only the names of those members elected to the Executive Committee of the Good Neighbour Council in each State and Territory, and these are listed hereunder. It will be noted that the Good Neighbour Council of Queensland has an Executive Committee comprising Vice-Presidents only. 
NEW SOUTH WALES 
President - 
Air Marshall  Sir John  McCauley, K.B.E., C.B. 
Vice-Presidents - 
MrsJ. Metcalfe. M.B.E. 
Rev. C. W. Stolz 

 Mr M. Lajovic 

 Mrs W. Cullen, O.B.E. 
Hon. Treasurer ; 

 Mr F. Johnson 
Members - 
MrsB. Bourke 

 Mr H. Frank 
The  Hon. Mrs E.  Furley, O.B.E., M.L.C. 

 Dr C. H. Hoffman 

 Mr Mirabitur 

Miss E. Needham 

 Mr T. Rutherford 

 Mr R. Treister 

 Mrs R. Tyson 
Rev. R. O. Walder 

 Mrs D. Buckland 

 Mr J. Russell 

 Mr M. Maitland 
Rev. D. Eland 
Ex-officio Members - 

 Mr E. W. Waterman (Commonwealth Director of Migration) 

 Mr J. Cunningham (State Migration Officer) 

 Mr J. Lawson (State Manager, Commonwealth Hostels Ltd) 

 Mr G. Austen (Department of Labour and Industry) 
VICTORIA 
President - 

 Mr M. Harrison, C.B.E., J.P. 
Immediate-past President - 

 Mr H. R. McKenzie, M.B.E. 
Vice-Presidents - 

 Mrs K. H. BrightParker 
Rev. D. R. Cox 
The Rev. Father J. Murphy 

 Mrs R. J. Reader, O.B.E., J.P. 
Hon. Treasurer 

 Mr E. Thomlinson 
Members - 
Miss B. Battle 

 Mrs R.Ihle 


 Mrs B. Burton 

 Mrs I. Capek 

 Mr F. de Graaf 
Rev. J. D. Griffiths 

 Mrs J. Hamilton 

 Mr L. Levinson 

 Mr R. Lloyd 

 Mrs L. H. Pink 
Brigadier W. Shaw 

 Mrs E. Utassy 
Ex-officio Members - 

 Mr K. J. Smith (Commonwealth Director of Migration, Victoria) 

 Mr W. J. Dunne (Director, State Immigration Office) 

 Mr W. K. Allen (Department of Labour and National Service) 

 Mr . J. Ratos (Victorian Manager, Commonwealth Hostels Ltd) 

 Mr E. R. McClean (Supervisor, Migrant Education ; Adult) 
QUEENSLAND 
President - 

 Mr R. H. Wainwright, O.B.E. 
Vice-Presidents - 
MrJ. van Vegchel 

 Dr G. Bonnin 

 Mr J. C. Lamb 

 Mrs S. H. Michael 

 Mr I. Debelak 
Hon. Treasurer 

 Mr J. J. Rowell 
Chairman of Contact Committee - 

 Mrs O. Hill 
Ex-officio Members - 

 Mr V. White (Commonwealth Director of Migration) 

 Mr W. Sheehan (State Migration Officer) 

 Mr V. G. Atkinson (Department of Social Services) 

 Mr M. Mackrell (Slate Education Department) 

 Mr H. Bale (Commonwealth Hostels Ltd) 
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 
President - 

 Sir Keith Wilson 
Immediate Past President - 

 Mr J. Horton Evins 
Vice-Presidents - 

 Mrs E. Mayo, O.B.E. 

 Mr I. B. C. Wilson 

 Mr J. A. Kiosoglous 

 Mr J. P. MacFarlane 
Hon. Treasurer 

 Mr D. Neill 
Members - 

 Mrs H. Bosch 
Miss M. L. Davey, M.B.E. 

 Dr D. Gaal 

 Mr J. Guscott, M.B.E. 

 Mr C. W. Reeves 
Rev. G. H. Young 

 Mr P. Riess 
Ex-Officio Members - 

 Mr G. A. Cole (Commonwealth Director of Migration) 

 Mr K. J. Fitzgerald (Regional Director, Department of Labour and National Service) 

 Mr C. L. Fitzgerald (Department of Education and Science) 

 Mr T. R. Keig (State Immigration Officer) 

 Mr A. H. Sansom (Migrant Education Officer, S.A. Education Department) 

 Mr R. D. Gray (S.A. Manager, Commonwealth Hostels Ltd) 

 Mr D. W. Moffat (Public Relations Officer) 

 Mr R. N. Telfer (Editor of Newsletter) 
WESTERN AUSTRALIA 
President - 

 Mr J. R. Huelin 
Immediate-Past President - 

 Mr W. W. Rawlinson, M.C. 
Vice-Presidents - 
The Rev. J. M. H. Rowdon 

 Mr M. L. T. Wright 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Ministers have undertaken official overseas trips since 1st January 1971. 
In each case, what were the dates of (a) commencement, and (b) completion of the trip. 
In each case, (a) what was the purpose of the trip, and (b) which countries were visited. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Twentyfour Ministers have undertaken official overseas visits since 1st January 1971. 
and (3) See the answer provided to Question No. 4940 (House of Representatives Hansard of 23rd May 1972, pages 2938-9). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the composition of the Australian delegation to the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment been finalised; if so, what are the names of these persons. 
What papers has Australia submitted to the Conference and will the Minister make available copies of these papers for perusal by honourable senators. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 14th May 1972 the Prime Minister announced that the delegation will consist of: 
The Honourable Peter Howson, M.P., Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts (Leader) 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. The  Chairman  of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee said that he had visited Paris twice and had also visited the Pacific test site in connection with the recent series of French nuclear tests. Did he make these trips officially? If so, what was their purpose? Did he negotiate with the French authorities regarding the tests? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral reached any agreement with the States regarding a uniform system of controls for travel agents involving such things as a bonding and licensing system? Regardless of any such agreement, does the Attorney-General propose any regulation of the travel agencies operating in Commonwealth territories? 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at  a  later stage. 
Leave granted: Debate adjourned. 
Did the AttorneyGeneral announce on 20th July that he was studying a departmental review of the role, functions and performance of the Commonwealth Police? If so, will he table that report? 
At the request of  Senator Murphy  and with the concurrence of  Senator Byrne  I move: 
That notices of motion No. 1, standing in the name of  Senator Murphy,  No. 2 standing in the name of  Senator Byrne  and Nos 3 and 4 standing in the name of  Senator Murphy  be postponed until next Tuesday 22nd August. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the total expenditure to date on the now deferred Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station Project, and will the Minister provide a breakdown of this expenditure. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
A total of $3,164,052 was expended to 31st March 1972, on the Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station Project Details are: 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Government intend to continue with the inquiry into income tax? If so, when does the Minister expect to be able to announce the names of the other members of the committee of inquiry to be chaired by  Mr Justice  Asprey? 
The Bill, as the  Clerk  has just announced, is the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill 1972 which, honourable senators will recall, was postponed in the dying hours of the last session because the industry asked for this to be done. The Senate agreed to follow that course. I intend to move - and I will explain why - that this Bill be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade for examination and report. 
The history of this matter is that in 1967, I think, the Government first introduced special grants to enable Australian industries to be financed and subsidised in respect of research work in the fields mainly of mining and manufacturing. This measure was introduced because -it was felt that Australian, industry was relying far too much on overseas technology and research. The Bill that was introduced, this year sought to amend that legislation because it appeared prima facie that the grants as they were being made were not having the desired effect. Accordingly, it was decided that the legislation should be recast so that it would do the things that the first Bill had failed to do. I am sure that all honourable senators have had correspondence from organisations such as the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures which has conducted a lot of research and inquiries into this new Bill. Some objections to this legislation have been raised. It seems to me that this is an ideal type of Bill to refer to a standing committee. Speaking for myself, I certainly envisaged - I think We all did - that standing committees would be distinct from other committees in that they would be set up to operate for a long period and to examine various matters referred to them including Bills of this nature. We know who the personnel of our standing committees are. An examination could be made of this Bill and evidence could be sought from all interested parties on which the committee could report to the Senate as to whether the Bill could be improved or on the other hand that the Government's original ideas are correct and that no improvement is possible. In other words, the committee would   do what standing committees were set up to do and should set out to do. 
I wish to quote from a very long letter, running into 8 pages, from the Victorian Chamber of Manfactures. I . do not intend to quote from all of the pages but I wish to give the Senate some idea of the letter's contents. If we tried to cover all aspects of this matter tonight' by arguing back and forth, we would be doing the job that a standing committee is far better equipped to do. I sympathise with bodies ' such as the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures in trying to put all . relevant thoughts in a letter such as this. 1 will quote portions of the letter. The. first quo- .tation I make gives some .praise to the Government. The letter states: 
Many of the provisions in the Bill are considered beneficial to industry as whole. " ' 
This body is arguing that it wants to support this Bill but it wishes to overcome the problems that were contained in the original Bill. It goes on to state: 
However, with a more detailed study, of the operating effect of this Bill has come the realisation that certain aspects of the legislation will prove detrimental to the achievement of its objectives. 
We see that, although this body agrees that it wants this type of assistance, it is able with its experience to offer some advice to the Government. It states further: 
Other aspects of the Bill are uncertain. It is not made clear how overhead items will be treated in the base period calculations. 
The last quotation that I make from this letter is this:  lt is considered reasonable that there should be some revision of the method of assessment of base period expenditure. In this regard the adding of a new 3 years period averaged as proposed may remove some anomalies which exist under the present system. 
To summarise this letter as best I can without going into a very long dissertation on this subject, this Bill will require an industry which seeks grants continually to increase their level of expenditure on research and development. A company which maintains a fixed expenditure on research and development in a short period will receive no benefit at all. The concept of rapidly increasing research and development expenditure over a 3 year period favours the quite small company and the very large company. The very small company, because of the reduced sum it expends on research and development, could quite easily give a large percentage boost to its research and development expenditure without in aboslute terms a large increase in expenditure. Obviously, if a company is spending a small amount on research and development, it is easy to attract a Government grant by increasing that amount because this will not cost the small company very much money. A large company may also maintain a large percentage annual increase in its research and development budget because although the absolute sums of money involved are considerable they are quite small in relation to the overall expenditure of a company of that size. Medium sized companies, on the other hand, will find it difficult to sustain large percentage increases in their annual research and development expenditure. 
A large proportion of the money granted under the present Act and proposed in the new Bill goes to foreign owned companies. There is some evidence to suggest that some of these foreign owned companies are increasing the amount of research and development performed in Australia. This is being done because these companies can get the Australian Government to pay half of the cost of research and development. It should be remembered also that expenditure on research and development is an allowable deduction in assessing companies for income tax. As company income tax is currently at the rate of 47i per cent, this means that research is almost wholly subsidised by the Government. The situation is that overseas companies, because of their size and because of these 2 provisions, can almost have the Australian Government subsidising and in fact financing the whole of their expenditure on research and development. 
The current position is that the Government is trying to do something for research and development. The Opposition agrees that this is a good thing. At the same time, we want expert advice. It may be that if this Bill is referred to a standing committee contra evidence to the proposition that I have quoted mainly from the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures - I have information from others oh my file but I have chosen this body because obviously it is responsible and it must be knowledgeable on this subject - will be forthcoming from other organisations. Anyone who wishes to do so may put evidence before such a committee and that evidence may disagree with the proposition that I have quoted. This is the important thing: Perhaps the Australian Government even now is lagging behind other governments of the world because the evidence is that all governments - when I say 'all governments' I am speaking of those of the Western world of which we take notice, including the United States of America. Japan, Canada and West Germany - are increasing expenditure on research and development. Not only is this expenditure increasing but also it is accelerating fairly rapidly. There is evidence that in countries like Germany and Japan - these are developing countries with a high national product - the productivity rate is very great, and the morale in these areas is quite high. The latest available information on the development of our own country indicates the sort of achievements that have been attained. They are quite impressive as far as one can judge that they are impressive. One is in difficulty in dealing with a grant of $2,500 because one does not know whether in terms of the company involved that is a good deal of money or a small amount of money. One does not know the product but the amount seems fairly impressive. 
This Bill is typical of those which could be referred to a Senate standing committee. This Bill would provide work of the type for which I think we set up these committees. As I see it, this would be a job of not long duration. I cannot speak on behalf of the Committee but I think that in a matter of weeks it could rapidly examine the matter and report to the Senate on its progress. After all, this legislation has been held up for the last 3 months because the industry asked that it be held over to give it a chance to examine the contents of the new Bill. It seems to me that it is most appropriate that my suggestion should be adopted. 
What is the Opposition doing? It has agreed to support this Bill. The Government is seeking to amend its original ideas on this legislation. The Opposition has some worries about the Bill. One is that overseas companies seem to enjoy a pretty fair go, and probably a little more than a fair go, in respect of the money that is paid by way of these grants. Other matters that the Senate standing committee might well consider include what is the beneficial result of this research and development? Should this information be made available for the rest of Australia? Are grants of this type appropriate? It seems to me that the complaints are not on the grounds of the amount of money that is. being expended by the Government . but merely on the best way to expend that money. 
As I say, with all the files that I am sure we all have on this matter, we could enter into a long argument and debate on this Bill. I do not think that this would be beneficial because each of us would be taking certain angles about which we probably would not know very much. I merely raise this proposition. The amendment that 
I will put before the Senate will propose that this legislation be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade under the chairmanship of  Senator Prowse.  That Committee could examine this legislation. I would not put a time limit on its examination because that might be unfair to the Committee, but I do not see any difficulties at all in such an inquiry because obviously the people who have made these complaints or suggestions are ready to give evidence on notice of a couple of days. It has been extant in Australia since 1967, and I suggest that an examination could be made within a few weeks. The Senate would then b.e in a much better position to suggest amendments. I am sure the Government is trying to do something about it, and I know that the Opposition is trying to assist. It would be in a much stronger position if it moved an amendment accordingly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that cars which are coloured black absorb heat more readily, and suffer higher interior temperatures, than cars of lighter colour. 
Has the Minister seen reports on research which shows that black coloured cars are more prone to accident that white cars. 
Will the Minister take steps to phase-out black coloured cars from the Commonwealth Transport Service and have them replaced by cars of a lighter colour. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My Department's experience and practical tests indicate that interior temperatures in black cars exposed to direct sunlight when stationary are higher than in lightercoloured cars in similar circumstances, the absolute difference being greater when windows are closed. For general use the internal temperature is also influenced by the upholstery type and colour, the insulation between interior and engine and roof, and the ventilation. Higher internal temperatures are usually welcome in winter. 
I am aware of reports on research into the relationship between the colour of cars and accident rates. Some, though not all, conclude that black cars do tend to have a higher accident rate than lighter coloured cars. 
My Department controls approximately 5,000 vehicles of which a considerable number are made available on a permanent hire basis to other Departments. Approximately 2,000 of these are buses or transport trucks and trailers and other non-passenger carrying types . Until quite recently practically all of these were coloured light grey, but since 1971 newly purchased or repainted vehicles have been a. combination of yellow and white. The transition will be complete in approximately 3 years. There are 2,500 passengercarrying vehicles of which only some 400 are black. The other approximately 2,100 are light blue with white roofs, and I have recently instructed that replacements shall be in white. The black cars, practically all of which are driven by professional department drivers, are often used on ceremonial and official occasions, for which it has been considered the most appropriate colour is black. 
For about 10 months this question has been under review, with reference to research material. A report of the expert group on road safety established under the chairmanship of.  Mr Justice  Meares by my colleague the Minister for Shipping and Transport is to advise on theroad accident situation in Australia and to report on fundamental causes and ways and means of reducing the road toll. 
In addition, on llth May 1972, the. House of Representatives appointed a Select Committee on Road Safety. I would anticipate that that Committee will take vehicle colour into account in its deliberations. 
I am keeping the matter under active consideration and findings of both these bodies will be closely examined. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Interim Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science warned , that the proposed site of the Institute at Cape Pallarenda could be subject to pollution from a nearby nickel smelter. 
What consultation has taken place between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments to frame legislation controlling pollution from the nickel smelter. 
What are the projected output rates of all types of effluent from the nickel smelter. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Education and Science has provided the. following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) In my second reading speech Introducing the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill on 23rd March 1972, I provided some information on this matter. 
The Commonwealth has raised with the Queensland Government the question of possible pollution of the Cape Pallarenda site from a smelter associated with the Greenvale Nickel Mining Project. 
The Queensland Government has now advised that the companies involved in that project will be required to control the quality of effluents from the smelter to conform to standards laid down in accordance with the relevant State legislation. Action is being taken under the Clean Air Act with regard to gaseous effluent, and, as there could be a risk of marine pollution without adequate control measures for liquid effluents,  a  technical Committee has been set up by the Queensland Government to study this problem. 
The Committee is working to establish preliminary requirements for wastes disposal at an early date. It is also examining proposals for the intensive investigations which it considers will be necessary to establish the firm requirements which should be included in the licence to be issued by the Water Quality Council under the Clean Waters Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: .. 
Will the Minister table in the Parliament the terms of reference of the Franco-Australian joint feasibility study of the technical and economic aspects ' of constructing a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commissariat a l'Energie Atomique (C.E.A.) of France and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission are undertaking a joint feasibility study of the technical and economic aspects of constructing a uranium enrichment plant in Australia using gaseous diffusion technology. 
The terms of the agreement to undertake the study are confidential for commercial reasons and therefore cannot be tabled. However the following information can be provided. 
No commitment has been made to build an enrichment plant in Australia. The 2 organisations are now undertaking the first stage of the feasibility study which will take about one year to complete. 
The objectives of the study are: 
to define possible sites and to determine the costs of constructing and commissioning a uranium enrichment plant at these sites; 
to make estimates of the operating costs of an enrichment plant established at the sites so as to define, as far as possible in a first stage study, the likely economic value of such a venture; 
to assess the costs of providing electrical energy to the potential sites for an enrichment plant; 
to examine the other resources such as industrial support, manpower and materials, that would be involved in the establishment and operation of a uranium enrichment plant. 
In the light of the results of the first stage study the Government will consider whether it will proceed to a second phase in which the technical and economic factors could be examined in greater depth. No commitment has been entered into, however, to proceed beyond the first stage of the study. 
asked the Minister  for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the curfew been broken by aircraft at Brisbane Airport since 1st January 1972. 
In each case, what was: 
the name of the airline; 
the time of arrival; 
the reason for the flight; and 
the destination or port of origin. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The restriction on aircraft operations into or out of Brisbane Airport between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. applies only to jet aircraft. This restriction is strictly enforced, and the Department of Civil Aviation will not approve schedules involving operations by jet aircraft within this period. 
These are however occasions on which flights must operate within the curfew period in order to cater to unusually high traffic demands at certain times of the year, such as Christmas, Easter and school holidays. These flights, which 1 approve, receive my special approval only when I am convinced that their operation within the curfew period is essential to provide for the needs of the travelling public. 
In addition to the flights which I approve, authorised officers of the Department of Civil Aviation approve flights which, through unforeseen circumstances, justify approval on short notice to intrude into the curfew period. 
From 1st January to 30th April 1972 inclusive, 40 operations by jet aircraft took place at Brisbane Airport within the curfew period with my approval, and 14 took place with the approval of authorised officers of the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The name of the airline, the time of arrival or departure, the reason for operation within the curfew period, and the point from which the flight originated or to which it was immediately destined, in respect of each of the 54 flights concerned, is as shown in the following table: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Idustry, upon notice:  (.1) How many officers of the Department of Trade and Industry have a knowledge of (a) Chinese, (b) Japanese, (c) Indonesian, (d) Arabic, and (e) Spanish. 
In each of the above languages, how many officers have attained the various levels of proficiency. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Trade and Industry has given me the following answer: 
The numbers of officers of the Department of Trade and Industry (excluding officers of the Tariff Board) who have a knowledge of the languages listed in the question are: 
Chinese 12 
Japanese 33 
Indonesian 34 
Arabic 4 
Spanish 41 
The numbers of officers who have attained the various levels of proficiency are: 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen the statement made yesterday by Brigadier Eldridge, the retiring Joint Force Commander in Papua New Guinea, in which he called for the handing over of control of the armed forces before the granting of independence to the Territory; if so, can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has determined any timetable for the handing over of control of the Territory's armed forces to the Papua New Guinea authorities. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Further to my reply to the honourable senator to his similar question without notice on 13th April 1972, the Minister for External Territories has advised that the matters referred to by the retiring Joint Force Commander in Papua New Guinea on 11th April are under examination in the Department of Defence in conjunction with other departments. As stated in the recent Australian Defence Review, studies are proceeding on a number of important matters as a basis for future consideration in Australia and in Papua New Guinea. As the Minister for Defence has also said, the Parliament will be advised of decisions as they are made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Trade and Industry recently completed asurvey of research and development expenditure in a sample of Australian mining and manufacturing industries; if so, when can publication be expected of the results of this survey. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The results of the survey of industrial research and development in respect of companies engaged in manufacturing and mining operations in Australia is in the final stages of printing and should be published within the next few weeks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is Australia currently negotiating with France to arrange  a  treaty for co-operation in the peaceful use of atomic energy; if so, is it the Government's intention that the treaty should be in similar terms to that signed in February between Japan and Australia. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. On 16th June 1969, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the French Commissariat  a  1'Energie Atomique concluded an agreement to collaborate in the peaceful uses of atomic energy. This agreement between the 2 authorities is considered to be adequate and no further negotiations are contemplated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it possible for Australia to enter into  a  treaty arrangement enabling the export of Australian uranium, if the uranium receiving nation in the treaty, is not a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. It is possible for Australia to enter into such a treaty arrangement. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the former  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission,  Sir Phillip  Baxter, been retained by the government in any consultative or advisory capacity subsequent to his retirement. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Sir Phillip Baxter is a member of the National Radiation Advisory Committee. He is not engaged by the Commonwealth Government in any other consultative or advisory capacity. 
 I move - 
That the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill 1972 be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
We are ail aware that there is no disagreement about the desirability of this Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, Is it true that at present there is no law in Papua New Guinea making telephone tapping illegal? If so, what regulations govern police phone tapping activities in the Territory and what is the current frequency of police phone tapping? 
We agree with the new Bill, for it picks up errors of the old. However, as  Senator Little  pointed out, a new factor has emerged. I do not agree with the Minister for Civil Aviation that an unconscionable delay would be caused by referring the Bill to the Standing Committee. 1 understand that in the Parliaments of Great Britain, Canada and the United States such a Bill would be referred to a committee precisely asI have moved. The Bill is typical of the kind I have always understood a committee would examine. There would be only a brief reference to the Committee, perhaps only a few days, in which the Chamber of Manufactures could make its representations, the departmental objections could be raised, and anybody who has not yet been heard could be heard.I am aware that the majority of honourable senators will take an opposing view, therefore there is no point in my arguing further. I add only that the Opposition takes this course in an attempt to effect a better Bill. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Willesee's)  be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration whether a request has been received from the British Government for Australia to accept as migrants some of the Asians whom the Government of Uganda is to expel from their homeland? If so, what are the terms of the request? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Australian Government participated in any of the diplomatic initiatives which have tried to persuade General 
Amin to alter his decision , to expel all Asians at present living in Uganda? Does the Government have any proposals for action to persuade the Ugandan Government to desist from or delay proceeding with its expulsion orders? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General seen reports that various pharmaceutical manufacturers intend to withhold supplies from certain chain stores which intend to sell these products at lower prices than charged by present retail outlets? 
Will the Attorney-General take action to ensure that this price cutting and hence antiinflationary move by chain stores is not frustrated by any restrictive trade practices on the part of manufacturers? 
Is the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the annual report of the Commonwealth Auditor-General discloses that the United States of America has overcharged Australian Service departments at least Sim for defence equipment in the past 2 years? Did the Auditor-General state that the United States Government had agreed to return $252,000 and investigate other claims but that Australia could find it difficult to recover all the money because of the time lag? If so, will the Minister explain how such a large error occurred and what positive steps are being taken to rectify this costly mistake and to avoid a recurrence? 
 I thank the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  and the Senate for their courtesy. I think I can promise that I shall not take up the full time because I am one of those people who believe always that the length of a speech does not have anything to do with the wisdom of it. In fact I think that sometimes quite the reverse is true. If this is a minority view for a parliamentarian, at least minorities have their rights. Before beginning my remarks on the Budget I should like to apologise on behalf of  Senator Murphy  who normally would be the opening  speaker  for the Aus tralian Labor Party. He has succumbed to the wog which is taking a toll of so many senators. I suppose this is fairly understandable when we realise that probably the worst victim of all is the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  in respect of whom it is perhaps a case of the physician being unable to cure himself. 
Last year in introducing what was his first Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape its Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. 
This year in introducing what will be his last Budget  Mr Snedden  should have said: Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape its Budget to serve an overriding electoral purpose.' Let there be no mistake about it: This is a Budget designed to try to save the Government's fortunes at the coming general election. Anyone who fails or refuses to face this obvious fact is in the kindergarten stage of politics or, indeed, of electoral responsibility. Considerations such as sound economic practice and the introduction of measures to advance the cause of genera) social welfare and equity have all been submerged beneath the paramount purpose of maintaining this tired, desperate and political bankrupt Government in office. 
Looking at the Treasurer as he delivered his Budget this year we marvelled at his change of heart from last year. Here, indeed, was the miser turned profligate. A comparison of this year's Budget with that of last year shows that  Mr Snedden,  on behalf of the Government, can expect to feature briefly in future history books as the traffic-light Treasurer. He has shown himself to be one of Australia's leading exponents of stop-go economics, but without the concession or courtesy of an amber light. The Treasurer was anxious, perhaps as an election slogan, to give a brief portrayal of the Budget as he saw it. He said: Taxes down, pensions up and growth decisively strengthened.' In the old days we always gave a name to the Budget but this one, so far, has not attracted a name. If I had the job of giving it a name I would call it a Band-Aid Budget because it has been hastily slapped on the unhealed wounds inflicted by his Budget of last year. 
Let me now deal in some detail with various aspects of this politically motivated Budget. I deal first with unemployment. The day before the Budget was brought down the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  announced that during July unemployment had reached 2 per cent of the work force. In seasonally adjusted terms this meant that more than 112,000 members of the Australian work force were out of a job. Hard core unemployment, which is indicated by the number of workers on the dole, had risen to 43,000 - more than double the corresponding figure for the previous year. The other important employment statist tics - the number of registered job vacancies - fell to 31,000. The unemployment situation is extremely grim. When" Labour Party members and senators have drawn attention to the high rate of unemployment and the prospect of its worsening, Government spokesmen have been quick to accuse us of being latter day Jeremiahs. We have been accused of undermining business confidence. Worst of all, we have had the impudence to be correct. 
The annual report of the Reserve Bank released last week indicates that unemployment cannot be expected to drop significantly in the near future. What does the Treasurer have to say about unemployment? He says: 
The figure compares well with almost any other developed country today. But it is still too high for us and we are determined to reduce it. 
When Ministers are replying to questions that they have written out for their back benchers relating to these comparisons, I wish they would be a little fair and point out that the way in which the Australian set-up numbers its unemployment is vastly different from the system used in other countries. Let me mention only one country. Canada. They count their Indians in their unemployed. We do not count our Aborigines as unemployed. In Canada they count youth labour in their unemployed. Many of the hotels at leading tourist attractions in Canada are run by school children, by which I mean people who attend universities and high schools. I am referring to places like Jasper which closes down during the snow period. For those honourable senators who cannot recall where Jasper is on the map, it is the place where  Mr Gorton  fell off his horse. If one goes to those places one sees that they are run entirely by youths, males and females. Canada has a system under which a person, with the very first pay packet he- draws, is given a social security number.. When he is back at the university or attending his latter days of high school he is still on the unemployed list. The moment that anyone goes out of work - on the very first day - he is counted as unemployed, whereas' in Australia there is a delay. In addition to that, because of the very definite winters in Canada, with conditions which we do not have ' in'"'this country, there is a distinct stopping of seasonal work. This has nothing to do' with the way in which' the unemployed are ' counted, but it is one "of the differences between that country and this. 

 Senator- Byrne - We have seasonal unemployment in Queensland. ., ' , 
Yes, but when there is seasonal unemployment- in Australia a person can move.;from one place to another.- He is not completely pinned down. Once the snow falls on. the prairies of Canada, everything- ceases. I merely suggest that the Government, to be a little honest and not misleading when it is dealing :with ^comparisons between other countries and Australia,- should mention these things. I realise that. it. is almost impossible to draw parallel; lines in any comparison . between this : and another country.  Mr Snedden  said . that unemployment is still too high for us* and that he is determined, to reduce it-..  -.His  professed determination is not matched by any proposed action discernable in - the Budget. The unemployed must pin their hopes on the bulk of the income tax cuts being quickly spent so as to boost demand and create employment. 
The Treasurer this year- has thrown $432,m to the taxpayers and he hopes that they will spend it. Let us consider who will receive this money 'before we decide whether it is likely that it will, be spent. He made great play of the fact that the tax scale has been restructured. On inspection we see that the restructuring affords only small relief to the bulk of taxpayers. In line with Liberal Party principles, the tax restructure still contrives to be .most generous to the rich.  Dr Peter  Sheehan of the 
Australian National University has given an analysis of the income tax cuts. He said that despite the tax cuts over 1972-73 as a whole, the average taxpayer would pay a higher proportion of his income in tax than he did last year. From a welfare aspect he has estimated that more than half of the value of the proposed cuts would go to only the top 15 per cent of income earners. 
The Treasurer's typical family man - the average wage earner with a wife and 2 children - pays a higher proportion of his income in tax under the McMahon Government than under any government in our history. The number of cents in each dollar earned which must be paid in tax was 2.9 in the last year of the Chifley Government. It was 10.3c in the dollar in the last year of the Menzies Government, 11.4c in the dollar in the last year of the Holt Government and 13.9c in the dollar in the last year of the Gorton Government. In the first year of the McMahon Government the average income earner paid IS. 8c in the dollar. That rate topped them all. He will now pay 14.1c in the dollar. In the McMahon years - in this year's Budget and in last year's Budget - the Australian wage earner is paying tax at the highest rate ever levied by any government in our history. The relief which the Treasurer purported to produce last Tuesday is real only in terms of the excess for which he was responsible last year. The taxpayer will not pay less tax.  His  tax increase is a bit lower than it would have been if nothing had been done. As any child knows, the remaining money that goes to the people who have the responsibilities buys less under the McMahon Government than under any other government in our history. 
The Treasurer spent much of his time talking about percentage tax cuts. Let us look at what is important - the absolute value in dollars and cents of these cuts to the taxpayer. I have assumed in these figures that the wage earner has a wife and 2 children. I intend to cite a few figures because of the falsehood that is going around about what is a middle class taxpayer, a high class taxpayer and a low class taxpayer. The figures are most revealing and almost unbelievable, but they are correct because they are taken from official documents. Forty-two per cent of taxpay ers get $64 or less a week. The wage earner on $64 a week will pay $1.45 a week less in tax. Fifty-one per cent of taxpayers get $74 or less a week. A man on that income will pay $1.80 a week less in tax. Sixty-eight per cent of taxpayers get $93 or less a week. A man on that income will pay $2.35 a week less in tax. Ninetyone per cent of taxpayers get $147 or less a week. A man on $147 a week will pay $4.05 a week less in tax. Ninety-seven per cent of taxpayers get $200 or less a week. A man on that income will pay $5.75 a week less in tax. A salary of $200 a week is the equivalent of about $10,000 a year. Honourable senators will remember when with much publicity the Gorton Government gave a flat rate tax cut and heralded to the world that it had improved conditions for the lower and middle income earners. The fact was that people were glibly talking about $10,000 a year as being the middle to lower income. In fact, 97 per cent of wage earners are receiving less than that. These figures show that the much vaunted restructuring amounts to little more than tinkering with an outdated tax scale. 
I quote from a paper that was distributed by the Treasurer with the Budget Papers. It is headed 'Income Tax on Individuals'. I take it that it seeks to emphasise his generosity. The first page shows the position of those people with an actual income of $67 a week. One of the 3 cases that is shown is a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children. He will receive a deduction, but the significant thing is that the same document shows that this person on $67 a week actual income with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children is still paying $4 a week into the Government coffers. Who would argue when I put forward the proposition that such an individual with those responsibilities should be paying nothing a week in taxation? The next page shows the case of a man on $67 a week with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children but with an additional expenditure of $500 a year which is shown in concessional deductions. That sum would not be for hospitalisation because most money spent in that way is paid back by hospital benefit funds, so it would be spent on things such as dentists, schooling and that type of thing. He is still paying $2.50 a week in tax. How can any government argue that a young man with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children going through the most expensive time of his life and having to pay another $500 unavoidable expenditure during the year because of misfortunes, should still be taxed at the rate of $2.50 a week? Obviously that is the sort of person who should be exempt completely.  His  time for paying tax is when the children are off his hands and when his responsibilities are not so great. These figures make it clear that the Budget is a rich man's budget. 
The increase in the dependant's allowance of $52 a year is also a measure which favours the rich. Why should the wife of a rich man be much more valuable to him in terms of tax concessions than the wife of a poor man?. The man who is paying 65c in the dollar in tax will be relieved of paying 52 multiplied by 65c. The man paying only 10c in the dollar in tax will be relieved of paying 52 multiplied by 10c. If a man has had a period of unemployment during the year and if in that year he does not pay any taxation, the relief that the Government is giving him in 52 multiplied by nothing, which is still nothing. Having shown that a minority of taxpayers - the rich ones - receive the majority of the money which the Budget hands out, let us examine the claim of the Treasurer about his income tax cuts. He said:  a  reduction in personal income tax will put more money directly into  the  hands of consumers. Their take-home pay and their capacity to spend will be enhanced. There will  be a real  lift to community and business psychology.  The Treasurer talks of the capacity to spend. He said nothing about the inclination to spend. On recent performance, those with above average incomes - remember that these are the people getting the lion's share of the tax handouts - will bank their tax cuts. I refer to the higher income earner. Where is the stimulation that the economy needs. Where will be those extra jobs needed to combat unemployment? In economic terms the Treasurer has chosen the worst possible means to stimulate the economy. 
A number of courses were open to him. He could have reduced the rates of sales tax, thereby reducing prices and making a significant assault on inflation. Honourable senators will remember that he did make one sales tax concession, that is, on works of art. If a person wants to buy a Rembrandt he will be relieved of paying sales tax on it, but if he wants to buy an exercise book he will have to pay sales tax on it. So the budding Rembrandts in the early stages of their development will be paying tax to learn their trade, as will any other cihld who wants to start learning any trade. It is most difficult to find why this concession was selected when such things as exercise books are still on sales tax lists. 
The Treasurer could and should have announced a major programme of Commonwealth financed capital works to build desperately needed schools and. hospitals. Such a programme would have been a direct assault on the high level of unemployment and, incidentally, a contribution to those neglected twins - health and education. He could have, given a much larger portion of his handouts to the . recipients of social services. He need then not have worried about the money being held .out of circulation. It is notorious that, under this Government the aged, the invalid and the unemployed must spend their pensions immediately. They can hardly afford to accumulate large bank accounts. The Treasurer did none of these things. He chose the most inefficient -means of stimulating a sick economy. He made his income, tax cuts with no control, over whether the . money would be spent. Why? The answer is stark and clear. Because he believed that a large income tax cut would be electorally popular. 
Before leaving the subject of unemployment let' me say several things about one of the other factors which has considerable bearing on the number- of. people out of work. That factor is immigration. Last year 132,000 migrants came .to Australia. This figure compared with an original target of about 170,000. The level &lt;of: migration was reduced during the year, 'due to the high rate of unemployment. It was reduced sensibly and with no complaint from me. Now, with no real prospect of a decrease in the record number of unemployed the Treasurer tells us that the number1 of migrants to be brought in this year will rise to 140,000. I want to make it clear that to increase the number of migrants coming to Australia at a time of high unemployment is economic lunacy. Worse, it condemns migrants, who come to Australia with high hopes of life in a new land, to languish for an indefinite period on the dole. I believe, and the Australian Labor Party believes, that the first responsibility of the Government is to Australia's citizens and to the migrants already arrived in Australia. Immigration at this time must not be increased. It should be significantly reduced. 
The latest available figures show that of those migrants eligible to enter the work force 11 per cent of arrivals during the previous 12 months were unemployed. Is this a fair go for these migrants? Is it a fair go for the Australians who jostle with them in ever longer job queues? The answer is that the Government is not interested in migrants as people. It has become mesmerised by the numbers game of migration. More is better says the Government. If it believes that the more migrants unemployed the better then let it say so. The 1972-73 immigration target provides the best possible evidence that the Government has totally abandoned the policy of full employment. It is replacing this policy with one of maintaining a significant and permanent pool of unemployed. If a disproportionate number of those in the pool are migrants, reasons the Government, so much the better. They are less able to be vocal and do not have the vote. The high unemployment amongst migrants in fact encourages them to vote in the only way open to them. They vote with their feet. At present rates, one in every four migrants arriving in Australia will leave Australia permanently. This trend can only increase if present Government policy is pursued. 
Let me now turn to the other area where the Treasurer was at his proudest. I refer to social services. The main provision was for the standard rate of pension to be increased by $1.75 to $20 a week. We welcome the rise. It is a move in the right direction - but it is not enough when compared to other things in Australia. The Government has retained the concept of pensions being arbitrarily fixed at the whim of the Government. In practice, this means bigger rises in election years and smaller rises at other times. Inevitably the pensioner under this system is the victim of inflation. His rises always lag behind price rises. The current high rate of inflation leaves most pensioners helpless. 
The Australian Labor Party is pledged to tie social security payments to average weekly earnings. This allows pensioners automatically to receive increases either as productivity increases, as other factors increase - general prosperity - or as inflation occurs. The ALP would fix pensions at 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings which, at the present rate, would be $24.50 a week. Of course, as I have already explained the figure would be adjusted automatically. There is a hint in the Budget that at long last the government may be steeling itself to think about the unthinkable. I refer to a national superannuation scheme. There was also the promise to abolish the means test within 3 years. The Australian Labor Party has been campaigning since 1954 for the abolition of the means test. Until less than 6 weeks ago the Liberal Party was opposed to the abolition of the means test. 
The Government now proposes, and I quote: 
To appoint a committee of inquiry to examine and report on these matters and on how this proposal may be responsibly financed with particular reference to national superannuation. 
After 23 years and a history going back to 1948  -  at one stage,  Mr Menzies  resigned from a Ministry because of this subject - the Government has set up a committee to inquire into it. Thus the promise to abolish the means test is to rest on the report of an as yet unnamed, memberless and bud.getless committee. It is well to remember that the Australian Labor Party has moved in Parliament on no fewer than 5 separate occasions for the establishment of a committee to inquire into a national superannuation scheme. On every occasion the Government defeated the move. Is its sudden conversion the product of sincerity or panic? 
What impact will the Budget make on poverty? The increase in pensions and the retapering of the means test may for a few dizzy months push some people temporarily above the poverty line. Just as surely, inflation will inexorably drag them back under that line. What of the people on unemployment benefit? These are the growing band of luckless poor deprived of the chance to earn a livelihood by  Mr Snedden's  first Budget. Their base rate of benefit - the dole - stays fixed at $17 a week. Budget expenditure on this item is to increase from $44.7m last year to $57.6m this year which strongly implies that the Department of Social Services believes that hard-core unemployment will persist at its present record level. 
The Government offers no plan to deal with poverty. It is accepted by the Government as a normal part of our society, just as the new permanent pool of unemployed is now to be accepted. Where is the assistance for large families on low incomes? Child endowment remains unaltered and therefore stands further eroded by inflation. Another measure which deserves comment is the liberalisation of gift duty which is another handout to the rich. One most welcome measure is the deductibility of expenditure by a taxpayer on his own education. This measure is long overdue - 23 years overdue - and the high importance that the Treasurer claims he attaches to this matter is hardly commensurate with the speed with which the measure has been introduced. 
The levying of excise on liquefied petroleum or other gas used to propel road vehicles is a retrograde step and shows that the Government pays no more than the most hypocritical lip service to the problems of air pollution. The Ministers of the Environment in both South Australia and New South Wales have already protested about the imposition of this excise. It falls as a bitter blow on those enterprises which, in the interests of reducing exhaust pollution from their vehicles, have fitted them to burn liquid petroleum gas. I understand that a joint approach is to be made by certain State Ministers for the Federal Government to remove this excise and I trust the Minister will reconsider this matter. I urge him to do so. 
The Government proposes to increase expenditure on defence from $1,21 7m last year to $ 1,323m this year. Included in that figure is the first instalment of $355m on 3 destroyers known as DDLs. If the past performance of this Government is any guide, orders for expensive and flashy defence hardware, placed immediately prior to an election, can lead to an extended financial hangover which persists long after the electoral purpose of the orders has been completed. There is reason to believe that the initials DDL may soon become as notorious as the designation Fill. 
The greatest fault of the Budget is inherent in the fact that it is an instrument of political expedience. Expedience is concerned with short term measures and the short term in this case is the 3-month period - less, I hope - between now and the Federal election. There is no long term planning in this Budget. People have a right to expect more of a Treasurer than ad hockery and handouts. Planning is required to solve present crises and avoid future ones. 
Where in this Budget is the long term plan to control inflation? The Reserve Bank believes that revaluation of the Australian dollar is necessary, but where is there a word of this, either for or against? The inflow of overseas capital continues unabated, and where is there word of government controls? Where is there any indication of any attempt to regulate prices? This Government has always believed in controls on wages, but even in this period of galloping inflation it refuses to admit that effective control of inflation requires some control over prices. The Treasurer's view of inflation is simple - it is easy to understand; in fact it is simplistic. It is: Pressures for more frequent and everlarger increases in money wages remain. While they do the evils of inflation will persist'. There is no prescription here for a cure, only the implication that what is needed is an eternal wage freeze. Do that, according to the Treasurer, and inflation falls into place. Clearly a Treasurer with such an unreal view of inflation is unfit to manage our complex economy. 
One great problem that the Budget leaves completely untouched is the needs of Australia's cities and the commensurate need for decentralisation. This, of all problems, requires long term planning. As the countryside is steadily depopulated and the cities swell to choking point, the present Government is content to sit idly by, disclaiming responsibility. Yet only massive intervention on a scale that can be financed and directed by the Commonwealth will halt the present trend and arrest the deterioration of city environments and the worsening quality of life for their inhabitants. Regional development and the setting up of large, viable regional centres in the countryside, which must be the cornerstone of any realistic decentralisation policy, will also require Commonwealth assistance. This Budget says not one word about these matters. By its silence it delays an attack on these great problems for at least 6 months and perhaps a year. The cry has always been that we could not afford decentralisation. To be realistic, now we cannot afford not to have decentralisation. Surely no-one wants to pass on to those who follow us the type of life that has to be lived in cities such as Tokyo and New York. There is one thing that this generation can do more than any other - and that is to certainly cure some of these evils in the interests of the people who will follow us. 
Where are the plans to control foreign investment and the takeover of Australian assets and companies? The Treasurer is apparently happy to 'Sell off a bit of the farm, year by year' as  Sir John  McEwen described the process. One can only wonder whether the Treasurer realises how much of the farm actually remains in our own hands for us to be able to sell. Where are the plans for a comprehensive scheme of rural reconstruction, with generous retraining schemes where necessary to end once and for all the debt-ridden, handtomouth existence which is the miserable lot of too many of our primary producers? The Australian Country Party tradition of ad hoc handouts, indiscriminate subsidies and hurried relief operations persists in this Budget and one looks in vain for considered planning and modern rural management policies. 
Where is the review of health insurance in this Budget? With adherence by doctors to the common fee continually declining and with some of the large health funds accumulating reserves against the wish of the Government and beyond the control of their contributors, where are the proposals for a new and equitable health scheme that will bring medical and hospital treatment to the ordinary citizen at a reasonable cost? The Budget is silent. Fear of illness will still continue to haunt the average wage-earner. The Government parties have long posed as the guardians of stability and responsibility in economic management. Last year the Treasurer predicted an overall growth rate for the economy of 5 per cent; the result was an appallingly low 3 per cent. This year the Treasurer has again predicted  a growth rate of 5 per cent, but there seems no guarantee that this year the performance will be closer to the promise than it was last year. 
One of the quaintest and cleverest, but at the same time disturbingly accurate, descriptions of the Budget was 'a preelection fireworks display - but with live ammunition'. Let us hope it does not blow up in our faces. Nothing in this Budget suggests that cost inflation will cool down. Prices totally unrelated to capital cost increases will keep rising. Rent and land, for instance - 2 major costs to the Treasurer's 'typical suburban family man' - will continue to rise unchecked. The economy's serious inflationary psychology will not disappear overnight - if at all - by waving a magic wand of false tax deductions. The Government cry of 'taxes down, pensions up, and particular help to the family man' is deliberate political deceit and economic dishonesty. 
Earlier I said that there were a couple of areas of immediate gain to depressed sectors of our population in this Budget. I said that at the same time there were many crucial gaps in the Budget which pose serious questions. Let me ask them now. Where is there any review of the value of the Australian dollar or an indication of how exchange rates could be used as an instrument of economic policy? Where are the visible, workable stimuli to productivity? Where is there worthwhile policy on the ownership of national resources and their associated industries? What is the Government planning as a way to mop up our dangerously excessive foreign reserves? Where is there any indication of a new philosophy and approach to social welfare? Where is there any suggestion that the Government ever appreciates the need for a review of Federal-State financial relations? Where is the attack on rampant land prices? 
I think that the people of Australia should beware of Treasurers so ostentatiously bearing gifts immediately prior to an election. They would be wise to ponder whether there was any deeper significance in the phrases which concluded the Budget Speech in which the Treasurer said: 
Of course any Budget can only be framed on the basis of the Government's best judgment  at  that time. What the future holds can always be only dimly seen. We shall review economic trends  as the year goes on to  eusure  that the economy moves properly towards its sustainable growth path. 
Later he went on to say: 
I think it right to inject this cautionary note. But tonight I shall not dwell on it further. 
In other words, enjoy the Treasurer's gifts today for who knows what the Liberal Government might do tomorrow - that is, after the election. Certainly the Treasurer did not want to dwell on it on Budget night. What I suggest is that many Australians might dwell on it before election night. Their conclusion, I am sure, will be that it is time to dismiss the stop-go Treasurer and that it is time to bring purpose and planning into the management of the Australian economy. In other words, it is time to elect a Labor government. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. How many persons employed by the nonmetropolitan unemployment relief scheme are Aborigines? Does the scheme make any special provision for the relief of unemployed amongst Aborigines? 
 The Australian Labor Party does not resist this motion. Of course, it must be clear that this applies only to tonight because of the way that the business paper has fallen. We are again affected by this Canberra 'flu that is going around. Some of the motions are in the names of honourable senators who are sick. In the case of one motion, we are not ready to go ahead with it because we expect to receive new information. So it seems to us to be the sensible thing to do without prejudice to further nights of private member's business. The Opposition has no objection to this course being followed tonight. 
I second the motion on behalf of the Australian Labor Party and wholeheartedly endorse the message that the Government has sent to  Her  Majesty the Queen. It is interesting to note that this young man has followed in the footsteps of his father in fulfilling a diplomatic post in Nigeria, later as commercial secretary for his country in Tokyo, and then, on what might be termed the social level as  Senator Drake-Brockman  pointed out, as representative of  Her  Majesty at Fiji. We, of course, wish to be associated with the message of condolence to  Her  Majesty. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories: Has any approach been made by Japan to set up a consulate in Papua New Guinea? If so, has any reply been made to  this approach? If so, what was the nature of any such reply? Further, has the approach been referred to the Administrator's Executive Council? 
 I ask the Minister for Air: Is the Government considering buying the 23 Phantom aircraft remaining out of the original 24 on lease from the United States of America? What sale price has been offered to Australia for the purchase of these aircraft? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Treasurer a question. I refer to the fact that the latest statistical bulletin on the labour force released by the Bureau of Census and Statistics omits a breakdown of migrant unemployment by year of arrival in Australia. Was this information, which appeared in the previous bulletin, meant to be included? Does the blacking out of certain words on the front page of the bulletin relating to this breakdown indicate that the decision to omit these figures was a last minute decision made as a result of outside directions? What was the reason for the omission from the bulletin of the breakdown of migrant unemployment? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration seen reports of the court case involving  Mr Mirek  Mynar of Bankstown, New South Wales? Did the police prosecutor in the case oppose bail on the ground that 'there is a matter of murder against him in Czechoslovakia in 1959'? Can the Minister assure the Senate that screening procedures will be tightened so as to ensure that people with serious criminal records are not permitted to migrate to Australia? Further, will he investigate the case of  Mr Mynar  to see whether it reveals any defects in screening procedures? 
I had a discussion with the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  yesterday and this morning. This was one matter that we looked at. But, for various reasons, it was suggested that it should remain on the notice paper. There were two or three matters which, on behalf of my Party, I said ought to remain on the notice paper. This was one of them. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That Genera] Business, order of the day No. 10, be discharged from the notice paper. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Minister propose to follow a previous precedent, in filling the vacancy on the Australian Broadcasting Commission caused by the death of Brigadier Masel, and have the replacement appointed for the balance of Brigadier Masel's term, and when does the Minister expect to announce the name of the replacement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 15 Italian employees in the migration section of the Australian Embassy in Rome have been dismissed; if so, what was the reason for dismissal in each case and what was the length of service of each of those employees. 
Has the Government entered into any negotiations with Italian trade unions concerning these dismissals; if so, what were the results of the negotiations. 
In addressing a question to the Acting Leader of the Government I refer to the use of a BACIII aircraft of the VIP fleet to convey the Minister for External Territories to the Cocos Islands. Are only 3 journalists accompanying the Minister? Were requests from the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Associated Press news service to send representatives on the flight refused? How many of the 26 seats on the BAC-111 will be unoccupied on this trip? 
I ask the Minister for Works whether he is aware that the system for counting unemployed in Canada is vastly different from that used in Australia, and that if Australia adopted the Canadian system the figures would be very much higher. In the name of fairness and accuracy will the Minister indicate this in reply to questions on comparative unemployment figures? 
 The Senate is discussing a proposed change to our sessional orders which are laid down early in the session to govern the hours that we sit. The Acting Leader of the Government  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  has moved a motion to change the hours of sitting. I would suggest to him that if his motion is carried he might be well advised to make some slight alterations to the times proposed, otherwise there will be confusion. It is proposed that we shall meet at 10 a.m. one day and 10.30 a.m. another day. We will not gain much by doing this but there will be confusion, especially when we remember that a tremendous amount of work is now being done by standing committees and other committees. I say to him advisedly that it might be wise to give consideration to that point. 
The Opposition has proposed an amendment in the terms read out by  Senator Gair  suggesting that a decision on extended sitting hours be postponed until after the date of the election has been announced. Generally speaking we have about 7 or 8 weeks notice of an election and that period allows some ambit into which we would be able to fit the business that we are required to deal with. On the last occasion that extended hours were proposed, as was mentioned by  Senator Drake-Brockman  when introducing this motion today, during the debate on the motion I pointed out that there was not a lot of business on the paper and that even that day we had assisted the Government by allowing much material to be incorporated in Hansard and by not pressing for questions on notice to be read out. While I was speaking  Senator Drake-Brockman  interjected and said: 'Sure, let us take this away for a week.' I think that was a sensible suggestion. With great respect to the honourable senator, I do not think that impinged on our commitments at the end of the session. 
We are not masters of our own destiny. We must wait for business to come from what is euphemistically called 'another place'. Therefore there is not much that we can do about business to be dealt with. I have no doubt that we will have to sit additional hours and perhaps even additional days before this session is ended - I think this is a high possibility - but I think it is premature to extend the hours at this stage. At the moment the Government has one Bill on the business sheet. Because I am in charge of that Bill on the Opposition side I know that it will take about  5  minutes to deal with it from our side. It has already been through the Senate and has gone backwards and forwards between this and the other place. We have debated it half a dozen times. With all my faults, one thing I do not like doing is repeating things over and over. On the front of the business sheet there are  4  other items -  3  items standing in the name of  Senator Murphy  and one in the name of  Senator Byrne. Senator Byrne  knows that we intend to support him, and the other  3  matters are for references to a committee. Obviously these are matters that do not need to be canvassed up hill and down dale in such a way that we would take away the work that the committees are required to do. 
On occasions we have allowed matters of this kind to be referred straight to a committee. If we agree that a matter should go to a committee then we should allow the committee to do the work. I suggest that before we rise tonight, if we wanted to, we could clear the decks of all the business now standing on the Senate notice paper. We are in a peculiar position. It reminds me of a factory which takes on a lot of extra hands although it does not have orders for the goods that it will produce. 
This is the situation in which we find ourselves. We could clean up our business sheet tonight and tomorrow we could have nothing to do. If we look at the notice paper for the House of Representatives and analyse it, as I have done, we will find that about 20 items are listed. That might be a bit frightening at first. However, if we glance at the Bills listed we will find that they can be dealt with in four or five groups. For instance, one of them, the Soft wood Forestry Agreements Bill, will take about 3 minutes when it comes back here because we have discussed it and we know what we intend to do about it. It will be a better piece of legislation when it leaves here and everybody has finally agreed on it. There are other Bills such as those relating to States grants. They are the normal types of Bills that come forward every year. There is no real debate about these things. We certainly will not cut off grants to the States. Nobody would do that although they are the general types of Bills on which one can raise various issues. There again, there is nothing very frightening about them. Other Bills deal with such matters as nitrogenous fertiliser, home savings grants, apples and pears, and estate duty assessment. None of those are new Bills. They are merely amending Bills which are designed to increase the amounts that we have become accustomed to granting over the years. They have been introduced to catch up with inflation - a matter of updating - so there is nothing very radical about them. 
If we had those Bills here on our plate tonight they could be disposed of very quickly. I say to those people who want to vote in favour of the motion that I think it will be necessary to pass it in due course but I believe it is being proposed just that much too early. Again I understand the apprehension because one likes to be ready. One likes to have one's bat ready when the ball is bowled. I appreciate that. But the Government proposes to create this situation into which we are to put ourselves. As  Senator Murphy  said this afternoon, it is the Peter Principle and we will have to fill that amount of time. Actually I think it was Parkinson's Law. I think I have the titles of my books wrong. The other one was about promoting people to the point of their own inefficiency. 
I think that this motion is premature. If the Government does not want to accept the Opposition's amendment, which is only fixing a time, it ought to withdraw its motion or to hold it on the stocks until some time next week when we will know what the situation is. With a little bit of effort we could have our plate cleared by tomorrow. T think we could get it cleared tonight. Whatever is on our plate here, the special Bill which is coming in to deal with the decision of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory the other day will have to go through. I suggest it would be wise not to impose this proposal on honourable senators. Ringing the. bells would mean that we would have to bring honourable senators from party meetings and committee meetings to sit here and wait for work to be done. I think that the sensible thing to do is to let this matter stay on the stocks until next week. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister of Singapore disclosed that certain pro-Communist students were being sent to Australia for tertiary education; if so, what notice is given to the Australian Government that a student in the above category is to come to Australia and how many such students have either been in, or are at present in Australia? 

 Senator WRIGHT- -The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
In a television interview screened in Australia on 6th July, Prime Minister Lee referred to his government's policy of sending communist students abroad for overseas studies, saying inter alia, 'the communists whom we have dispersed to universities, many of them on scholarships to universities in Canada, Australia and even New Zealand, have come back and they have become fairly middle-class and comfortable.' The Singapore Government acquainted the Australian Government, in August last year, with the emergence of its policy of rehabilitating former communists through overseas study. This was conveyed to the Australian Government in connection with a special request to accept the first such person who it was proposed should come to Australia. That student was subsequently admitted to Australia, on a scholarship granted by the Singapore Government, his status in Australia being that of a private student. The Singapore Government has not subsequently sought entry to Australia for any further such people. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What conditions apply to the operation  of  privately operated recorded information telephone services and what persons or organisations in each State, are currently authorised to operate these services. 
What are the financial arrangements involved in the operation  of  the service referred to in (1). 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following conditions apply to privately operated recorded information services. 
No recorded information service is approved unless it is operated with suitable equipment through an exchange that can cope with the expected traffic without degrading service to other subscribers. 
Purchase and installation of the equipment required at the applicant's premises shall be arranged by the applicant. The applicant's apparatus must be covered by a permit issued by the Department and shall consist of a main answering machine and  a  standby answering machine. 
The main answering machine shall be of  a  heavy, duty type suitable for continuous operation, whilst the standby answering machine may be a light duty type suitable for intermittent use. 
If the machines are to be installed in premises which are not continually staffed, equipment must be provided by the applicant which will automatically switch in the standby machine when  a  fault occurs on the main machine. A visual signal should be provided with the automatic changeover. If the premises are staffed continually, the automatic changeover equipment will not be required but an audible alarm will have to be fitted to signal breakdowns. 
Message length shall have a maximum duration of 3 minutes with time-out at about 4ยฝ minutes. However, the Department reserves the right to insist that the duration of the message be reduced if congestion is being caused and the provision of additional facilities is impracticable.  (0  The recording of messages shall be arranged by the applicant. 
The message should clearly identify, the organisation running the service. 
The message content must, in the Post Office view, be ethical and unobjectionable to the public. 
Any advertising content must not, in the Post Office view, offend against public morals or the normally accepted advertising ethics. 
The message must provide the information set out in the title of the service. 
The Post Office must approve of the title. 
Once established, the service is to be maintained satisfactorily and a reasonable transmission level is to be provided at all times. The applicant should lest call the service at least twice daily. 
Exclusive rights to operate any type  of  service will not be given. 
To be advertised on the special Recorded Information Service page of the telephone directory, the service must use a minimum of 3 exchange lines or inlets connected  to  a heavy duty machine. 
<para pgwide="yes">The following are details of privately operated recorded information services, as distinct from telephone answering services of which there are many hundreds in operation throughout the Commonwealth. 
Privately operated recorded information services with heavy calling rales such as News and TAB Racing Service are provided on a joint basis with the subscriber providing and operating the pre-recorded message repeater and the Department providing amplification and distributing facilities for up to 200 inlets at a convenient exchange. For these facilities, the subscriber pays an annual rental of $500. On the lower calling rate services, each exchange line terminates on its own individual telephone answering machine and normal exchange line rentals apply. Charges for calls made to the recorded information services are recorded on the calling subscribers telephone meter and accrue to the Post Office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many prosecutions have been launched  in  each of the last 5 years against aliens under the Aliens Act for alleged failure to register as aliens, and how many of these prosecutions were successful. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer  to  the honourable senator's question: 
Aliens do not fail to register. The basic registration mainly takes place at the time of visa issue and is completed at point of entry. To supplement this basic registration, aliens over 16 years of age permanently living in Australia have to notify their current addresses in September each year. No prosecutions for failure to notify have been launched since the 1966 annual notification. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: In view of the announcement this morning that China is to buy $25m worth of wheat from the United States of America, will the Minister say whether any approach was made to Australia to supply this wheat? 
I wish to ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health a question regarding the current concern over the high mercury levels found in shark caught off the southern coast of Australia. Has any study been made of the source of the mercury content in these sharks? I am informed that such  a  study is well within known technology. If not, will the Minister take urgent steps to trace the source of that mercury with  a  view to invoking the principle supported by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, that the polluter must pay? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Yesterday I asked him a question about the number of journalists accompanying the Minister for External Territories to the CocosIslands, and how many of the 26 seats would be vacant. In his answer the Minister for Air did not provide this information.I now ask how many of the seats will be vacant on this trip? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Society for Medical Research alleged that, because of lack of funds, at least 20 top medical research scientists have been forced to leave Australia during the last 3 years. 
Does the Minister accept the Society's contention that 'the real figure for grants handed out through the National Health and Medical Research Council is $2.25m 
Has the Government any plans to increase funds for medical research and halt the exodus of Australia's leading medical scientists. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Acting Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have seen newspaper reports to this effect 
For the year ending 31st December 1972 the Commonwealth has allocated $2. 7m in grants from the Medical Research Endowment Fund, on recommendations by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The allocation of funds available for medical research under the Medical Research Endowment Act are kept under regular review by the Government. Funds available under the Act for medical research have increased from $340,000 in 1956 to $2.7m in 1972 and the Government has recently announced a total grant of $13. 5m for the next biennium, commencing on 1st January 1973. This represents a $6.5m increase over the amount granted for medical research in the current triennium. In addition, the Government recently made grants of $250,000 to the National Heart Foundation and $100,000 to the Australian Cancer Society for medical research. 
The development and maintenance of a stable framework for the support and advancement of the national medical research effort will continue to be a major objective of the Government. Concerning the departure of medical scientists from Australia, there is evidence that most leave to study for higher degrees or to work in specialised research areas where training facilities are not available to them in Australia. Enquiries have shown that the great majority return with valuable experience of benefit to this country. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: In view of the trouble that the German Government has had with Croatian terrorists, what contact has the Attorney-General had with the German Government to obtain information about the operations of these terrorists? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not intend to speak for long on this motion because I do not think it is necessary to do so. Much of what has been said already today has been irrelevant.  Senator Greenwood  dealt for some time with the form of inquiry that is suggested in the motion and  Senator McManus  also adverted to this. They suggested that a standing committee of the Senate was an inappropriate body to which to refer this matter. I point out to the honourable senators that this motion was put on the notice paper long before the bombings took place last weekend. It was put on the notice paper because for 10 years terrorism has been going on among a section of migrant people in Australia. I was interested in the history read to us by  Senator McManus.  Undoubtedly this gave some of the base of the problems with which we have to grapple, but we do not achieve much by looking at history. 
I agree with  Senator McManus'  opening and closing remarks, but I do not see how they can identify the problem. In my view the Government has, wittingly or unwittingly, been soft on this issue. I repeat  Senator McManus'  statement that terrorism has to be stamped out in whatever section of the Australian community it exists. However, I do not want to digress and speak of all sorts of other situations because we have a specific situation before us. It is one in which we have been told by an ambassador in Australia that the present situation is threatening diplomatic relations between his country and ours and that there is a possibility that diplomatic relations could be severed. I am glad that at long last the laughter which was coming from the Liberal and Country Party benches in the early stages of this debate has now subsided. The interjections did not worry me so much but I was concerned about the giggling and laughter because, frankly, I cannot see anything humorous in the situation. 
I cannot understand the point of the honourable senator's implication, I hope that this matter will be taken seriously by honourable senators opposite. Whatever disagreements we have in this place, we are faced with a situation now which should be taken right out of the pre-election jitters which some people have and right out of the issue whether one side or other of the Yugoslav community is right. I do not want to deal wilh the implications of this situation, but if honourable members consider what is happening in Europe they will surely realise, without my going into the subject, the implications of action of this kind. It would be a tragedy if that part of Europe started to distrust the Western world, including Australia, having in mind what is happening with Russia and other countries in that part of the world.  Senator Murphy  put this motion on the notice paper before these bombings took place. We have now said that we agree with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who I believe said that he was not averse to having a royal commission or was in favour of having one. We agree with that suggestion.  Senator Greenwood  does not say whether he agrees with it. However, in some respects I rind it difficult to go along with the Government. I. wish that I could agree with it because we do not want to see divisions on matters of this kind. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is now asking for further material after these things have been going on for 10 years. One Yugoslav has suffered 4 separate attempts on his life. 
The honourable senator seems to be very interested in names. 
1 shall tell the honourable senator, if he thinks that for some reason I am holding something back. I do not have the hospital report of this man, or anything of that kind, but I am quoting from a newspaper reports referring to a  Mr Marjan  Jurjevic. 
That docs not worry me very much because 1 have not a great deal of respect for your behaviour on this issue. We now have a situation in which there has been a history of bomb outrages and in which the Yugoslav Government has accused both  Senator Greenwood  and the Government of not being serious about this. 1 ask  Senator Greenwood  in all seriousness to consider some of the replies that he has given on this subject. I appreciate that on an election eve he might want to score in this regard for purposes of the election and I forgive him for that, but I repeat that this issue will endure past the election and is far more important to Australia than his getting votes from it. I have been in this place long enough to know that many honourable senators act in this way, but 1 do not think that an approach of this kind convinces anyone. A few days ago  Senator O'Byrne  referred to a question asked a day earlier and to  Senator Greenwood's  remark that he had not been aware of the intention of the police under his authority to carry out raids.  Senator O'Byrne  asked the Attorney-General: 
Will he make a full explanation so that the impression will not be gained that he is not aware of the activities or plans of the Commonwealth Police under his charge. 
In a long reply  Senator Greenwood  said: 
The point I made yesterday was in simple response to the question whether I was aware of the fact that the searches were taking place. 1 was not aware that the searches were taking place. 
He went on to explain that this was not unusual and that not everything is reported to him. This answer could have been regarded by sensitive people as a brush off. A little later  Senator Hannan  asked a most provocative question which obviously was a Dorothy Dixer. He might remember that I was sitting at the table and that  1  objected to his remarks about ambassadors, as a result of which I was heckled by honourable senators opposite. There is a very clear instruction on this, that we do not speak in a derogatory way about representatives of other countries with whom we have diplomatic relations. Surely no one would argue that over a long period this is a very wise course to follow. There are other restrictions in relation to remarks about the Governor-General, the Queen and others. But even after this and after a couple of other remarks from  Senator Hannan  I did not object because  1  thought it would upset him. I ask honourable senators to note the tone of  Senator Hannan's  question when dealing with a very delicate situation. He asked: 
Is the Attorney-General aware of the developing feelings of frustration and resentment in vast sections of the Croatian community at the unjust allegations being made against that community by representatives of the Yugoslav Embassy and other persons of dubious antecedents. . . . 
This was clearly out of order and clearly offensive when imported into a subject such as this. What marks does the honourable senator hope to score when he opens up a question on that sort of level?  Senator Greenwood  then paid much more attention in answering this question which I suggest was a Dorothy Dixer. I quote one small part of it in which he said: 
I have an accumulating body of evidence which is giving me the gravest concern. . . . 
To be fair to him, he went on to say that there were agents provocateurs. Honourable senators will recall the answer, which I do not propose to quote. I refer now to a newspaper report of an incident involving  Mr McMahon  on his way home from a game of squash in 1968. The newspaper report stated. 
On his way home from a game of squash yesterday, . . .  Mr McMahon  found the quiet of his suburb, Double Bay, a little disrupted. 
He had walked into a crowd of Croats demonstrating outside the Yugoslav consulate in Knox Street. 
More than 300 demonstrators battled with police during the demonstration. 
The Yugoslav flag was torn from the building and burned. 
Windows were smashed. 
The demonstrators were protesting against Communist domination of Croatia. 
I think they seem  a  good bunch,  Mr McMahon  said. 
They have a good cause. We have to keep the spirit of independence alive, you know. 
As we are getting some violent reactions from the Yugoslav Embassy today, all I am asking the Government to do is to look very carefully at the situation which has been created.  1  understand that  100  names have been handed to the Prime Minister or to the Attorney-General - I do not know which - with a request that they be investigated. The other day the AttorneyGeneral explained that you cannot just take names and say: 'Those people are guilty'. Nevertheless, surely this is some sort of base for an investigation. This comes from people with whom we have diplomatic exchanges; people whom we must lake, on face value, as being responsible people. What the Government is trying to do, and what the Attorney-General has been saying continually, is that there is no credible evidence regarding this matter in the hands of the police. Surely the normal method of police investigation is to take an hypothesis, examine it, chase up the evidence in relation to it in order either to prove or disprove the hypothesis. The whole of police work could never come to anything if one had to wait to have documented evidence put on one's desk. Surely the police start off with something. The police should examine the hypothesis to see whether it can be proved or disproved. If it can be proved, then action should be taken. If it can be disproved, that information should be made available to the public. 
What the Attorney-General is trying to say, in effect, is that the suspicion that Croatian extremists are responsible for the Sydney bombing outrage is an unreasonable suspicion. I do not think one can say that it is an unreasonable suspicion. It is a suspicion, going back over  10  years, culminating in this outrage in Sydney, ls that unreasonable? A proper investigation might prove that a prima facie approach to this question is wrong. The Attorney-General is saying: 'I have no evidence. There is no evidence of these accusations. We have no proof. What are you worrying about? People are being unreasonable. There is violence in some sections of the trade union movement'. Despite the attitude of the Government - or some supporters of the Government; let me be fair about it - to this matter, these people ought not to be looked on as patriots. They are terrorists; they are potential murderers; they are cowards. If they were patriots and if they went back to their own country or stood on other ground one might have some admiration for them. But they are not in their own country; they are in another country. They have brought their feuds into this country and they cannot be regarded as being anything else but potential murderers. They are not patriots at all. They are terrorists and people for whom nobody should have any respect. 
No. I would not hang anybody; I am against capital punishment. These incidents will continue because there is an air of toleration towards the activities of these people. That is quite clear. It is also quite clear -  Senator McManus  dwelt on this and I am grateful to him for doing so because some of the things he revealed shocked me - that the immigration screening, as I have been saying and suspecting for a long time, has been faulty. Thank heavens, even though it has taken 23 years and we are on the eve of an election, the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  has brought down some new methods regarding both education and screening of migrants, and I agree with those methods. My regret is that they were not introduced years ago. There are suspicions about other nationals. I do not agree with some newspaper reports which have said that there is suspicion of all other nationals. 1 do not believe that, because the Yugoslav community has established itself very well in Australia. I do not think there is any person here who does not have friends in the Yugoslav community. I know some members of the Yugoslav community very well. These incidents do not reflect on all members of the Yugoslav community; they reflect on some of them. It has an effect on people who get scared by bombings and this sort of thing. 
But the danger in this matter is that the credibility of the Australian Government is under challenge. This feeling will be felt not only internally in Australia; other countries will doubt our sincerity. They will doubt how fair dinkum we are about this matter. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to inaccuracies in some newspaper reports. I want to point out to him some of his own inaccuracies because he should be very accurate in dealing with this very tender situation. During the course of his remarks I think he said that the 'Four Corners' programme commented on an incident concerning a holiday camp and the Citizen Military Forces. What was stated on the programme was: 
Official explanations of these photos is that  a  group of Croats on a picnic wandered into the camp and asked to be photographed holding machine guns in front of armoured cars. 
That is not greatly different from what the Attorney-General said this morning. I do not think that the Attorney-General was misquoted very badly in that regard. But I find that the Attorney-General's explanation concerning this matter is very different from the explanation given by a previous Minister. I understood the Attorney-General this morning to say that the CMF were carrying out operations and that nearby there was a holiday camp of Croats, and the Croats suggested that their photographs should be taken. Naturally enough, the CMF boys said: 'What is wrong with this?' That is as far as it went. I do not think that I. have misquoted the Attorney-General in relation to that matter. 
Back in 1963, at about the time when this incident happened,  Senator Henty  was asked a question concerning it. I will just read his answer which indicates what the question was. There was no divergence in relation to the first 2 parts of the question. In relation to the third part of the question  Senator Henty  said: 
Investigation shows that the Officer Commanding one troop of a CMF armoured squadron was approached to hold a minor exercise early in January which would possibly present an opportunity for obtaining recruits from a " picnic group". The officer was not aware of the composition of the " picnic group ". The exercise took place and the officer subsequently gave those assembled an impromptu talk on the necessity for recruitment and maintenance of strength of the CMF and appealed to those present who were eligible to join the CMF. At no stage was the exercise designed to engage what later proved to be members of a Croatian group in a military manoeuvre. It was planned as a military display for the purpose of enhancing the prospects of recruitment to the CMF. 
I suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that this is a vastly different situation from the one which he explained to us this morning. My point about all this is that there is an air of disbelief, I would suggest, in the Croatian community and in the Australian community which will seep or burst out into the outside world. I have before me a statement which has been issued by the Yugoslav Ambassador, and I shall read it in order to indicate the seriousness of this whole matter. It states: 
The  Yugoslave  Ambassador  Mr  Uros  Vidovic today strongly criticised the Federal Government over its handling of the terrorist bombings in Sydney. 

 Mr Vidovic attacked the Attorney General,  Senator Greenwood  for statements he had made saying there was no evidence of the Ustashi organisation in Australia. 

 Mr Vidovic said he was astonished at  Senator Greenwood's  statement and had presented documentary evidence to the Government this morning which he said proved the existence of terrorist groups. 
The  Yugoslave  Ambassador was speaking at a Press conference after delivering a formal protest note to the Foreign Affairs Minister,  Mr Bowen. 

 Mr Vidovic said he was dissatisfied with the action taken so far by the Government. 
Asked why the police had been unable to catch any Ustasha terrorists he said there were some forces in Australia influencing the police who didn't want them caught. 
He hinted that diplomatic relations between Australia and Yugoslav might be severed if the terrorism was not stopped. 
I said that I would not speak for very long. I said that I would not be diverted onto the byways of this subject which is a very easy thing to do. We are confronted with a very important situation. This activity should be condemned. I am not too sure that the Government itself ought not to look very closely at this situation. I am not too sure that  Senator Greenwood  himself should not voluntarily step aside while further investigation is undertaken because of the attitudes which probably his Party has pushed him into taking. I think that he finds himself in a very unenviable situation today. The situation is Australia-wide and international. 
It goes beyond any individual or group of individuals or the Australian Government or Opposition or anyone else. 
Why could dramatic action such as we propose not be taken? After all, although we are asking for an inquiry, an inquiry should not be necessary. An inquiry is necessary because of the belief that the Government, to accept the expression used earlier today, has been running dead. These activities have been going on for 10 years and are becoming worse, not better. These activities are related to violence in other parts of the world. While I agree that an inquiry should not be necessary, to restore the faith of the Australian people and to clean up this bunch of terrorists and would-be murderers, the popular belief is that an inquiry, perhaps a royal commission, should be held. I agree now following the events in Sydney that a royal commission is probably the best way to deal with the matter. 
Some dramatic action from Government circles is required. If the Government even at this late state would admit that it has been bungling and would say that it will do something about this problem, notice will be served on these criminals that something will be done and that their activities would no longer be encouraged. Notice would be served on the Australian people that the present state of affairs would not be tolerated. Above all the world would be given notice that the government of Australia, irrespective of its political colour, did not intend its country any longer to be caught up in the violence and damage to property which are part of the feuds of the Old World, from whichever country those feuds emanate. Nothing short of a most dramatic move by the Australian Government will instil confidence in Australia and in the rest of the world in respect of these activities. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister consult with the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts in order to formulate standards for television advertising that would prohibit advertisements that display or promote defilement of the environment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons employed under the Non-Metropolitan Unemployment Relief Scheme are Aborigines. 
Does the Scheme provide any special provisions for the relief of unemployment amongst Aborigines. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Non-Metropolitan Unemployment Relief Scheme is administered by the State authorities. As far as my Department is aware statistics are not maintained on a continuing basis to show how many persons employed under the Scheme are Aborigines. However, in the course of a special check made by the Department with the State authorities at 30th June 1972, it was ascertained that at least 1,250 persons of known Aboriginal descent were employed under the Scheme at that date. 
No. The basis on which the Commonwealth Employment Service refers persons to the State and local government authorities for recruitment under the Non-Metropolitan Unemployment Relief Scheme is length of unemployment, suitability for the work in question and the degree of family responsibility. While no special provisions for the relief of unemployment among Aborigines are included in the Non-Metropolitan Unemployment Relief Scheme, special employment assistance for Aborigines in non-metropolitan areas is available through Commonwealth funds granted to the States under the States Grants (Aboriginal Adpancement) Act. 
At the end of June 1972 nearly 100 Aborigines were employed by State and local government authorities on these special work projects. Increased numbers of Aborigines are expected to be employed under this scheme as a result of the greatly increased grants to the States for Aboriginal advancement already announced for 1972-73. 
Let us be a little more reasonable about this matter. This is the first time in the 23 years that  Senator Wright  and I have been here that I can ever recall somebody asking to be allowed to peruse such a document. You,  Mr President,  take a very sensible attitude. You are trying to reach a compromise with either  Senator Wright,  Acting Leader of the Senate at the moment, or myself on the Labor side as the Acting Leader of the Opposition. You have asked us to look at this matter. However we have no special rights in this regard. If every honourable senator demands the same right that  Senator Wright  is now demanding, clearly we will get to an impossible situation. In all the years that we have been here there has been no such request when somebody has sought to table a document. After all, that course was taken only to save time. If  Senator Mulvihill  or anybody else seeks to table a document-- 
I am sorry, he asked for it to be incorporated in Hansard. I apologise for using the wrong term. If somebody refuses the request,  Senator Mulvihill  can simply read it. Are we not cutting off our nose to spite our face? Saving time was the idea behind asking for this letter to be incorporated in Hansard. Surely we know what we are talking about. We know the general situation. Let us be a little reasonable about this matter. Obviously the letter relates to the debate. Surely the document is not subversive. Why is this suddenly being done after all these years? I repeat that the request was made only to save time, to give greater accuracy and to try to assist the running of the Senate. Surely  Senator Wright  can let this document be incorporated. If he refuses, let him refuse in the first place and then  Senator Mulvihill  can read it. 
Opposition senators  -  Oh, no. 
I shall be brief. I have been amazed that after a 2-hour debate on the question of bombings in Australia the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  could rise in his place and not say one word about those bombings. He talked about all sort of things that had absolutely nothing to do with them. Yesterday 1 challenged him on the question of the Ustasha training with the Citizen Military Forces and I pointed out to him that he had said nothing at all.  His  story completely conflicted with that of the previous Minister. We heard not one word from him. One of them lied - the Attorney-General or the senator that we heard before him. The Attorney-General is not man enough to stand up in this place and say so. It is very clear that he is dodging the issue of bombings in Australia, even though this debate has gone on for 2 hours. He has that silly grin on his face again. How he can sit there and laugh when people are being blown up in Australia is beyond me. I think that he must be mentally affected. How can he do so when bombs are going off and people are being near killed?  Senator Douglas  McClelland this evening pointed out an incident of this which brought it home to us, yet the AttorneyGeneral sits there and laughs. 
I said to him yesterday as gently as I could, because I had some sympathy with the situation in which he finds himelf You ought to stand aside in this present situation so that this terrible thing can be cleaned up.' I say tonight that he should resign, and that if he will not resign the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should sack him because he is not doing his job by the Australian people. While bombs are being planted in Australia he sits there laughing and refusing to say one word about it. I have nothing more to say. I merely underline the fact that the AttorneyGeneral laughs and sneers and refuses to face up to a situation. All he can talk about is that some people come from Communist countries. Some of them did and- 
And you are a pack of lies, if you want to say that to me. All  Senator Hannan  worries about is that people have come from Communist countries. He has said nothing about the fact that some have come from Fascist countries. 
Of course. 
Do not wriggle off the point. The Attorney-General is not fit to hold office. If he had an ounce of manhood he would resign, and if the Prime Minister had an ounce of manhood he would sack him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Immigration, either itself or through the Committee on Overseas Qualifications, maintain a blacklist of colleges and universities in Britain and the United States of America which award sub-standard degrees; if so, will the Minister make that list public so that potential migrants will know where they stand in relation to the acceptance of their qualifications in Australia. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Neither the Department of Immigration nor the Committee on overseas Professional Qualifications maintains a 'blacklist' of colleges and universities in Britain and the United States of America which award sub-standard degrees. 
The decision as to whether a particular qualification gained overseas meets the standard required in Australia is a matter for decision by the appropriate authorities i.e. the respective statutory bodies and professional associations and, in the case of persons wishing to undertake postgraduate studies here, the Australian university or other tertiary institution concerned. 
To safeguard the interests of migrants with professional qualifications, the Department of Immigration encourages them to have their qualifications assessed by the appropriate Australian authority before committing themselves to migration. Advice and assistance is provided by the Department without charge to the inquirer. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Government now take action to adopt the proposals of the Australian Medical Association with regard to smoking and health, in view of the strong criticism by the Association of the Government's refusal to ban cigarette advertising, and take other steps to alert the community to the clear health danger inherent in smoking. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Acting Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As has been stated on previous occasions in reply to similar questions, the action which the Commonwealth can take in these areas is limited and major areas of responsibility lie within the jurisdiction of the individual Stale Governments. 
After a detailed review of the situation the Government has decided to implement a national health education programme and has sought uniform State and Commonwealth action requiring the inclusion of a health warning on cigarette packages. 
The Commonwealth will make amounts of up to $500,000 a year available for the next 3 years for a national health education programme against smoking, directed particularly towards young people. 
A National Warning Against Smoking Campaign was launched on 17th September 1972. This is an educational campaign which will use televiion, radio and other media to warn of the health hazards associated with smoking. In addition, it is proposed to distribute 2 booklets. One, entitled Why Don't Elephants Smoke', is directed towards children of primary school age; the other, which is a facts booklet, is directed towards adults and older children. 
I am informed that legislation requiring health warnings on cigarette packages will come into effect in Victoria and Western Australia on 1st January 1973, and it is hoped that similar legislation will come into effect in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory on the same date. Present indications are that legislation on this matter will be implemented in the other States during 1973. 
In addition, the Broadcasting and Television Act has been amended to require that all cigarette advertisements on radio and television be followed by a health warning. It is proposed that this requirement shall come into effect on 1st January 1973. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Post Office restrict the despatch of air mail from Australia to Tonga to only one flight per week, although5 scheduled flights a week from Fiji to Tonga are available. 
What is the reason for the imposition of the restriction. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Since 20th August 1972, airmail has been despatched to Tonga 3 times weekly, an appropriate frequency for the quantity of airmail posted in Australia to that destination. Formerly, the frequency of despatch was once weekly as timetable information available to the Australian Post Office indicated that only one schedule flight  a  week was available from Fiji to Tonga. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government received  a  request from the British Government asking that Australia accept, as migrants, some of the Asian persons whom the Government of Uganda proposes to expel. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The 
Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An informal request was received on 18th August. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Have 200,000 aliens failed to register with the Department of Immigration as they are required to do every September under the Aliens Act? Have any prosecutions been launched arising from their failure to register? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has any knowledge of u substantia] number of aliens failing to register in Australia. Does the AttorneyGeneral not think that this is hampering the police in the investigation of the recent bomb outrage? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What donations have been made to the Churchill Trust Fund since its formation by (a) the State Governmenls and (b) the Commonwealth Government. 
What is the present composition of the committee administering the fund and were any of the members nominated by the Commonwealth. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Education and Science has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Winston Churchill Memorial Trust is a completely autonomous institution having no formal ties with the Commonwealth Government or State Governments. However the information sought is readily accessible from the the various annual reports of the Trust and 1 am informed that these reports may be obtained from the Chief Executive Officer of the Trust at its National Headquarters located at 'Churchill House' in Canberra. 
The Commonwealth donated $220,000 to the nationwide appeal in 1965 and also contributed $10,000 towards collection and administrative expenses. Donations to the Trust fund are allowable deductions for income tax purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Have certain applicants for migration to Australia been rejected and in some cases has  a  significant factor in rejection been the religious or quasi-religious views of the applicant. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Not all applicants for migration are approved for entry to Australia. 
Applicants for migration to Australia are not required to state their religion and no provision is made in application forms for religious adherence to be recorded. Approved applicants for assisted passages from Britain and some other countries are given the opportunity to indicate their religion when movement arrangements are being made. It is made clear to them that they are not obliged to do so and that the information is required only to assist religious organisations in Australia to offer help to them after their arrivel. The information is not recorded statistically and no other use is made of it. 
Unassisted migrants are not asked any questions about their religion. ft follows that the religious views of applicants for migration are not  a  factor in determining their eligibility. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Postmaster-General's Department propose to transfer all mail sorting and delivery staff from Harbord Post Office to a new centralised depot located at Manly, New South Wales. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, what are the reasons for the proposed rearrangement and were consultations held with local residents and businessmen to determine their views on this matter. 
If the Postmaster-General's Department proceeds with the rearrangement, will Harbord Post Office be reduced in status to that of a nonofficial post office. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) It is not intended at this stage to change the arrangements at present operating at the Harbord Post Office. The accommodation position at Harbord is, however, reaching the stage when it could become necessary to obtain additional working space by transferring the postmen to Manly Post Office where adequate space will shortly be available. In those circumstances, it is intended to review the arrangements at Harbord early next year unless additional staff is required in the meantime. Any operational changes which may be found necessary will not reduce the grade or range of the postal services provided. This was explained to a meeting of the Harbord Chamber of Commerce early in July. 
The method of operating the Harbord Post Office, which would not change the grade or range of services provided, will be examined in the light of any operational changes which may be made. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Does the voluntary code on the advertising of cigarettes to which the Department of Health is a signatory prohibit the appearance in television advertising of any person under 25 years of age who is smoking? If so, can the Minister explain why the Department's own anti-smoking advertisement which was criticised in the Senate last week shows a young girl of 10 years with a cigarette in her mouth? 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health whether it is a fact that it costs taxpayers in excess of $40,000 to train each medical graduate in an Australian university. Does the Minister agree with the  President  of the General Practitioners Society that the public has no right to the services of general practitioners? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When will the Department of Education and Science report on research and development expenditures in Australia be completed, and is it intended to publish this report 
When will the section of the report on Commonwealth research expenditures be completed, and will the Minister make it immediately available to Parliament. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Education and Science has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
1 am making available a summary of the present status of Project Score (Survey and Comparisons of Research Expenditures) in reply to House of Representatives Question No. 5495. 
Collection of information from Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities on their research and development expenditure has been completed, lt remains to write a report. This is being prepared by my Department and will be made available to Parliament when it is published. Although at this stage analysis of the Commonwealth data is not complete. 1 am in a position to provide the following summary of results for that sector: 
Expenditure in 1968-69 on research and development performed by the Commonwealth's own agencies totalled approximately $l35m. The distribution of that expenditure between various broad fields of science was as follows - 
I ask the Minister  for Air whether Australia has entered into an as yet unannounced agreement with the Netherlands to finance a prototype development of the Northrop Corporation's P530 Cobra aircraft. If so, what sum of money has the Government committed to finance this project? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In which overseas cities does the Australian 
Broadcasting Commission maintain full-time representatives. 
In which of the cities where the local language is not English is the full-time representative proficient in the local language. 
Is any special allowance paid to full-time overseas representatives who are proficient in a language other than English. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
London. New York, Washington. Singapore. Kuala Lumpur. Djakarta, New Delhi, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Bangkok. 
None of the representatives is sufficiently proficient in the local language to qualify for payment ofa special allowance. 
No - see answer to (2) above. Provision is made in ABC Staff Regulations for an allowance to be paid where ABC officers meet the requirements similiar to those in the Commonwealth Public Service Board's Directives relating to Overseas Service. 
In addressing a question to the Minister for Health I add to your words,  Mr President,  and say to him: 'Welcome back'. I trust that in the next 3 weeks he will be as happy  z.s  he is at the present moment. I ask: Is it a fact that a United Nations scientific committee's report shows that there has been a significant increase in the level of radioactive iodine in milk in the southern hemisphere since the recent French nuclear tests? What programme does the Department of Health conduct to monitor the level of radio-iodine in Australian milk? 
To what extent has the radio-iodine level in Australian milk risen since the French nuclear tests? 
It is true, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said, that recently there have been newspaper reports on the dangers of fall-out of radioactive iodine, iodine 131, following nuclear testing. The document on which these news items are based is the 1972 report to the United Nations General Assembly of the Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, which has the rather extraordinary alphabetical name UNSCEAR. The report is a complex technical document and some of the published interpretations have not been entirely accurate. I am informed that iodine 131 does pose special problems as it becomes concentrated in the thyroid gland after ingestion by humans and, therefore, irradiates that gland especially. The intake is mostly through milk. The report notes the presence of radioactive iodine in milk in 14 countries and regions of the southern hemisphere, based on data supplied by these countries. Even the highest annual doses were well below that recorded in the northern hemisphere as far back as 1963. Australian figures for 1970 and 1971 are included in the Scientific Committee's report. However, these figures have already been published in detail in Australia in the reports of the National Radiation Advisory Committee which are freely available. The Advisory Committee has assessed the figure as presenting no hazard to the Australian population. It is incorrect to say that the United Nations report made any reference to the French nuclear tests of 1972. When 1972 figures become available they will be evaluated as to their potential health effect in the usual careful way. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. I refer to the tabling of certain documents relating to the acquisition of DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd. Will the Minister table all Department of Civil Aviation files relating in any way to the transaction with Jetair Australia Ltd, including all applications for exemptions, licences, operations and all material relating to the operations of the company and its relationship to the Government's 2-airline policy? Further, will the Auditor-General's files relating to the acquisition of DC3 aircraft for foreign aid purposes be tabled? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMy understanding is that there has been a tabling of documents in relation to this matter and indeed that  Senator Wright,  as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, made a statement in this place in relation to the tabling of those documents. As to the subsequent question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I will have to have that put on notice because, quite obviously, 1 cannot make any comment about it at this point. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has there been drafted a reply to the protest note from the Yugoslav Government concerning antiYugoslav terrorist activities in Australia? Has this reply now been sent? If so, what were its terms? If not, what are the reasons for delaying its dispatch? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to continue with the inquiry into income tax; if so, when does the Treasurer expect to be able to announce the names of the other members of the committee of inquiry to be chaired by  Mr Justice  Asprey. 

 Senator COTTON- The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 10th September 1972 the Treasurer announced the names of the members of the Committee of Inquiry into the taxation system. In addition to the  Chairman, Mr Justice  Asprey, the members of the Committee are: 

 Mr David Miles Bensuran Butt, M.A. (Cantab.), Professorial fellow in Economics in the Research School of Pacific Studies at the Australian National University. 

 Sir Peter Lloyd, M.A. (Oxon), formerly  Chairman  of Cadbury, Fry, Pascall Australia Ltd,and presently a member of the board of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, and the A.M.P. Society, 
Professor Ross Waite Parsons, B.A., LL.B. (Sydney) Professor of Law at Sydney University. 

 Mr Kenneth Wood, F.C.A., until recently a partner in the firm of Cooper Brothers, Chartered Accountants. 
Now that the Committee has been appointed it is expected that it will begin its investigations without delay. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the most recent issue of the statistical bulletin on the The Labor Force, released by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, contain a breakdown of migrant unemployment by year of arrival in Australia; if not, was this information meant to be included. 
Does the over-printing of certain words on the front page of the most recent issue of the Labour Force relating to the breakdown of figures referred to in (1) indicate that any decision to omit these figures was a last minute decision; if so, what was the reason for any omission of the figures. 

 Senator COTTON - The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable senator's question: 
No. See answer to (2). 
The figures published in the Labour Force bulletin are estimates based on a sample collection and are therefore subject to sampling variability. When the total numbers in a particular category are small it is consequently difficult to provide a meaningful breakdown into smaller groups. It is the Statistician's practice not to publish estimates from the labour force survey which are lessthan 4,000 because, as explained in the Labour Force bulletin, very small estimates are subject to such high relative standard errors as to detract seriously from their value for most reasonable uses. 
For February 1972 an attempt was made to provide as much information as possible about a number of separate groups of migrants (males, married women, all females and persons) according to country of birth and period of arrival in Australia, but because of the relatively small numbers of unemployed migrants only 20 of the 52 principal estimates provided for in the published table formats could be shown, the remainder being below the 4,000 limit referred to above. 
Between February and May there was a substantial fall in the level of unemployment. The May 1972 Labour Force bulletin contained separate particulars of the numbers of unemployed persons born in Australia and of those born outside Australia, which showed that the numbers of Australian-born had decreased by 18.5 per cent, and the numbers of overseas-born by 19.8 per cent. 
With a decrease in the total number of unemployed migrants the possibility of a meaningful breakdown into smaller groups was further reduced, and in fact only 13 of the 52 estimates referred to above were publishable, and a number of those were close to the 4,000 level. 
It was explained in the May bulletin that because of the introduction of a new sample the standard errors of changes from February to May 1972 would be greater than those usually associated with changes of corresponding magnitude and that care should be taken in placing significance on any changes in estimates between these 2 quarters. 
Therefore, in view of the circumstances that firstly, three-quarters of the estimates were too small to be published, and secondly, the remainder were generally so small that any changes which had occurred between February and May would very likely have been accorded a significance that would, on statistical grounds, have been unjustified, the Statistician decided that particulars for separate countries of birth and periods of arrival in Australia should not be included in the May 1972 Labour Force bulletin. 
In order to expedite the issue of the bulletin the textual matter had been prepared in advance, and when the foregoing decision was made the reference to the inclusion of estimates by year of arrival was crossed out on the printed copies in order not  to  delay the publication of the May statistics. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Have discussions taken place with the Hospital Benefits Association on the question of its investing in the fields of general insurance, land and housing finance, etc? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo. If the honourable senator is talking in contemporary terms,I am not aware of discussions taking place. But there is a code in relation to this matter and there are certain provisions in respect of any of these organisations. As the honourable senator would know, I think, they are obliged to keep funds which are involved in hospital or medical insurance separate from any other funds that they have. I think there was a Press article on this matter, to which I responded by inquiry through the Press in Melbourne yesterday. If a company is registered in Victoria - Ithink this was the reference made yesterday - under the State Companies Act it is subject to the controls exercised by virtue of section 24 of that Act. The Victorian Government refused the request of the executive committee of the Hospital Benefits Association to diversify its activities. The HBA did not approach the Commonwealth regarding this matter. However, as the proposal envisages the company branching into all purpose insurance, possibly the company would be subject to the provisions of the Insurance Act 1932-66, in addition to the relevant State legislation. 
Under the National Health Act the Commonwealth exercises the necessary controls over the administration of health insurance, particularly in relation to the accumulation and investment of fund reserves. In this regard the Commonwealth has power to ensure that any proposal by a registered health insurance fund of the nature put forward by HBA would be kept entirely separate, and that is the point I was making. The funds would have to be completely separate, as indeed was shown in the annual report which I recall was presented to this chamber during my absence. The report referred to the separate funds of the medical and hospital benefit funds. From memory I think the assets of the hospital benefit funds run to the order of about $126m. 
asked the Minister representing the 'Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has any approach been made by Japan to establish a consulate in the Territory of . Papua New Guinea; if  so,  has a reply been sent and what was the nature of the reply. . .... . . 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, was the approach referred to the Administrator's Executive Council. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
To date, no formal request has been made by the Japanese Government to establish a consulate in Papua New Guinea. Informal enquiries about the possibility of opening a Japanese Consulate in Port Moresby were made some time ago. 
As announced by the Papua New Guinea Chief Minister on 31st August 1972 it has been agreed between Australia and Papua New Guinea Ministers that all proposals for the establishment of consulates in Papua New Guinea would be referred to the Administrator's Executive Council for endorsement before being approved by the Australian Government. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Government has taken any interest in the happenings in the Philippines. If so. is it possible to make a statement to the Senate? In that statement will the Minister give any information on the position of  Senator  Benigno  Aquino who would have been the chief contender for the presidency when that election was held? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What steps has the Minister taken to obtain agreement among the States for the adoption throughout Australia of international road direction signs. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council in February 1972 endorsed in principle Part I of the Australian Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices prepared by the Australian Committee on Road Devices as a draft standard to revise the SAA Road Signs Code- AS CEI-1960. 
In preparing the Manual, the Committee considered the existing practice for road signs and signals in Australian States and Territories, the provisions of the 1968 United Nations Convention on Road Signs and Signals and decisions more recently made by the United States National Joint Committee on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. 
The draft standard (Document DR 72133) was issued for public comment by the Standards Association of Australia on 1 September 1972. After comments are considered by the Association the 
Manual will then be further considered by Council with a view to approving its useas a standard throughout Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Immigration provide, either directly or indirectly by grants to the Slates for the purpose, interpreters to provide a service for those migrants who are hospitalised; if not, will the Minister give urgent consideration to providing interpreters in major public hospitals as a contribution to the health and well-being, both physical and mental, of those migrants who are not yet proficient in English. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Immigration does not either directly or indirectly provide funds to the States for the employment of interpreters. However, the Department has its own interpreter service in each State office, which is available for use in emergency situations arising in the community. Furthermore, the Department is in the course of developing an emergency telephone interpreter service which will be introduced initially in the Sydney and Melbourne offices to provide a service to meet emergency needs in the community. 
The Department has recognised the special need for interpreters in hospitals and in particular psychiatric institutions, recognition largely arising out of departmental survey research. The special need has been discussed at meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Immigration. There has been growing recognition also of the need for interpreter services in the community generally, and to assess the actual nature of this need the Department in 1971 commenced an Australia-wide survey to enable an overall assessment to be made. The survey was directed at seeking information on both interpreting and translating needs from a selected representative sample of organisations and individuals who have dealings with migrants in the course of their day-to-day activity. The findings of the survey are at present under active consideration and areas identified by the survey as presenting special needs will receive close attention, and means will be sought to remedy the situation. 
Whilst the Department of Immigration has a responsibility for providing interpreter services to meet needs arising directly from its specific functions, we do not believe that interpreter services should be solely the responsibility of government, and it is significant to note the extent to which commerce and industry is already active in this regard. However, the Department accepts a special responsibility for interpreting needs in vital areas and the action being taken to establish an 'on call' telephone interpreter service, which will operate on a 24-hour basis, should contribute substantially in assisting many organisations including hospitals which may be faced with crisis situations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has every alien complied with the requirements of the Aliens Act 1947-1966 that he notify the Department of Immigration annually of his residential address and marital status. 
If the answer to (1) is in the negative, what was the reason for the failure to locate aliens who contravened the requirements of the Act. 
Will the Minister take action to ensure that the requirements of the Act are enforced. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is important to realise that all aliens entering Australia as settlers are registered under Aliens Act. The main process of basic registration takes place at time of visa issue overseas and is completed at point of entry. In that respect the Department has a comprehensive register of aliens. 
To supplement this basic register, aliens over 16 years of age are required to notify some particulars to the Department in September of each year, notably their current address. The response to the annual notification varies. For example 72 per cent of registered aliens notified in 1967, 67 per cent in 1968 and59.9 per cent in 1969. 
In 1971 the existing manual system which did not lend itself to follow-up action was replaced by a computer based system. Although some problems still remain to be overcome, this is proving reasonably satisfactory and addresses obtained at the 1971 notification and those that have been incorporated in the register as a result of subsequent information, covered some 80 per cent of registered aliens as at 30 June 1972. 
Legal difficulties were encountered in prosecutions and additionally there remained practical difficulties in the matter of locating those failing to notify addresses. These matters are receiving continuing consideration. 
When the results of the 1972 notification have been assessed an overall review of alien registration procedures will be undertaken with a view to introducing possible changes including if necessary the amendment of the Aliens Act 1947- 1966 to improve its effectiveness. 
Meanwhile the large amount of information available from the Aliens Register remains most valuable to the Department. 
In this question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs I refer again to the recent declaration of martial law in the Philippines and in particular to the detention of prominent journalists and politicians, including  Senator Benigno  Aquino, a leading candidate for the presidency. Does the Minister have information as to the manner in which these prominent people are being treated during their detention? Further, have any charges relating to criminal activities been laid against these detainees or is their detention simply designed to remove them indefinitely from the arena of active politics? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has  the  Minister seen a report of a court case involving  Mr Mirek  Mynar of Bankstown, New South Wales. 
Did the police prosecutor in the case oppose ball on the grounds that 'there is  a  matter of murder against him in Czechoslovakia in 1959'. 
Will the Minister take action to ensure that screening procedures are tightened so as to prevent persons with serious criminal records from entering Australia. 
Will the Minister investigate the case of  Mr Mynar  to ascertain if it reveals any defects in immigrant screening procedures. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have seen an account of these proceedings as reported in  a  Sydney newspaper. 
The caseis still before the Court and is therefore sub judice. In view of this it would not be proper for me to offer any comment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Was the original cost estimate for the purchase of 3 DDL destroyers too low by some $40m. 
What is the latest cost estimate forthe destroyers. 
What steps has the Government taken to ensure that this project is not subject to the same cost overruns which have so inflated the price of the F111 aircraft. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No, this is not the case. 
The estimated comprehensive project investment cost for 3 ships is $355m in 1972 prices. This includes $220m (in 1972 prices) for ship construction costs including dockyard overheads, to which are added allowances for design, dockyard improvements, support and training equipment, the establishment in Australia of manufacture and repair facilities, ammunition, ships' helicopters and spares. 
The Government is taking every available precaution to avoid cost overruns on the DDL project. In this regard, special management arrangements are being made for the project by the Departments of the Navy and Defence in association with management consultants. Provision has been made for Cabinet to review the project at important milestones. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Have 200,000 aliens failed to register with the Department of Immigration, as they are required by the Aliens Act to do every September; if so, have any prosecutions been launched against aliens for failing to register. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. All aliens entering Australia are registered and the number as at 30th June 1972 was 536,000. Each year they are required to notify their current addresses. For details of compliance with this requirement and the reasons why prosecutions have not been launched see the answer to Question No. 2441 (Hansard, 17th October 1972.). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has Professor J. R. Wilson, of the University of Sydney, appointed any assistants to help him prepare a report on the cost benefit analysis of immigration commissioned by the Department of Immigration; if so, on what dates were the assistants appointed. 
When will the report become available. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Three research assistants have been assisting Professor Wilson. They are: - 
Miss V. A. Nguyen (since 1 January 1972) 

 Mr T. Q. Tan (since 10 March 1972) 
Miss M. Henderson (since 20 April 1972) 
The date of completion will depend largely on how quickly data from the 1971 Census, and required in connection with the study, can be made available. In the meantime reports on individual sections of the project are being forwarded, as completed, to the Department of Immigration. Professor Wilson expects to have completed most of the research by the end of 1973 and to submit his final report early in 1974. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's Press statement on the 12th in which he said: 'The Government has accepted with pleasure the offer by Lord Vestey to give some 35 square miles of land from the Vestey lease of Wave Hill Station in the Northern Territory.' Did Lord Vestey originally offer a larger area? If so, what were the Government's reasons for negotiating this reducation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of the circumstances but certainly I shall seek a response to the honourable senator's question without delay. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities a question. Has any further progress been made in obtaining agreement with State Ministers on the question of licensing or bonding travel agents in order to protect the public against unscrupulous and irresponsible operators? Is the position that there is nothing to stop the principals of a bankrupted travel agency from straight away setting up a new agency on the same basis as before? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Director of Safety for the Australian Federation of Air Pilots state that the average Australian airline pilot cannot cope adequately with one of the most common emergencies in aviation, that of an abortive take-off. 
Is this statement correct; if so, what steps are being taken to rectify the situation. 

 Senator COTTON - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
It is not known whether the Director of Safety for the Federation of Air Pilots made such a statement, but it is known that on 24th August 1972 he presented a paper entitled 'The Pilot and Air Safety' to a Symposium conducted by the Federation at Melbourne. The record of his presentation dealing with this subject does not refer to Australian pilots but quotes an American paper delivered in California in 1969. 
The statement in Question 1 is not that which was made in the paper presented to the Symposium. The Department of Civil Aviation and the airline companies have paid particular attention to pilot training for this manoeuvre and a recent survey has shown that Australian airline pilots are meeting the required standards in the execution of the rejected take-off procedure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has a longitudinal study of 10,000 migrants announced  by the  Minister in July 1970, and intended to be carried out by his Department, been abandoned; if so, when was it abandoned and for what reasons. 
Has any replacement study been instituted. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
After a comprehensive examination of the longitudinal type study of migrants being conducted in Canada and after consultation with the Commonwealth Statistician and the Immigration Planning Council, it was decided that a crosssectional survey wouldbe more appropriate to Australian conditions. 
For our policy planning needs, a cross-sectional survey will achieve for all practical purposes the aims of the longitudinal survey first contemplated. 
Additionally, it can be handled more easily within the resources available and give much quicker results. 
For the above reasons a cross-sectional survey was developed. 
I wish to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. I refer to the tabling of various documents related to Jetair Australia Ltd. The Minister is no doubt aware of the list of missing documents which the Leader of the Opposition in another place incorporated in Hansard  for that place of 12th October 1972. That list appears at page 2546. Will the Minister now table those documents missing from the files originally tabled? If not, will he explain why the Government is so anxious to preserve those documents from public scrutiny? 
I direct  a  further question to the Minister for Health relating to the statement which he has made. Can he tell me what were the increases suggested by the Australian Medical Association in this approach which it made? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral,  upon  notice: 
What was the total amount of money paid by the Commonwealth for the conduct of litigation involving the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society and the Sheet Metal Workers' Union. 
Of this total what sums were (a) solicitors' fees, (b) barristers' fees, and (c) costs awarded against the plaintiffs. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The answer to the honourable senator's question  is as  follows: 
and (2) No amount has yet been paid by the Commonwealth in respect of these proceedings. 
 I want to say a word or two on education because the Minister in his reply, I think, missed the whole point of what this Bill really is all about. That is the need to face the fact that there is today a crisis in education. It is a crisis which has grown up over  23  years of this Government and now, on the eve of an election, something is being done about it. There is a dichotomy in the attitudes taken by some Liberal senators.  Senator Carrick,  if I understood him correctly, seemed to be criticising the fact that the Labor Party amendment wishes to bring about some sort of centralisation in education. It is in only fairly recent times that we were able to coax the Commonwealth into the field of education. Until that time a former Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, used to say that education was a State matter, which seemed to be much the same thing as  Senator Carrick  said tonight. 

 Senator Wright provided the other side of the dichotomy by saying the Commonwealth was taking an interest in this field. 
Indeed. I think somebody said the Commonwealth was invading the State field. I know it is difficult at this time when dealing with education to avoid political expediency and because of the dual system of education one must be careful that one does not fall into the controversial pit of sectarianism. I think the whole basis of the approach of the Labor Party to this is found in what  Mr Menzies  did when he finally forsook the attitude he had taken that the Commonwealth had no right in the field of education because it was a State field.  Mr Menzies  then arranged an investigation into universities which took only 9 months. One honourable senator - I think it was  Senator Carrick  - said that if the Labor Party amendment was carried the exercise would run into 5 years. That is quite unnecessary, for there is already a system in existence and we must look at it to see what is needed. When  Sir Robert  Menzies, or  Mr Menzies  as he then was, appointed  Sir Keith  Murray to investigate the university system, a recommendation Was prepared in 9 months and the Commonwealth moved very rapidly into the field of university education - and, I suggest, it made great improvements in it. It seems to the Labor Party that it is very simple to do exactly that at all levels of education, therefore we believe that a Commonwealth commission should look into all aspects to see what is needed. 
I do not think I should waste time on  Senator Jessop's  contribution to the debate. He criticised performances of Labor Governments. He must realise that education just does not run over 12 months, and there have been changes of government. It is a tremendous pity when this type of argument creeps into a very vital field. It is tremendously vital to a small country such as ours because what we lack in numbers - and having in mind the great areas of the country that we cannot develop - we can make up in education. This can be seen amongst the Swiss and other peoples of Europe who have concentrated on education. In this debate the important point has been missed; that is that we are considering children. Whether they go to private or public schools, we have to consider the children. This point was missed completely bythe Liberal senators and cer tainly by the Minister in his speech in reply. We should consider the child irrespective of his colour, background or parents and ask whether we can educate him to the maximum of his capacity, not only for the good life for him but also for what he can contribute to Australia. 
When we look at it as a whole we see that those involved are not merely those children who go to one or two schools. We have heard a lot recently about country children, and they are a group that we must look at. We must consider also Aboriginal children, deaf children, spastic children - there are examples of spastic children who can benefit from university education, if they are given the opportunity to do so - children suffering from dyslexia, and migrant children. Unfortunately this Government has not insisted that migrant children speak English, and some of them who have attended school have been unable to grasp the language because of their natural shyness and so drop back. Therefore this is another field of education to which we must give special attention. We must not be concerned about their colour or the ethnic background or parents; we must not be concerned about their age or about the school they attend. We must concentrate on all of them to ensure that they enjoy a full life and so later can contribute something in return to Australia. It does not matter whether their parents are Catholics or athiests. The child of the athiest may turn out to be a devout religionist while the child of a devout religionist may turn out to be an athiest. These things are lost in the field of education. In this debate we have overlooked this very central point. I suppose it is natural on the eve of an election and with a dual system of education and because of the events that have gone before. But we must concentrate on the field of education. 
Debate interrupted. 
Did the Minister for Civil Aviation state recently in Wollongong that he would be considering the Maddens Plains area as a possible site for Sydney's second international airport? Is this area still under consideration as an airport site? 
I ask the Minister for Health a question. The Minister indicated earlier today that a considerable number of doctors were charging more than the most common fee but he did not indicate whether the Government proposed to take any action to oblige doctors to observe the common fee. How far must the level of observance of the common fee fall before the Government will take action to insist that doctors participating in the national health scheme observe the common fee? 
Other procedures can be adopted. As a result of the Mason inquiry, there was a significant 6 per cent increase as from 1st July right across the board, all over Australia, in relation to general practitioner surgery visits and home visits. When those figures are revealed - they will not be revealed, at the earliest, until the end of the year - the Government will have to make a judgment on whether it is prepared to carry on that existing arrangement and to look to the other alternatives open to it. We are not all simpletons. We all know that an election is to be held on 2nd December. The Government and, indeed, the Labor Party have expressed some views on that issue. I do not think that the question asked by  Senator Willesee  and the answer given by me will interfere with that issue. Clearly this is an arrangement. I think tomorrow I will be putting down the figures covering to 30th June, but they will not reveal the improvement that we hoped would result as a consequence of the Mason report which awarded an increase. 
 Mr Deputy President- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wishing to speak to the motion? I would point out that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition raised the original point of order to which objection has been taken to the ruling. 
I raised the original point of order,  Mr Deputy President,  but subsequent to that a motion of disagreement with your ruling has been moved, to which I suggest I have the right to speak, lt is true to say that I did raise the original point of order. I believe, with great respect, that it was your handling of that point of order, which incited  Senator Poyser  to move his motion of dissent. I drew your attention to, although I did not quote it, the wording of standing order 408, which states: 
By the indulgence of the Senate, a  Senator may  explain matters of a personal nature . . . 1 pointed out to you at the time,  Mr Deputy President,  that  Senator Jessop  had not claimed to have been misrepresented in regard to anything that he had said of a personal nature but that he was entering into a debate on something which  Senator Cavanagh  had said. I am not in a position to judge who is in the right, but that is not material to the argument before us. You said - very peremptorily, if I may say so - that you would be the judge. It is not much good any of us underlining the substances of our points of order in an effort to assist the occupant of the Chair if he is going to say, in a God-like manner, that he is going to be the judge. 
There are only 2 standing orders under which  Senator Jessop,  who has already spoken several times on this matter, can raise something of a personal nature. One is the standing order that deals with the making of a personal explanation, which I have already mentioned. The other is the one that provides for the explaining of words which a senator has already spoken. They are very valuable standing orders and no-one would want to see them eliminated. But I point out that  Senator Jessop  was not explaining something of a personal nature and he was not explaining words which he had used. The fact is that - I do not see how you can get around this, with great respect,  Mr Deputy President  -  Senator Jessop  was trying to enter into a debate with  Senator Cavanagh. Senator Poyser  has pointed out that a continuation of the practice of allowing such a procedure to be followed could mean that debates would be interminable and could go on to the nth degree with an 'I am right and you are wrong' and 'you did - I did not' sort of argument. I suggest to you,  Sir, that Senator Jessop  was quite out of order. I am sure that there will be other occasions and times when he will have the opportunity to disagree with  Senator Cavanagh  on this point. A disagreement between 2 honourable senators is a matter for debate and not for personal explanation. I suggest with great respect,  Mr Deputy President,  that if you were to alter your ruling at this stage it might not be necessary for the motion to be put to a vote. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Dissent has been moved from a  ruling I have given. The facts of the matter are: A statement made by  Senator Jessop  last week was referred to by  Senator Bishop.  Today  Senator Jessop  replied to that statement as he was entitled to do in a debate on the motion for the third reading of a Bill. Two members of the Opposition then contributed to the debate in varying degrees in condemnation of the statement made by  Senator Jessop. Senator Jessop  then rose and claimed to have been misrepresented. I had not heard sufficient of what  Senator Jessop  intended to say br.fore a point of order was taken. The Chair must be given an opportunity to make a judgment as to whether a senator who is claiming to have been misrepresented is in fact speaking to a matter of misrepresentation.  I ruled against the point of order on the ground that  1  had not heard sufficient of the case being put by  Senator Jessop  in the matter of the misrepresenation  to be able to make a judgment.  I  would like the motion of dissent to be withdrawn, and then the Chair could hear  Senator Jessop  as he is entitled to be heard on the ground of misrepresentation. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Poyser's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Did the last break-down of migrant unemployment figures, by year of arrival, show that of all migrants eligible to enter the workforce who had arrived in the first 8 months of 1971-72, 11 per cent was unemployed. 
Has the Minister, or the Department of Immigration made any request to the Treasurer or the Bureau of Census and Statistics to cease publication of such a break-down of migrant unemployment figures. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Immigration has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Estimates published by the Commonwealth Statistician on 19th June 1972 in his release ' The Labour Force: Country of Birth and Period of Residence in Australia, February 1972' indicated that the unemployment rate in February 1972 for persons born overseas and who had arrived between January 1971 and February 1972 was 10.9 per cent. An estimated 10,300 such persons were unemployed, compared with an estimated 84,300 who were employed. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Did the Minister say, in relation to the ability of migrants to find employment, that things have been better than normal throughout this period'. 
On what figures was this assessment based. 
Will the Minister request the Bureau of Census and Statistics to publish the break-down of migrant unemployment figures which were deleted from the last issue of 'The Labour Force'. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My statement was (Hansard, 30th August, page 873): 
I have received advice about the number of migrants in migrant hostels and the periods for which they have waited in the hostels before obtaining employment. The advice is that things have been better than normal throughout this period.' 
The statement was based on figures relating to migrants sponsored by the Government who are, of course, the only ones to enter Commonwealth hostels. At 28th July, there were 307 migrant bread-winners in hostels awaiting initial employment. Of these, 255 had been in Australia less than 4 weeks. Comparable information for those privartely sponsored - whose sponsors undertake to arrange employment for them - is not available to the Department of Immigration. 
No. The degree of breakdown of the figures derived from the labour force survey which is suitable for publication is left to the discretion of the Commonwealth Statistician. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government protested to the Government of Taiwan about the illegal fishing in Australian waters by Taiwanese fishing boats. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
There have been numerous incidents in recent years involving illegal fishing in Australian waters by Taiwanese fishing vessels despite increasing penalties which have included heavyfines and the confiscation of fishing vessels and equipment. Australia has protested to the Government of the Republic of China on a number of occasions, the latest being a protest over the recent incursions of Taiwanese fishing vessels into the fishing zones of Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
 1  ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. He may not be able to answer but because of the interest in the matter I thought he might have some information. If not, I do not mind if the question goes to the Minister for Immigration. In view of the new immigration rules published in Britain which have the effect of treating Australian citizens in the same way as aliens, does the Government intend to alter its treatment of British citizens who come to Australia? In particular, does the Government have any plans to institute a work permit system for British citizens who come to Australia which will be similar to that which operates for Australians in Britain? 
Is the Minister for Air aware of a report by the senior health inspector of the Werribee Shire Council which states that the Royal Australian Air Force is dumping inadequately treated effluent into Port Phillip Bay and that the effluent has a bacterial count more than 6 times the allowable maximum? What steps will the Minister take to ensure an immediate halt to the discharge of effluent which contravenes the stream pollution regulations and which is, to quote the report, potentially dangerous to swimmers? 
 Senator Jessop  said that in the Senate we ask more questions than are asked in the other place. I do not see the relevance of that comparison. We have half as many members as the other place and we sit for about the same period. I suppose that mathematically we should sit only half as long as the other House. I do not think there is any relevance in the point. 
It was a very poor demonstration.  Senator Jessop  went on to say that the Government does not curtail question time. Of course, the Government is not in charge of the House; it does not have a majority here. I have been a senator when the Government did have a majority and, believe me. it was quite a different kettle of fish in those days. Members of an opposition always ask more questions than government supporters do. In some Houses of Parliament in the British Commonwealth government supporters would not be allowed to ask questions. The  Speaker  would not recognise them. It is quite common for members of an opposition to act as we do here. Members of an opposition ought to be seeking advice and information. In recent times, particularly in the last few weeks, at question time a couple of Ministers have done nothing but insult us, no matter what questions we have asked. I got a shock today. I asked  Senator Wright  a question and in reply he did not insult me. As his answer was simply that I should put the question on notice I suppose it was a little difficult to insult me. The other day I asked  Senator Wright  a question about the Philippines. I asked whether the parliamentarians who were in gaol in the Philippines had been given the benefit of a trial. As  Senator Wright  is a lawyer I thought the question would appeal to him. 1 went on to ask whether these people were being put out of circulation for political reasons. The Minister answered that because of the way I had framed my question he ought not to answer it at all. Why he should take umbrage at my question is beyond me. He has not yet given me an answer to any questions about the Philippines although in the Senate he represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  I think it is a very interesting question and one of tremendous importance. In one of our neighbouring countries  Senator Aquino,  who looked like being the new  President  of the Philippines, has been interned. I suppose that if  President  Nixon gaoled  Senator McGovern  or if  Mr McMahon  gaoled  Mr Whitlam  and I asked a question about it I would be told I was insulting. Perhaps it would be an insult if that did take place. 
I ask 2 Ministers particularly to remember that we of the Opposition have a right to ask questions and to be answered in a courteous manner. We are not getting this response. Yesterday after the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  had asked us to curtail question time  Senator Jessop  asked a question about a cartoon. Senate Wright spoke for about a quarter of an hour, not about the cartoon but carrying on with his wild imaginings. In the light of that behaviour we should hardly be asked to curtail question time. What is the Government asking? If the Government accepts our view we will be out of here on Friday so that only 2 question times are involved. If it does not agree we will go through until next Thursday, 2 November, in which event only three or four more days will be involved. At most we are arguing about a couple of hours. 
It is unreasonable now to ask the Opposition to co-operate on this issue. We have co-operated on the other 2 matters. We tried to co-operate yesterday but we were rejected. I will be disappointed if the motion is carried.  Senator Cavanagh  is right in saying that it is not merely a matter of politics on the eve of an election, that it is not merely a matter of the Government's trying to gain some little political advantage. The Government is trying to strike fundamentally at one House of Parliament in Australia. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission intend to eliminate almost all topical political items from Canberra on a television show known as "This Day Tonight'? Will the show in future consist of localised State programmes instead of the present MelbourneSydneyCanberra linkup? If these changes are intended, who made the decision and what is the Government's attitude on the matter? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to my question No. 2216 on the notice paper regarding the amount of money paid by the Commonwealth for the conduct of litigation involving the amalgamation of unions to form the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. In the Minister's answer, which was given on 19th October, he said that no amount has yet been paid by the Commonwealth in respect of these proceedings. I ask: Is the Commonwealth liable for any legal fees or does it feel that it should make an ex gratia payment in regard to the proceedings and, if so, what is the amount of the liability? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the use of mercury compounds as a seed dressing been prohibited as from March 1973? Is the use of hexachlorobenzene for this purpose also prohibited? If so, what alternatives are available to wheat growers? What steps are being taken to ensure that the available alternatives are cleared for registration in time for treating seen wheat of this season's crop? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is at present no law in the Territory of Papua New Guinea making telephone tapping illegal; if so, what Regulations govern police 'phone tapping activities in the Territory and what is the current frequency of police 'phone tapping? 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are provisions in the Criminal Codes and Posts and Telegraphs Ordinances of the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea respectively dealing generally with interference to telephone services. There are no laws dealing specifically with telephone tapping at present. 
The Department of Posts and Telegraphs, at the request of the Police, occasionally taps telephone calls of an obscene or objectionable nature. The 
Department at the request of the police also taps telephone calls where necessary in connection with criminal charges of a serious nature. 
New legislation to regulate the use of telephone tapping and listening devices generally, has been introduced in the House of Assembly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government participated in any of the diplomatic initiatives which have been employed in an attempt to persuade General Amin to alter his decision to expel all Asians at present living in Uganda? 
Does the Government have any proposals for action to persuade the Ugandan Government to desist from, or delay proceeding with, its expulsion orders? 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
and (2) The Australian Government has consulted closely with a number of friendly governments over the situation created by  President  Amin's order.  President  Amin has, however, already rejected representations by both Britain and Zaire that he should desist from or delay the expulsion of Asians who are not Ugandan citizens. In these circumstances, the Australian Government has given priority to positive ways of alleviating the grave humanitarian problem involved. For example, special priority has been given to the urgent, sympathetic processing of applications from Asian residents of Uganda, regardless of their citizenship, who wish to emigrate to Australia. Additionally the Government is prepared to contribute $50,000 to an international effort to move Asians from Uganda to other countries willing to receive them. In all, there are twenty-nine countries of which Australia is one which (in addition to Britain) are willing to receive some of the Asians from Uganda and so help relieve this pressing problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General consult with the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts so as to formulate standards for television advertisements, which would prohibit advertisements which display or promote defilement of the environment. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have discussed with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board the question of advertisements which could be considered to display or promote defilement of the environment. The Board collaborated with representatives of advertisers, advertising agencies and television stations in the issue, in 1966, of guidelines to be observed in the production of television advertisements. The guidelines, which have been revised since, presently contain provisions relating to such matters as the avoidance of the depiction of dangerous driving habits, situations which could be dangerous for children if imitated, bad taste in presentation, etc. The matter raised by  Senator Willesee  appears to merit consideration for inclusion in the guidelines and the Board is proceeding in the matter in conjunction with the relevant industy bodies, and will consult the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General seen the report prepared for the Australian Retail Chambers of Automotive Industries, in which the Commonwealth Government's protection of foreign-owned car manufacturers, at the expense of Australian car buyers, is strongly criticised. 
Does the Attorney-General plan to introduce legislation to control the standard sales agreement which has preserved the protection of foreign-owned car manufacturers in Australia, as referred to in (1.). 
Does the Attorney-General plan to introduce legislation to govern the presently uncontrolled franchise relationships which exist between car manufacturers and car dealers. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Government has no present proposal to introduce legislation to deal specifically with the particular matters mentioned. So far as legislation of general application is concerned, I refer the honourable senator to the Monopolies Commission Bill 1972 which I introduced on 25th October 1972. It would, however, be inappropriate to express a view as to whether the matters mentioned in the question could be the subject of inquiry under the provisions in that Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When will the joint environmental study of the Alligator River region in the Northern Territory be completed. 
Will the findings of the study be made  public. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is expected that the environmental study will be completed in September 1973; but the final report may not be available until early 1974. 
The report, when available, will be made public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
What information does the Minister possess on the treatment of prominent Philippines Journalists and politicians, including  Senator Benigno  Aquino, who were detained as a result of the recent declaration of martial law in that country? 
Have any criminal charges been laid against the detainees; if not, is their detention designed to remove them indefinitely from the arena of active politics in the Philippines? 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
Martial Law came into effect throughout the Philippines on 22nd September 1972.  President  Marcos stated that Martial Law had been proclaimed in accordance with the powers vested in the  President  under Article 7, Section 10, paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of the Philippines as the Republic was threatened by communist insurgency and subversion. Martial Law detainees at Philippine Constabulary Headquarters and/or military camps include a number of journalists and politicians, among them  Senator Benigno  Aquino Jr. The Secretary of the Department of Public Information,  Mr Francisco  Tatad, has stated that detainees 'are living in comfortable quarters with all the conveniences of home including radio and television'. I understand that detainees may be visited by close relatives. 
It is my understanding that no criminal charges have been laid against the detainees, but that  President  Marcos has stated that detainees will be given the choice of a hearing or a proper trial. Some detainees have already been released.  Senator Benigno  Aquino Jr. and some others have been brought physically before the Supreme Court in connection with applications for the writ of habeas corpus. 
As to the latter part of the question, it is not the policy of the Australian Government to comment upon the internal affairs of a country with which it has close and friendly relations. It is noted, however, that President Marcos has stated that Martial Law will be terminated as soon as conditions allow, if possible before the national elections scheduled for November 1973. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What criteria are used to determine which journalists accompany a Minister on a VIP flight when the number of requests exceeds the number of places available or, as is apparently the case in the proposed visit of the Minister for External Territories to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the number of places which the Minister decides to make available. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The answer the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The general rules for VIP travel set out in my statement to the Senate on 30th September 1970 provide that 'on special occasions or on visits to remote areas, approval may be given for a VIP to be accompanied by representatives of news media'. 
On special occasions such as election campaigns, the selection of Press representatives is generally determined by the capacity of the aircraft and the VIP's nomination, having regard to the number of news services desiring representation. In these circumstances it is the practice to charge Press representatives the equivalent of commercial economy fares. 
On visits to remote areas, it is usual that no more than 2 press representatives accompany a VIP and the selection is determined by the VIP's nomination and the desire that the choice should adequately reflect Press interest. The guidelines are not inflexible and, should a VIP consider that special circumstances warrant exception to the general principle of limiting representation to 2, a further approach may be made to the Prime Minister for approval to exceed this number. 
For the visit to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Minister for External Territories complied with the necesary criteria and approval was granted for 4 pressmen, representing different newspaper groups, to accompany him. 
I ask the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral: Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board say that as the law stood at present he had no option but to ban the broadcasting of electoral material in the statutory period before the Charlestown by-election? Does the Government intend to uphold the present law by enforcing this ban placed by the Broadcasting Control Board? If not, what action does it propose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the use of mercury compounds as a seed dressing been prohibited as from March 1973? Is the use of hexachlorobenzene for this purpose also prohibited? If so, what alternatives are available to wheat growers? What steps are being taken to ensure that the available alternatives are cleared for registration in time for treating seed wheat of this season's crop? 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Agricultural Council has recommended that State governments should prohibit the use of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) after 1972 as a cereal seed dressing. It also recommended that the use of organo-mercury compounds for this purpose should be prohibited after 1st March 1973. The registration of pesticide chemicals, including seed dressing preparations, is a matter for individual State governments. 
Other products have been evaluated and found to be effective for the treatment of seed grain. One of them, Carboxin (Vitavax), is currently registered in all States. Mancozeb is also registered in some States and is under consideration in others. It is anticipated that other alternative compounds will be considered for registration in the near future. 
Wheatgrowers should not be confronted with any difficulties in obtaining suitable chemicals for the treatment of seed wheat when HCB and organomercury compounds are withdrawn from use. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the latest information that the Department of Foreign Affairs possesses on the whereabouts of  Mr Ben  Bella, the former  President  of Algeria. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs is unable to confirm the present whereabouts of the former  President  of Algeria,  Mr Ahmed  Ben Bella. However, the Department has reason to believe that  Mr Ben  Bella is under house arrest in the legion of Algiers. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Does the Attorney-General know whether a substantial number of aliens have failed  to  register in accordance with the requirements of the Aliens Act; if so, has this failure hampered the police investigating the recent bomb outrages in Sydney, New South Wales. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
For details of compliance by aliens with the requirements of the Aliens Act 1948-1966 see the answers  to  Question Numbers 2441 and 2466 provided by the Minister for Immigration (Hansard pages 1552 and 1585). The police authorities investigating the recent bomb incidents in Sydney have been assisted in their enquiries as a result of the large amount of information available  from  the Alien Registers. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Why were the papers tabled in the Senate on 27th September 1971, relating the the purchase of aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd, not in chronological order. 
Were the papers tabled originally kept  in  chronological order. 
Is it the normal practice in the Commonwealth Public Service to keep files in chronological order. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
and (2) The papers tabled are in the same order as they appear on the file. 
It is normal practice to file papers according to the date of receipt of despatch. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has a reply been drafted to a protest note received from the Yugoslav Government concerning anti- Yugoslav terrorist activities in Australia. 
If the answer to (1) is in the negative what are the reasons for the delay in dispatching the reply. 
If a reply has been sent, what were its terms. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following information in reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
See answer to (1). 
It is not appropriate to make public the precise terms of intergovernmental communications of this nature. However, the Australian Government has emphasised to the Yugoslav Government that acts of terrorism arc viewed with the most serious concern by the Australian Government and that, when such acts occur in Australia, the Government will use all its resources to apprehend and prosecute the offenders.It is equally determined to prevent Australia from being used at any time as a base for terrorist acts in any other country. The Note also indicated that allegations which have been made are still under investigation and the Government is not yet in a position to pass judgment on them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minster for Immigration, upon notice: 
What percentage of Aliens notified particulars required of them under the Aliens Act for the years 1970 and 1971. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Fifty-one per cent of registered aliens complied with 1970 notification requirement. 
By November 1971, 48 per cent of registered aliens had complied with the notification requirements  for  that year. However, also see answer to Question 2441 regarding subsequent developments concerning introduction of a computer system and further overall review (Hansard page 1552) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What has been the expenditure in each of the last 3 years on advertising to attract migrants to Australia in each country where advertisements were placed. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following are details of the expenditure and countries in which my Department has advertised directly to attract migrants in each of the last three years: 
My question  u  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. I refer to the detonators which were dumped off the coast near Jervis Bay last Friday by the Navy and which are now being washed up on beaches in this area. Is this dumping a regular practice of the Navy? Have there been any previous cases of dumped items being washed up on adjacent beaches? What steps are being taken to prevent a repetition of this incident and is it possible to have these detonators destroyed by detonation? 
 Mr Temporary Chairman, Senator Sim  has aroused my interest in his attack on the Government and the Country Party particularly. 
What the honourable senator did say about the Opposition was that  Senator O'Byrne  and he used to agree but now they did not and that  Dr Cairns  had changed his mind since 1967.  Dr Cairns  is apparently one of the unlearned ones referred to by the Minister. The honourable senator went on to say that we cannot ignore the structural changes in industry. At that stage I lost his line of thinking. If we are to have structural changes in industry which cannot be ignored, it seems to me that  Senator O'Byrne  and  Dr Cairns  are more on the ball than  Senator Sim  is. But perhaps I am mistaken because I have been assured that  Senator Sim  is a very learned man and that  Dr Cairns  is not. 
I rose to ask the. Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  another question.  Senator Sim  mentioned quantitative imports and seemed to indicate that this policy had been discontinued. At one time the Government based quite a deal of its economic policy on the fact that a number of imports were controlled quantitatively. In other words, the Government applied import controls. 
Oh, just be quiet! You have said enough silly things tonight. Quantitative imports were a basic part of Government economic policy in the 1950s when what we term import controls were applied. On one occasion this Senate condemned that. A rapport existed at that time between the then Minister for Trade and Industry and the Senate. It was agreed (.hat it was not sufficient for the Government to say that  Mr A  could have whatever imports he wanted depending on all sorts of things including the colour of his eyes and his politics. At the insistence of the Senate the Government at that stage set up industry committees to advise the Government. 
As I understand it, particularly in relation to the question of the import of knitted shirts, the Government has returned now to that quantitative system of import control but it is not following now any of the procedures on which the Senate insisted such as industry committees to advise the Government on those to whom these restrictions should be applied. The Senate adopted the view in 1957 that it was dangerous - indeed, it was tyrannical - to permit some civil servant the right to say that one man who applied would have unrestricted imports of his commodity; another could have imports that he sought and a third person who applied would not be permitted to import any commodities for which he sought approval. It seems to me that the Government has returned to this policy. If appears that, from what  Senator Sim  has stated, changes in tariff policy have occurred. Can the Minister give the Committee any informa tion as to whether the safeguards on which the Senate insisted in 1957 have been written into the new policy of quantitative imports control? I understand that this is the policy to which the Government has returned, particularly in relation to knitted shirts. I do not know who wears knitted shirts, but evidently somebody does, and it is thought there should be safeguards as to the importation of knitted shirts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Minister take steps to have the Australian Industries Development Corporation reveal the identity of those companies to which it has provided funds. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government established the Australian Industry Development Corporation as a body set apart from Government with the intention that it conduct its affairs for all practical purposes as if it was a private enterprise company and with the confidentiality of its commercial affairs respected in the normal way. it would not, therefore, be appropriate for me to request the AIDC to make public the particular information you have requested. However, the following companies have themselves announced publicly that they have had funds provided by, or other financial commitments undertaken or on offer from AIDC: 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Did the Senior Health Inspector of the Werribee Shire Council claim in a report that the Royal Australian Air Force is dumping inadequately treated effluent, with a bacterial count of more than 6 times the allowable maximum, into Port Phillip Bay; if so, will the Minister take steps to ensure that the discharge of effluent which contravenes the Stream Pollution Regulations, and according to the report of the Senior Health Inspector is 'potentially dangerous to swimmers', is stopped immediately. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to statements in the Press on the lines indicated by Senato Willesee, although I understand my Department has not received a copy of the report mentioned and 1 have not yet received a copy myself. 
The position is that the current sewage treatment works at RAAF Base Point Cook has been in existence for many years and is reaching the end of its useful life. A new sewage treatment works is being constructed, for the design of which approvals were sought and obtained from the Port Phillip Authority and the Victorian Department of Health. Construction of the new works has commenced and target completion date is January 1973. 
Part of the project has involved removal of the existing chlorinator for overhaul and modification so that it can be fitted to the new treatment works. The chlorinator is due for replacement in the next week, lt is understood that the levels of pollution referred to in the Press stories were based upon tests carried out during the period that the chlorinator has been inoperative. The reconnection of the chlorinator should ensure that in relation to effluent from RAAF Base Point Cook bacterial counts are below accepted maximum levels pending the completion of the new treatment works. 
I know that there was a  Mr John  Menadue who was private secretary to  Mr Whitlam.  I do not have a clue about the other people mentioned. 
I understand that there is a question about this matter on the notice paper of the House of Representatives, which may inhibit me somewhat. 
The briefings I. have received .from the Treasurer do not contain the . figures that the honourable senator has requested but I shall certainly obtain the information and let the honour-able.' senator have it. 
The honourable senator asks me whether I will ask my colleague about this matter, the answer is yes. 
I shall convey the request to the Prime Minister to see whether he will consider putting this matter on the agenda. 
There has been talk in New Zealand of a ship going into the nuclear test zone but there has been no such discussion in Australia. 
I did not know that  Senator McManus  intended to raise the matter which he raised this evening. 1 apologise for not being present when he raised it. I was called out to speak to a member of the other House. I did get the sense of what he said. There is a considerable amount of trade between Taiwan and Australia. That trade will continue under private arrangements, withoutlet or hindrance by the Australian Government. Private people, business people and sporting people can come from Taiwan to Australia and can return to Taiwan. That is the situation at present. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Some Cabinet Ministers were present at the send-off for  Dr Stephen 
Fitzgerald, who is going to Peking. I am assured by the Ministers who were there that all Ministers stood for the playing of the National Anthem. Therefore, I cannot answer the rest of the honourable senator's question which was based on a falsity. 
1 will convey the honourable senator's request to the Treasurer. I assume that it would be convenient to the honourable senator to have information for a similar period if not the particular period suggested by him. I will convey his request in that form and obtain an answer for him. 
The situation of prisoners is tied up with the cease fire agreement in Vietnam. The protocol provides that within 3 months - action, was first to be commenced within 15 days - action will be taken in South Vietnam to release prisoners. It is an international agreement and the feeling of the Australian Government is that time should be allowed for it to be worked out. I take it that if at the end of 2 months the position is unsatisfactory the International Control Commission will be reporting on it. I received a deputation from the organisation which  Senator Mulvhill  has in mind. I explained to the deputation that I did not have at that time the information it was seeking. 
Already lists of prisoners have been exchanged. About 7,000 of the approximate total number of 27,000 prisoners have already been released. The Australian Embassy in Saigon has been taking an interest in the prisoners who were taken by Australian soldiers during their term in Vietnam. I am referring to civilians. It has been difficult to get accurate records of the situation, but we understand that these people were taken across to Con Son Island. That is about as much as we know at this stage. We have taken an interest in the prisoners taken by Australians and wc know that about 7,000 of a total of about 27,000 prisoners have already been released. As to the question of aid, here we move into another area. The Australian Government is prepared to give generous aid to the whole of Indo-China when that is possible. I point out that fighting has not yet ended in the Khmer Republic. I doubt very much whether many strings would be attached to the aid. in the way the honourable senator has suggested. 
This matter does not come within my portfolio although it comes within one which I represent. I am sure that  Senator Little  does not expect me to have those figures in my head. I will obtain an answer for him as soon as possible. 
 I was asked earlier today to give an assurance that no aid would be going to South Vietnam while certain action was taken there. Now I am asked about aid to North Vietnam. I repeat part of the answer I gave earlier. The Australian Government stands ready to give generous aid to the whole of Indo-China when that is possible. It is still not possible to provide aid to the Khmer Republic. We will be giving aid because it is the attitude of this Government - it has always been the attitude of Australian governments - not to tie aid to a particular situation or to any other conditions that the honourable senator might like to apply. He should realise that people in IndoChina, whether Khmers, Laotians or North or South Vietnamese have come through one of the most terrible holocausts in our history. We stand ready to help people irrespective of what their governments have done in the past. Unless the ceasefire agreement breaks down and it is impossible to send aid teams into the area, we will be helping by adopting a humanitarian attitude, firstly, to assist the victims of aggression. 
The honourable senator has asked whether my attention has been drawn to 2 newspaper articles. I suppose that if I had read them my attention would have been drawn to them. I have not read them. I am a notoriously poor newspaper reader. The honourable senator asked whether scathing remarks were made about a Foreign Minister by members of  Mr Whitlam's  staff or other people who travelled with him. I do not know anything about the matter. Knowing the staff who did travel with the Prime Minister I can say on their behalf, without even talking to them, that they did not make the remarks alleged by the honourable senator. I would say that the question is based on a false premise. The Australian Government has not contacted the Indonesian Government regarding this matter. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no, we will not give such warnings. I will make inquiries to see whether I can help  Senator McManus  with information about the alleged statements by Francis James. 
I think the words 1 used were to this effect: 'Knowing the staff that travelled up there, I can say no.' If we started to ask journalists to come and explain everything to this Parliament or to Ministers we would be doing nothing else. I do not think we will be asking the journalists to explain. They have made a statement. I have not asked the other people present about the matter. If  Senator Carrick  is so anxious about this matter I suggest that he ask those gentlemen or ladies whether they did make these statements. That would be the easiest way for the honourable senator to find out. Knowing the people who travelled with the Prime Minister I would say that they did not make the statements. If the honourable senator thinks that I am wrong I suggest he ask them. 
I do not know the pages to which the honourable  senator  referred. However,  Mr Frank  Kirwan is employed by  Mr Beazley  and  Mr Kennedy  is employed by  Dr J.  F. Cairns. I understand that when a former premier of Queensland was defeated at an election he was employed in one of the government departments. 
 Unfortunately  Senator Byrne  started in error. He finished by giving the real reason for moving the motion - straightout politicking. It was unfortunate that he did this. He finished by challenging Queensland senators about where they stand. He asked them to stand and be counted and used other familiar terms that we hear on occasions in this place. The first thing  1  dispose of is his statement that in voting for the Senate to meet at a certain hour tomorrow morning the Senate is voting on the matters that be raised. I am afraid that he raised them in a way which would not, unless we put the record straight, give anybody reading Hansard a very clear view of what the story was all about. 
Honourable senators might remember that a little while ago this matter of motions for adjournment to debate matters of urgency was referred to the Standing Orders Committee because we felt that the form used was a rather quaint way of enabling this section of the Parliament to debate matters which should be brought to the public attention and which should be considered by the Parliament. It was laid down clearly that at no time was the Senate debating anything but the vehicle of enabling something to be raised. I quote from a book which is quoted often. It has become very thumb marked over the years. I quote: 
By the very nature of an urgency motion, no issue can be determined, but opportunity is afforded to spotlight some specific matter which, in the opinion of those senators supporting the motion, is of sufficient urgency to warrant the immediate consideration of the Senate. In 1971 the Standing Orders Committee considered a proposal that the Senate should vote on the subject matter of the urgency motton, rather than the question of rising until an unusual time. The effect, however, would be to accord precedence to a substantive motion of General Business, which would be contrary to the purpose of the standing order. Furthermore, there are established procedures for proposing substantive motions to tho Senate. It was decided, therefore, not to make any, alteration to the existing practice. 
The first thing I say is that whatever vote is taken on the matter tonight we are merely deciding that we shall meet at  10.55  a.m. tomorrow. 
I quoted from a book with which I have not heard very many people argue so far. I emphasise the fact that the matter was re-examined, after  71  years, by an all-party committee. I have quoted its decision.  Senator Byrne  handled the whole of this debate as though the Australian Government wanted to excise some islands on which certain people lived and to give those islands to Papua New Guinea. There did not seem to be any argument as to why this should be done and, of course, that is not the situation at all. The situation is that an untenable border exists at the moment between Australia and a country which will shortly be independent and sovereign. For many years Australia has been working towards that end and helping that country. Obviously it will be an important neighbour to us and we will be its most important neighbour. 

 Senator Byrne used a lot of exaggerated language. He talked about truncating a State. He did not say that the border was several miles out to sea from Queensland and but one mile from Papua New Guinea. He talked about transfer without consultation. But that has never been suggested. The position has been made clear.  Senator Byrne  in his quotation chose to give emphasis to one side of the quotation and not the other. He asks the Senate to adopt a role as the protector of the States. But he, above all, knows perfectly well that in a very short time this will not be a matter of States but a matter of a border between an independent, sovereign country - that is Papua New Guinea on the one hand and Australia on the other. The preamble to the motion appears to assert that the issues involved in negotiations concerning the border between Australia and Papua New Guinea are matters for the Queensland Parliament. On the other hand it is clear that relations with other neighbours are clearly within the constitutional capacity of this Parliament. Equally, since the referendum of June 1967, this Parliament possesses at least concurrent powers in relation to persons descended from the original inhabitants of the continent and islands forming part of the Commonwealth. 
The motion implies that the matter of the border between Australia and Papua New Guinea affects the Torres Strait islanders alone. The fact is that all citizens of Australia are affected by the border problem with a neighbouring country and the interests of the people of Australia and Papua New Guinea as a whole must be considered in any settlement which is reached. In saying that I do not wish in any way to downgrade the importance of the interests of the Torres Strait islanders. The Government has a number of reasons for wishing to settle the border problem within a reasonable time. The first and most fundamental desire for this settlement is that the Government is anxious to remove a source of possible friction between an independent Papua New Guinea and Australia. Secondly, the maintenance of an Australian border within a few hundred metres of the Papua New Guinea shoreline would be quite untenable internationally. Honourable senators may recall the concern of the United Nations in this matter. I read from the report of the United Nations visiting mission to the Trust Territory of New Guinea as late as 1971: 
The border runs within a mile of the Papuan coast and includes under Queensland jurisdiction all the intervening islands, including 3, with a total population of 370, which lie close inshore. This situation is  regarded  locally on the Papuan side as anomalous and there is incipient pressure for revision of the boundary in the Territory's favour. This is far from being a national issue as yet, but could develop into a source of potential friction unless sympathetically handled. 
I suggest to honourable senators that since that report was written the attitude which  Mr Somare  has taken, which in my view is quite reasonable, has made that incipience a little more prominent than it was then. Thirdly, it is obviously of advantage to the Australian Government to attempt an amicable settlement of the problem while Australia has jurisdiction on both sides of the border, always bearing in mind the wishes and rights of the Torres Strait islands people involved. Some matters of history need to be considered in regard to the border. It was set while Australia was still a British colony and was made, of course, without consultation of the Australian people as a whole or, indeed, the people of Papua New Guinea. 
It was conceded by Queensland magistrate Douglas in 1886 and the Queensland Premier.  Mr Griffith,  in 1893 that the border as it then existed was unfair. It appears that Queensland had agreed to a relocation of the border before Federation but such relocation was never finally effected and the border remains in its original position today. The motion as framed by  Senator Byrne  misrepresents the attitude of the Australian Government towards the citizens of the Torres Strait islands who may be affected by an alteration of the boundary. I take this opportunity to point out to honourable senators that the wishes and rights of the people inhabiting these islands have been at the forefront of consideration of this matter by this Government and the Papua New Guinea Government. I quote the following passage from a communique issued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  and the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea on 17th January this year as evidence of this attitude. Honourable senators will notice where the wrong emphasis was placed by  Senator Byrne  when he read this passage. It states: 
The Prime Minister said that the Australian Government was willing in principle to negotiate the relocation of the border and indeed was keen to do so and would not allow any narrow considerations to obstruct a settlement, but the Government noted that there were constitutional considerations which had to be taken into account and which might delay the matter. Moreover- 
Let this be underlined -  it would be most reluctant to be a party to any settlement which was not accepted by the Islanders in the respects which affected them. 
The honourable senator read every word and emphasised one narrow section. The communique continued: 
The Chief Minister reaffirmed that the existing border was unacceptable to his Government but he was confident that it would be possible to reach  a  solution which would be generally acceptable to  all  parties including the islanders. 
I believe that situation is one which still obtains unless people want to exacerbate a position which is not really present at the moment. The communique further stated: 
He said that his Government was conscious of the existing rights including land rights of the islanders and intended that these should be safeguarded in any settlement that might be reached. The Australian Government has asked the Council for Aboriginal Affairs to arrange a meeting with the  chairman  of the island's councils in order to try to identify and clarify the islanders' anxieties and wishes and possibly to assess how far these might be met in a settlement entailing a  relocation of the border. The Australian Government would facilitate contact between the Papua New Guinea Government and the islanders if the Papua New Guinea Government wishes. 
The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister agreed that Australian officials should engage in early discussions with Papua New Guinea officials with a view to seeking provisional agreement between Australia and Papua New Guinea on issues other than that of territorial sovereignty of the islands. These relate to seabed divisions, fishing and navigation rights. 
An interdepartmental committee of interested Commonwealth departments at this moment is giving consideration to attitudes to be taken by the Commonwealth in the proposed discussions with Papua New Guinea officials. The attitude of the Papua New Guinea Government was expressed in another way by  Mr Ebia  Olewale, who is Minister for Education, in a statement reported on 3rd May 1972 in which he said that it was unreasonable to ask Papua New Guinea to put up with a situation which Queensland would not tolerate should the positions be reversed. As a first step in the consultation necessary to enable the islanders to understand the issues and to express their views the Australian Government has asked the Council for Aboriginal Affairs to meet the representatives of the islanders in order to identify and clarify the islanders' anxieties and wishes. Some preliminary steps have been taken towards such a meeting. 
The crux of the matter is that the Commonwealth Government has recognised that the present border between Papua New Guinea and Australia is in need of adjustment, and having recognised that fact the Government is anxious to arrange a settlement which is in the best interests of all the parties concerned. The Government is adopt ing a flexible approach to the matter and is considering a number of proposals which may enable changes to be made while at the same time preserving the citizenship and land rights of those Torres Strait islanders affected. On the other hand  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  apparently believes that the border should not be changed under any circumstances and that it represents a perfectly acceptable situation for the present border to run so close to the coast of Papua New Guinea. I believe that  Mr Olewale's  comment is relevant here and that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  should try to place himself in the New Guineans' position in order to see that Papua New Guinea has a reasonable case for requesting a variation of the present border. The Council for Aboriginal Affairs will establish communication with the islanders and in due course there will be discussions with them by the Prime Minister and other Ministers concerned. 
I think I should make one comment on the concept of a referendum which looms so large in  Senator Byrne's  motion. A referendum can only be an instrument for expressing a legitimate opportunity if the voters are properly informed of the various alternatives which are available and on which the referendum is based. It seems clear that the islanders have been extensively informed about one alternative, the one favoured by  Mr BjelkePetersen  to maintain the status quo. The other alternatives appear to have been misrepresented or simply withheld from the islanders and it is for this reason that the Government attaches such great importance to the Council for Aboriginal Affairs establishing proper communications with the people of the islands. The Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  has announced that his Department is forming a task force to report on a wide spectrum of issues including the Queensland Government's dealings with the islanders. This task force might be expected to inquire into the inadequacies of past communications between the Federal Government and the islanders and to recommend ways in which the position should be improved. 
Honourable senators may be assured that the deep concern which the present Government feels and is expressing in its actions for Australians of Aboriginal and island descent will be equally apparent in its dealings with Torres Strait islanders in this matter. Given this assurance, I underline the point that if this motion is carried and  Senator Byrne's  view, as wrong as it is, is given credence, it could only inhibit future negotiations between 2 sovereign nations - Papua New Guinea on the one hand and Australia on the other. (Honourable senators interjecting) - 
1 do not know what this has to do with the Special Minister of State. What people do- 
Yes. 
No. I did not know that a referendum had found that. 
I did not know that a gallup poli had found that. 
No, it is not. 
Yes, there is a considerable amount of trade between Taiwan and Australia. As I said last night in answer to  Senator McManus,  this will go on without let or hindrance by the Australian Government. There ' is a difference in the trading arrangements as between Japan and Australia. Of course, historically the situation is vastly different. The honourable senator knows the history of that; I do not have to go into it. Japan occupied Taiwan for many years and many Japanese people were born there. The whole relationship is completely different. The second part of the honourable senator's question related to people visiting Taiwan. 
Different arrangements have been made in all of these things. 
There is a difference in the wording which the honourable senator asked about yesterday. There is a difference in trading relations between Taiwan and nearly every country that has recognised Taiwan. Our situation is that any businessman is free to go to Taiwan and make arrangements. The previous situation will carry on. We will not interfere with the business community in doing whatever it likes in relation to Taiwan, providing of course it is "done under a lawful contact. There will be no interference with people travelling to or from Taiwan. There is a travel agency in Taiwan called the Chung Hwa Travel Service which will facilitate- 
We have our official representation in Hong Kong where Australians can obtain visas.  Senator Little  may be right that it is in Hong Kong, but I thought that there was a Chung Hwa trading company in Taiwan. But in Hong Kong also people can go lo our office. The .broad situation is that we will not be interfering wilh people - sportsmen, businessmen or what have you - who wish to come and go. We will not be interfering in any way with trade between businessmen in Taiwan and Australia. 
Any decision such as that referred to by the honourable senator would be a joint Cabinet decision. That answers the latter part of the honourable senator's question. I suggest to her that she place the other part of her question on the notice paper and" I will get an answer for her. 
I think it is highly unlikely that the any Prime Minister would do such a thing. However, if the honourable senator puts his question on the notice paper I will try to find out about this matter for him as he seems to have an inordinate interest in it. 
 Senator Gair  already has a question on the notice paper concerning a tour by a women's basketball team. Therefore J do not think I should deal with that part of the honourable senator's question. 
And the honourable senator has one on judo. 
 I think the 2 honourable senators should reverse positions. I think  Senator McManus  would be the better basketball player and Vince would be the better judo exponent. 
A ruling has been given on several occasions about the asking of questions concerning matters that are already the subject of questions on the notice paper. I have some information on the judo team's visit but I do not have any on the basketball team's visit. I made inquiries about this matter after the adjournment debate last night. I repeat that a ruling has been given about the asking of questions concerning matters that are already the subject of questions on the notice paper. I will obtain information for both honourable senators as soon as possible. 
Although the question was addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade, I think it falls more into my area. The situation is that we have made the choice to recognise China. This is a choice that governments throughout the world have had to make and most of the governments of the world have done just that. Coming to this question of trade, the situation is made quite clear in  Dr Cairns'  letter, if the honourable senator will look at it. The situation as both  Dr Cairns  and I have put it is that trade can proceed without let or hindrance from the Australian Government. 
I am just coming to that, if you do not mind. The reason that a trade mission has been taken away from Taiwan and the Australian Government will not send Government trade missions there is that it is not a country which we recognise any more. It is a province of China. Therefore what wc are doing is allowing free trade to go on and allowing people to travel to and from Taiwan. That is the business of the people who do this; it is not a matter in which the Government should intervene. The reason that there is a Japanese trade mission in particular in Taiwan is the historical association and the closer relations that Japan has had with Taiwan. That is the business of Japan. Also, it is the business of Canada that it has a trade mission there. We have made a clear decision. 
Because the decision of die Australian Government- 
Does the honourable senator want me to answer the question or does he want me to debate the matter? 
I was not evading it. 1 am telling the honourable senator what the Australian Government has done. We have recognised the People's Republic of China and wc have had a formula in regard to Taiwan. We will allow trade there. We will not have officials calling themselves the Australian trade mission or anything else. We have no official bodies in Taiwan. We do not interfere with trade. The honourable senator has made an allegation that trade is flowing to Canada and Japan to our detriment. I have no evidence of that. 
Yes, we recognise South Vietnam. Yes, we recognise North Vietnam. We believe that Vietnam should be one nation. However, one must take into consideration the fact that other governments recognise North Vietnam, Both governments in Vietnam are in effective control of very large parts of the country. We will be supplying aid to both in the very near future. They are going to be beard in this area, and because of that we have decided with other governments of the world to recognise the Democratic Republic of North Vietnam. 
It appears that there is some confusion about this matter. The information we have in the Department of Foreign Affairs is that there is no official Canadian trade representation in Taiwan. That is the official news we have, and I find that the Department is generally right. It could well be that prominent Canadian private trading companies are operating in Taiwan in the same way as I think there will be Australian companies operating in Taiwan. But there are no official government trading posts in Taiwan. 
It is true that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government recognised Bangladesh. 
Of course we do. I do not know how far back I have to start with  Senator Wood  in order to put this into order. Yes,  Senator Wood's  Government recognised Bangladesh. Yes, we continue to recognise Bangladesh. I will explain once again that the situation regarding China and 
Taiwan was that we made a decision, as have most governments in the world. The Government of Taiwan has claimed to be the Government of the whole of China. On the other hand, the Government of the People's Republic of China has made a similar claim. Taiwan controls about 15 million people and the People's Republic controls 700 million people. As was the case with many other governments, we decided to recognise What has been a fact now for nearly a quarter of a century. Because of that we do not recognise the Government of Taiwan as being the government controlling the whole of the Chinese people. We have recognised the Government of the People's Republic of China and have taken note of its view that Taiwan is one of its provinces. 
I do not know what effect that would have on traffic. There are some interesting comments inherent in the question and I shall refer them to the Minister. 
I do not know whether the article in 'Newsweek' referred to by the honourable senator correctly reported the Prime Minister. As I do not know that, I cannot answer, the remainder of the question. 
I have not seen the briefing for our delegates there. I shall find out what I can for the honourable senator. 
I have not seen the report. I do not think Cabinet documents would be made available until a decision had been made by Cabinet. 
No, despite my many duties"! do not know why the Press does not write on particular items. I do not think it is my job to tell the Press what to write about it' For our own part, we now publish a monthly Treasury Information Bulletin' in lieu . of the old quarterly one, and I should nave, thought that was the type of action the Government ought to take to inform the public of the state- of the economy. 
The answer to the . first part of the question is no, I have not seen the article. On the aspect of trade, the only thing I have seen recently was a report that the Victorian Liberal Minister,  Mr Byrne,  seemed to think that trade would flourish between Communist China and Australia. The rest of the question I do not think deserves an answer. 
At the United Nations the Secretary-General had inscribed an item on the question of terrorism. Australia, with Canada, the United Kingdom and several other nations, co-sponsored a resolution which would have had the  effect of  the International Law Commission's preparing a draft convention.' This was voted against, mainly by the 'non-aligned countries, their reasoning being that it might impede genuine revolutionary movements throughout the world. They in turn passed a resolution' which invited members to put forward their ideas on terrorism to a newly formed committee. Australia .voted against that, on the basis that it did not underline the urgency and seriousness of -terrorism : throughout the world. Australia made it clear. at the same time - this is in answer to the -honourable senator's last question - that it would work with' the United Nations in its- efforts to do something about the: whole question of terrorism. On the subject -of aerial hijacking, we have ratified both the. Tokyo and the Hague, conventions. We have signed the Montreal Convention, and legislation will be brought down as soon as it can be. prepared to enable us to ratify it. 
 1 have pleasure in presenting to the Senate the report of the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee on Australia's foreign aid. The report arises from a series of meetings held between March and October 1972 of a sub-committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs. In response to advertisements published in the Press 39 submissions were presented to the sub-committee by members of the public. At the 22 meetings, 12 of which were public evidence was taken from 34 witnesses representing the academic world, voluntary aid agencies and Commonwealth government departments. 
Honourable senators will find a number of conclusions and recommendations in the report. I hope that honourable senators will read those recommendations in conjunction  with the  background analysis in the main text  with a  view  to  apprising themselves further of  the  many complex issues involved  iri the  area of foreign aid. Senators will need no reminding  that the  views of  the  Committee  ยซre  not necessarily those of this Government. However, senators  may  be confident that  the  Government regards  the  report as a useful contribution to  the  general debate on aid and will consider seriously the valuable points arising from it. 
Ordered  that  the report be printed. 
The honourable senator has directed to rae a series of questions asking whether the Treasurer is aware of certain things.  I  will ask him and let the honourable senator know. 
I have not seen the statement by the Prime Minister. I shall find the answers for the honourable senator. 
If I have the question right, an editorial was published on Christmas Eve in China - I suppose it was not 
Christmas Eve up there, but it was in Australia - saying that Australia was to apply sanctions against Rhodesia-- 
The answer to the first 2 parts of the honourable senator's question is yes. I have explained on several occasions during the short period in which the Parliament has been in session that Canada has no official representation in Taiwan. Japan has an official arrangement. 
As I have explained several times, the history of Japan vis-a-vis Taiwan is quite different, from that of Australia vis-a-vis Taiwan. As I have explained several times, there - is no interference with travel between Australia and Taiwan and there is no interference with trade being carried on with Taiwan. 
As the Government has made clear on several occasions, both sides of the Taiwan Strait demand that countries make up their minds as to who they are going to recognise. They will not accept both countries being recognised. We have made up our minds, as have most countries in the world, to recognise the People's Republic of China. We do not have official contacts with Taiwan. As to the rest of the honourable senator's question, there is no let or hindrance over either travel or trade between Taiwan and Australia. 
 I do not know that we would be pinning our hopes on the proposed prices justification tribunal as the major weapon against inflation. We hope that it certainly will be a new and good contribution to the fight against inflation. Because of the legislative program I do not know when the legislation will be introduced. I could ask the Treasurer, but I doubt whether he would know exactly when it will be introduced. I will find out if I can for the honourable senator. 
Yes. The situation in regard to Rhodesia is that the present Government 'backed the United Nations decision, as did the previous Government. I do not quite follow what the article concerned has to do with the position just because it appeared in a Peking publication. I think that the honourable senator knows the situation in regard to the recognition of Communist China. I am sorry that I just cannot follow the question. 1 have seen an article in the 'West Australian'. 1 have seen some comments made by  Senator Sim  in the newspaper that tried to draw the analogy that, because we had recognised the People's Republic of China and because we had taken certain other actions, including action in regard to Rhodesia, in some way this was associated with the talks between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of Australia. Of course, that is absolute rot. Nothing like that was discussed, nor would it be proper for any 2 countries to discuss such things. The entire negotiations with the People's Republic of China dealt with the setting up of diplomatic relations, what would be the position in regard to properties in Australia and such matters. No government of any political colour - whether the previous Government of which the honourable senator was a supporter, our Government or any other government - would allow these other things to be imported into the discussions. 
You made some very silly comments in the newspaper about it. If that is the sort of thing-- 
-I am trying to help you. If that is the sort of thing you have in mind, let me put your mind at ease on it. If something was printed in the 'Peking Daily' then I point out that this Government does not interfere even with the Australian Press, and we are not going to start on the Chinese Press. 
I do not think an Australian Government should make a move concerning its relationships with another country on the basis of an editorial in a third country. 
1 did not note all of those questions asked by the honourable senator but 1 think 1 can assist him. Firstly, in relation to the last part of the question, there is no deteriorating situation between Australia and other countries. 

 - Senator Webster seems to know far more about the relationships between Australia and the rest of the world than I do. The other point raised by  Senator Kane  concerns 2 newspaper articles which I now have in front of me.  Senator Kane  asked whether these articles are damaging to relations between Australia and Thailand in the way our relations with other countries are alleged to have been damaged. Well, our relations with other countries have not been damaged. There has been no damage to relations between the Thais and the Australians. I did not have at the time the exact quotation to which  Senator Kane  referred the other day, but after he asked his question I did obtain a copy of the relevant section of 'Newsweek' which I will read. It consisted of a series of questions asked of and answers given by  Mr Whitlam.  The particular question and answer that is of interest to  Senator Kane  reads: 
What are your thoughts on the American presence in Asia? 

 Mr Whitlam said: 
My remaining fear is that the American forces in Thailand may produce a situation like Vietnam. American use of air bases in Thailand for operations against Vietnam has inevitably aroused the suspicions, and in fact the hostility of Hanoi against Thailand. The continued presence of American forces in Thailand would prolong that suspicion and hostility. 
That is the exact context of the article to which  Senator Kane  referred. I noticed that one of this morning's newspapers criticised this statement by  Mr Whitlam  and used that indelicate word which  Senator Kane  used. I think the relevant point here, as I understand it from glacing through the article - this was quoted in the Australian Press - was that  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The purpose of the continued American presence, agreed upon by Thai and American authorities, is to ensure that the Vietnam and Laos ceasefire agreements are implemented. 
That is the Thai reasoning for maintaining the forces there. I think  Mr Whitlam  was asked a direct question about the situation in Asia. The presence of Americans in Thailand is a matter for the Americans and the Thais. 
In that sense this is not of direct concern to Australia. But when one is asked a question such as this during an interview one expresses an opinion. After all, if we were to confine ourselves in debates here to the relations between Australia and other countries the debates would not be as full as they are. But is not the over-riding consideration that most honourable senators would not want to see another Vietnam? This was the context in which the Prime Minister was speaking. Also it was in the context that Thai bases were used by American bombers during the IndoChinese war. That situation has now changed, we hope permanently. The sort of thing which we want to see now that the cease-fire has taken place is a scaling down of all the military establishments and activity in that area. I would think that would be axiomatic. I do not think we want a cease fire and then have the same number of troops hanging around that area. 
Yes, all troops. In considering foreign policy and all its nuances honourable senators should use a broad vision not to try to turn it into a political battleground. If they did this perhaps they would understand the situation much better. Another point which  Senator Kane  makes is that suddenly there has been a radical departure. Surely nobody in Australia or any other country who has done his reasearch properly would expect anything else from a Labor Government when it came to office. We said that we would withdraw troops. The Opposition when in Government beat us to that. It withdrew them. We said that we would do everything possible to stop the Vietnam war and to see that the cease fire continued. Surely that was no surprise. To come to the last point raised by  Senator Kane,  I point out that Thailand and Australia have had and still enjoy tremendously good relations both politically and economically. There is no reason why this situation should be disturbed. The Thai newspaper has a right to say what it likes. It does not necessarily reflect the views of anybody except the writer. That is the situation with the Press in Australia and, as I understand it, in Thailand. I have been able to assist  Senator Kane.  I did not have these papers before me when he spoke the other day. As for the rest, that is my answer to him. 
I have a general approach to it because I took part in some of these discussions in January. The dates, however, I cannot confirm. I believe that $13. 5m is the correct figure though I do not know what period it is to cover. T think this was the tenor of the general discussion and that that was the amount of money it was considered Victoria would need. I remember that $250,000 was the sum promised for the special situation in East Gippsland because, I understand, of a prolonged drought there. As far as I know no special conditions are attached to it. I do not think that this is the type of grant to which special conditions would apply. Indeed I am sure there were no special conditions. I cannot give the exact dates but I think the matter was consummated in a letter from the Prime Minister in early to middle January, as I remember returning to Canberra after the Christmas break. As a result of having spoken to some people on this the other day I understand that no request has been received yet as to exactly how Victoria wants the money to be allocated. 
As I recall the Vietnam Peace Agreement, it made arrangements for the release of such prisoners within 90 days. As I understand it, it is not spelt out in every detail, but obviously the intention was that the 2 sides in South Vietnam would exchange lists of prisoners and start to release prisoners. The figure of 200,000 has been cited. I understand that it is thought by observers that this figure is far too high. In answer to a question asked the other day I think I said that already lists of the 27,000 people to be released have been prepared. There is a tremendous amount of interest in this matter all over the world. There are scores of people in Vietnam looking for different individuals. Recently  Senator Mulvihill  asked me about 5 people in whom an Australian group is interested. It is difficult to get specific information about individuals. 
The overall situation is that this is now an international agreement to which Australia is not a party. But even if Australia were a party to the agreement, we have to give the agreement a chance to work. This is one of the worrying things that is still coming out of the cease fire, and I am sure that the International Control Commission will be paying tremendously close attention to it. If there is not some movement by the end of this period of time, I am sure that the Commission will be informing the world of it. 
There is a certain amount of hypothetical matter in that question. Firstly, I am aware that the timing of this question has some relation to the event which is to take place in South Australia next Saturday. I suspected as much when  Senator Jessop  rose to his feet. I am not aware of the details of what is going on in the South Australian election campaign. As I understood him, the honourable senator put forward the proposition that any overseas capital coming into Australia for businesses in Australia would be against Labor policy. Of course, it would not. We have never said that there should be no overseas investment in Australia. What we say is that the money coming into Australia should be examined by the Australian Government to ensure that it will be good for Australia as well as for the participating company. 
I do not know whether the Government has any direct information about the interference of one country in the affairs of another, but a broad principle of government is that a country should not set itself up as a judge of other countries. That principle was carried out quite wisely by the previous Government and is adhered to by this Government. Australia does not set itself up as a judge on matters of aid or on its relationships with other countries, otherwise other countries would be sitting in God-like judgment of Australia, which is something to be avoided. Australia establishes relationships with other countries. It respects their sovereignties and their attitudes. When relationships break down there is a very serious position in the world. 
On 28th February a statement was made in another place by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  and was placed on the record in the Senate. It was a statement of considerable importance. The statement of the Minister for Defence marked the first occasion on which a government of this country had sought to place openly on the record a clear expression of the place of United States defence installations in Australia in terms of Australian national interests. It was the first statement by a government concerned to protect and develop Australia's interests, and determined to clarify the position of these installations in Australia. In less than three months Ministers have been able to review questions related to these installations. However, this is not a simple matter. It has not been simple because before we took office the Australian Labor Party, in Opposition, had been denied access to information about these installations. So the review we have made involved in the first instance our establishing what these installations did. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement is an important step, setting the record straight - an exercise in providing information about these installations. It has defined the terms on which we will be dealing with the questions raised by the presence of these installations. This will take some months at least. It will involve negotiation with the United States on some issues, particularly affecting North West Cape. It will involve our asserting a full and proper place for Australia in respect of management, operation and control of these installations, and ensuring that they serve Australian interests. It was proposed by the Opposition last night in another place not only that the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement should be noted and commended, but also that full benediction should be given to the situation existing at 28th February. That is not acceptable to the Government nor does it make sense. The situation existing at 28th February was that the  Deputy  Prime Minister had made a statement publicly and clearly, in a way that our predecessors had not, about the circumstances in which these installations had come to be in Australia and the  Deputy  Prime Minister had said what he had been able to do and what he intended to do to bring these circumstances into line with a proper regard for Australian interests, Australian sovereignty and Australian policy today. 
It would be meaningless in these circumstances to say that all the arrangements as they stood at 28th February were to the good of Australia, and entirely satisfactory to Australia, when the  Deputy  Prime Minister has so clearly stated that a number of matters are unsatisfactory. It is the Government's intention to take up those matters with the Government of the United States to ensure a proper Australian role in management, operation and control of the installations, and to ensure that their presence is or remains consistent with Australia's national interests. It may be of value and to the benefit of honourable senators opposite to say clearly that Australia does have national interests, in the defence area as in other areas, distinct from those of the United States. Our defence alliance with the United States is natural and reflects the breadth of our common interests in many fields. But this does not make our interests identical. The United States is a major power. It is a nuclear power. It has positions in relation to the Soviet Union, China, Japan and western Europe which cannot be adopted or shared by Australia. Australia is a middle ranking power in a multipolar world. It must stand on its own feet. 
The relationship we seek with the United States is one based on maturity and mutual recognition that each is equally an independent and sovereign state. If this is novel it is because for too long Australia has been understood to be an acquiescent, often subservient, partner. I have confidence that the United States not only will accept but will appreciate the opportunities this new relationship will offer for us both. What has the acquiescence of previous governments meant in respect of American defence installations in Australia? It has meant that agreements have been concluded, installations have been established and their presence has been justified publicly by our predecessors on the basis that what is good for America must be good for Australia. 
That policy was not good enough for Australia and was rejected. The policy of the Australian Labor Party in respect of United States installations in Australia has as its basis that each must be justified on the basis of an assessment of Australian national interests. They must at least be under joint control. They must mean no derogation from Australian sovereignty. There must be access to them for authorised Australians. 
These are the concerns to which the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement is addressed. These are the matters that will be under discussion with the United States. We expect to talk to Americans here, and the  Deputy  Prime Minister intends to take these questions up in Washington during the year. The previous Government's mystery about these matters raised public apprehension and suspicions. There has been confusion to the point that commentators have tried at times to link all the stations together into some bizarre and monolithic weapon system. 
It should be made quite clear what the specific concerns are that we are putting to the Americans. We are trying to put these matters on a clear and practical footing. We may take up all our concerns with the United States at one time, but it should be clear that the concerns we have about Pine Gap and Woomera are not the same as those we have about North West Cape. What are our concerns about Pine Gap and Woomera? The Deputy Prime Minister said: 
My concern has been to ensure not only that these installations do not conflict with our defence interests, but also that they contribute specifically to the improvement and development of Australia's defence system. To date, some measure of this has been accomplished by the following: Firstly, we have access to the installations so that we know what is being done there; secondly, there is joint management of the facilities and participation by Australian civilians and servicemen in their operation; thirdly, all data available to the United States Government from these facilities is available to the Australian Government; and fourthly, we have the right to use either or both systems to meet specifically Australian requirements. 
Notwithstanding these arrangements or opportunities for substantial participation, I am not satisfied that Australia has taken a sufficiently positive role in and share of the control of these installations in the past. I expect later this year, at a mutually convenient time, to visit the United States. When I go there, I shall further discuss these and other aspects of management and control of the installations with the United States Defense Secretary and his advisers. I believe that in these circumstances, should it be desirable, as I expect it will, we could expect that United States advisers would discuss the implications of these matters with officials in Australia. 
These are the sorts of questions we will be discussing with the United States. 
Pine Gap and Woomera are already joint installations. The agreements under which they are established make that clear. The joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap was established in 1966 under an agreement, Article 1 of which says: 
In accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement the Australian Government and the United States Government shall establish maintain and operate in Australia a facility for general defence research in the space field. 
Article 3 of the same agreement says: 
The facility shall be established, maintained and operated by the co-operating agencies of the two Governments and information derived from the research programs conducted at the facility shall be shared by the two Governments. These agencies are the Australian Department of Defence and the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) of the United States Department of Defense. 
That is a joint agreement. Pine Gap is a joint installation. The agreement remains in force for 10 years and thereafter until terminated on a year's notice. 
Our concern is that Australia makes full use of that agreement. Our concern is that the leaders of both sides of the Parliament should understand what goes on there. These are our objectives. 
The Joint Defence Space Communications Station at Nurrungar near Woomera was established under an Agreement in 1969 which states at Article 1 that: 
The Australian Government and the United States Government shall co-operate in establishing, maintaining and operating a joint space communications station in the vicinity of Woomera, Australia, together with support facilities, to support defence activities. 
Article 2 of that Agreement states: 
The station shall be established, maintained and operated by the co-operating agencies of the 2 Governments and information derived from the activities conducted at the station shall be available to the 2 Governments. These agencies shall be the United States Air Force and the Australian Department of Defence. 
The co-operating agencies may make arrangements to determine, among other matters, the financial, security, and other responsibilities of the appropriate authorities of the 2 Governments for participation in the establishment, maintenance, operation and manning of the station. 
Again, that is a joint agreement. Again, it will last for 10 years and thereafter until terminated by a years notice. Again, our concern is to ensure that Australia makes full use of the Agreement. In respect of both these installations - the Joint Defence Research Facility at Pine Gap and the Joint Defence Space Communications Station at Woomera - we believe that Australian sovereignty and the breadth of Australian defence interests and other national interests are not disadvantaged by their continuation. We have not been able to make a fresh start in considering these questions, lt should be clearly understood that the Agreements to which Australia is party in respect of these installations are international agreements. Agreements between Sovereign States, being binding as they are upon successive Governments, must be entered into with the greatest care and concern by Governments for the breadth of national interests of Australia over the term of such agreements. 
Every member of this Parliament is aware of the fundamental objection the Australian Labor Party expressed in respect of the terms and the nature of the Agreement for the establishment of the United States Naval Communications Station at North West Cape to which our predecessors made Australia party in 1963. That Agreement lasts for 25 years to 1988. It does not establish a joint project or a joint installation. Article 1 states that in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement, the United States Government may establish, maintain and operate a naval communication station at North West Cape in the State of Western Australia. Article 2 states that the Australian Government will acquire such land as is required for the purposes of the station. All land so acquired will remain vested in the Australian Government which will for the duration of this Agreement grant to the United States Government all necessary rights of access to, and of exclusive use and occupancy of, such land. Article 3 states: 
The 2 Governments will consult from time to time at the request of either Government on any matters connected with the station and its use, and that 
Except with the express consent of the Australian Government, the station will not be used for the purposes other than purposes of defence communication and appropriate Australian authorities nominated by the Australian Government shall at all times have access to the station. 
Article 4 states that the communications services of the station will be available to the Australian armed forces in accordance with technical arrangements made by the cooperating agencies of the 2 Governments. Article 5 states that at all stages in the construction and maintenance of the station, the maximum practicable use would be made of Australian resources. Arrangements for giving effect to this article were to be as determined from time to time by the 2 Governments. Article 6 states the Australian Government will, jointly with the Government of the State of Western Australia, appoint a Civil Commissioner at Exmouth, who will have such functions as those Governments may vest in him and will represent them in such matters as they may determine. Article 7 states that the United States Government will conform to the provisions of applicable Commonwealth and State laws and regulations, including quarantine laws and industrial awards and determinations, and United States personnel will observe those laws and regulations. 
The Agreement therefore says that the land on which this base is established is Australian. It says that Australian forces can use the communications services of this station, and they do. It says that Australian materials would be used in building the station. It says that Australia will have a Civil Commissioner there. He also represents Western Australia and the local council. It says that the United States will observe Austra'ian laws and regulations including quarantine laws and industrial awards and determinations. But this does not make it a joint installation. 
Article 3, I would emphasise, makes provision for the 2 Governments to consult 'on any matters connected with the station and its use'. Those are the terms in the Agreement entered in the Australian treaty series, registered with the United Nations and placed for rubber stamping before this Parliament in May 1963. The Bill to approve this Agreement was introduced in this Parliament on 9th May. It passed the third reading stage in the Senate on 23rd May. But Article 3 of that Agreement and provision for consultation on 'any matters connected with the station and its use' does not apply in any real sense in that form. 
Two days before the Agreement was signed. 2 days before it was placed before this Parliament under a Bill to approve it, the provisions of Article 3 were undercut by an exchange of letters between the United States Ambassador and the Australian Minister for External Affairs at the time,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. On 7th May 1963 the United States Ambassador wrote as follows to the Minister for External Affairs: 1 enclose a copy of my memorandum of our conversation of today concerning the construction of Article 3 of the VLF Agreement. Whereas this construction is not intended to restrict the Government of Australia's right of consultation, it is intended to spell out clearly that consultation does not carry with it any degree of control over the station or ils use. 
IF this is in accordance with your understanding, 1 would appreciate you so indicating. 
The Ambassador's memorandum of conversation read as follows: 
After a full and complete discussion regarding consultation on use of the station with Minister for External Affairs, il was clearly understood thai consultation connoted no more than consultation and was not intended to establish Australian control over use of station nor to imply any Government of Australia design to restrict at any time United States Government use of station for defence communications, including, for example, communications for Polaris submarines, lt is also understood that it was not intended to give Australia control over or access to the contents of messages transmitted over the station. 
The Minister's reply was contained in a letter of 7th May to the Ambassador. It read: 
Thank you for your letter of today's dale enclosing a copy of your memorandum of our conversation concerning the construction of Article 3 of the Agreement concerning the Naval Communication Station at North West Cape. 
Your memorandum is entirely in accordance with my understanding. 
The Agreement lasts until 1988. An agreement restricted in this way would not have been made by a Labor government. It was a derogation from Australian sovereignty which ought to have been unacceptable to any Australian Government. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has said that the Government will negotiate with the United States for the application of the actual terms of the Agreement. 
In response to our approach, that is, the approach of the first Australian Government to seek consultations under Article 3 and to seek the restoration of Australia's interests in this matter, the United States has told us that it is willing to enter into consultations and that it is prepared to make North West Cape a joint installation. We already have the desirability of this under study and this will be an aspect of the discussions we will be having with the United States in coming months. 
They will be discussions between members of a defence alliance - ANZUS. That alliance is of benefit to Australia not only in the long term eventuality of some possible attack on Australia, for which there is provision in Article 4 of the Treaty, but also right now in terms of Article 2 of the Treaty. Article 2 of the Treaty states: 
In order more effectively to achieve the objective of this Treaty the Parties separately and jointly by means of continuous effective self help and mutual aid will maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack. 
This has considerable practical benefit for Australia. Moreover, there is nothing in the ANZUS Treaty which would make the relationship an unequal one. lt is a relationship of defence co-operation between friendly, independent and sovereign states. It is on the basis of friendship, independence and an abiding concern for Australian sovereignty that the outstanding matters in relation to United States defence installations in Australia will be discussed with the United States Government. 
I understand that it is the position. I do not know specifically. As to the latter part of the question, no, I do not think that General Franco is an undercover communist. 
There has been no exchange of diplomatic representation on a permanent basis between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China. 
This matter does not come within my portfolio. I ask the honourable senator to put the question on the notice paper and I will obtain the answer for him. 
Yes. The Prime Minister, in his policy speech and prior to that, indicated that it was time the 3 tiers of government were given the opportunity to carry out their correct role in Australian life. Legislation is under consideration at the moment which, as  Senator Gietzelt  suggests, will give local governing bodies or such regional bodies the opportunity to make claims before the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
 I am not going to make any comment on the responsible attitudes of the Commission; I think that would be gratuitous. I hope the honourable senator did not mean what he put in the way that he put it. The question of the economic capacity to pay is one of the criteria considered by the Commission. I do not know what evidence the Government will be putting before the Commission. If I find out anything I will certainly let the honourable senator know. 
1 do not have those figures al my fingertips. I ask the honourable senator to put his question on the notice paper and I will get an answer to it for him. 
I suppose the honourable senator is referring to the Prime Minister's visit to Papua New Guinea and Indonesia recently. There has been some Press publicity about the whole question of regional development in the South East Asian and Pacific areas. This is a subject of conversation and talk between a lot of countries in the area. The situation is that the Association of South East Asian Nations, which has been a success and which is loudly applauded by this Government, is discussing the question of enlarging its own membership. That is its business. The Association envisages, when it can be arranged and if they are willing to come into it, the 4 Indo-China States and very possibly Burma joining the Association. But at the same time the honourable senator must realise, as everybody does, that now that the People's Republic of China is being recognised in the area, and now that Hanoi is being recognised in the area, the situation will arise where other voices in the whole area will have to be heard. Nobody expects that the expansion of ASEAN will be fast, because of the situation that I have just mentioned about other countries being invited to join it, and nobody suggests that giving a voice to the people outside ASEAN will be fast, either. 
In answer to the honourable senator's specific question, there is no formulation of policy on this matter. It would be far too early for anyone, let alone Australia, to be talking about any country at all. This is a thing that will develop or not develop as the months roll by. But the point is that everybody is realising the facts concerning what is happening in the area. These sorts of subjects are being talked about on unofficial levels, not only by Australia but also by countries throughout the Asian area. The fact is that when it was discussed with  President  Suharto he welcomed the talks on the general level of what might happen in this area in the months to come. 
As the honourable senator well knows, the Commonwealth Grants Commission is an independent body, and its independence must be maintained. When 1 used the word 'regional' I meant to convey that such areas will make the decision. The legislation has not yet been prepared; but, as I understand it. every little municipality, road board or shire in Australia will not be presenting its case to the Commission. That is my opinion. 1 do not want to pre-empt the way in which the Grants Commission will carry out its duties. The Grants Commission is one of the success stories of Australia. A document for which I have looked every year is its annual report, which I think is a thesis in itself. What will happen is that the legislation will make it possible for the Grants Commission to carry out what is envisaged in the Prime Minister's policy speech and in the Governor-General's Speech: that is, that the third tier of government will have some access to the Commission. Not only are we trying to equalise States but also we are trying to equalise areas within Australia. Whether the Commission will consider regions or individual bodies I do not know. I think it will be necessary to look not only at regions but also, sometimes, at some of those individual bodies which will be speaking on behalf of regions. This is a matter for the Grants Commission. I do not want to see it get away from the system under which it has worked and the independent position which it has held over the years. 
 As I thought I made clear in my previous answer, I have no knowledge of this matter. In my job as Minister assisting the Prime Minister I do not sit in on everything brought before the Prime Minister. What happens is that there is a division of duties, and this is the only sensible way in which one can carry out an assisting role. This is done in the Department of Foreign Affairs where certain duties are allocated to me, and a similar system obtains in the Prime Minister's Department. All communications between States and the. Commonwealth are on a Premier to Prime Minister level, and 1 suggest that is as it should be. If the honourable senator is really interested in this matter I will try to get some information for him and transmit it to him. 
I lay on the table the following documents: 
Particulars of proposed provision for additional expenditure for the service of the year ending 30th June 1973; and 
Particulars of proposed provision for certain additional expenditure in respect of the year ending 30th June 1973. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
The question is directed to me in my capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. I will pass it to the Treasurer to see if any information I get can help  Senator Cotton. 
Instructions were given soon after the present Government came into office for this matter to be put to a study. My information is that the Government should soon know the results of that study. 
DEFENCE: Fill AIRCRAFT 
I ask for leave to give notice of a motion relating to days and hours of sitting. 
 I thought that  Senator McManus  made the situation plain. The suggestions were that the Government would stop trade and stop people travelling and all the rest of it. The words I used in regard to trade were that it would continue without let or hindrance from the Australian Government and that there would be no interference with people travelling in a private capacity. It is very clear from an answer that I gave yesterday, and it is well known and recognised, that the countries on both sides of the Taiwan Strait demand that you recognise one country or the other. They will not tolerate recognition of both countries. I know of no country in the world that recognises both the People's Republic of China and Taiwan. 
Australia had to make a decision. Together with most countries in the world, we recognised the People's Republic of China. Having done that, surely it follows that Australia does not recognise the Taiwanese claim to rule the whole of China. Having recognised the People's Republic of China it is very clear that we will not recognise teams of people posing as coming from a country that governs the whole of China if they do not come from the People's Republic of China. We told members of the judo team that they could come to Australia providing they did not hold themselves out, by implication, as coming from Taiwan and from a country governing the whole of the Chinese people. 
Firstly,I did see the document to which  Senator Cotton  referred, but I do not remember seeing that quotation. I do not agree that the situation has worsened so much. As I understand it there was an inflationary situation which was caused largely by a Budget that was tuned more to politics than to economics. There was also a situation of unemployment which had a very related effect. That situation we are attacking considerably. Unemployment has always been a situation which the Australian Labor Party would never tolerate. We will apply ourselves to that situation above all others. 
What  Senator Poyser  has put is the situation. As I have said - I have used the phrase several times - both sides of the Taiwan Strait demand that recognition be accorded to one or the other. The consistent claim of Taiwan has been that it has the legal and proper government of the whole of China. To that extent it admits that it is a province. I suppose, although I have never seen the phrase used, that the Government of Taiwan is virtually a government in exile. It has been in exile so long that I do not think anybody really believes today that it will lead troops across the Taiwan Strait to recapture anything. I turn now to the comparison with Canada. I do not like making comparisons in these situations. The position is that neither Taiwan nor the People's Republic of China would allow Australia or any other country even to try to recognise both, if it wanted to do so. 
This is a confused question ranging from Hanoi to China. The first part of the question relates to some Press conference and I cannot help the honourable senator in that regard. The situation, as I have explained already on several occasions in this place, is that we have set up diplomatic relations with Hanoi because our ambition is to see, one day, a peaceful and united Vietnam. The 2 governments in Vietnam have undisputed control over a very large section of their countries. Because of that, as other countries are doing - we are not moving alone on this - we have recognised North Vietnam. It is valuable that we set ourselves up there very early. I do not see any point in waiting especially as the job of rehabilitating both North and South Vietnam and the rest of Indo-China will be a tremendous job. Most countries are already giving attention to this matter. Our attitude to aid is that it will be given to the whole of Indo-China when that is possible. At the moment it is not possible to help the Khmers in the way we would like to help because they have not been able to control their own affairs. That is one of the reasons why we moved in so quickly. 
The fact is that many nations are recognising the facts of life. For too long governments have been dividing the world in accordance with their own prejudices and ideologies. They have drawn a line saying that they will put all the bad people behind it and that all of us good people will sit on the other side of the line. The Vietnam war and the turmoil and trouble came out of that situation. That could have been avoided with a much more enlightened policy. 
 Senator Negus  refers to McCamey's Monster. This is a very large ore deposit which so far bes not produced any iron ore. When I inspected the place I was told that about S4m had been spent merely on sampling so that when they come to sell the product the samples will be there and they will be in a much better position to sell the iron ore. That is a normal technological process. The iron ore situation has had some ups and downs, particularly last year. I wish the honourable senator would stop waving that paper at me. 1 do not know whether he wants to buy the iron ore. Last year because of the situation in Japan some of the contracts had to be dropped down. I am not aware of what Japan might do. The Japanese do not confide in me what they are going to do over the next few months, few minutes or few years, so I do not know. I will put the question to the Treasurer. If anything comes out of it which will assist  Senator Negus,  a fellow Western Australian, then I shall certainly pass it on to him. 
I have seen references to the Comalco matter. No, 1 think it would be most unwise to go back to the prerevaluation situation. In any such circumstance one will always find people presenting a situation into which they have got themselves. I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer to see whether there are any helpful suggestions that I can get for him. 
The question was based on the false premise that there was confusion in Taiwan and Japan. There is no confusion because of representations to and dialogue with those 2 countries. Japan already is trading with China. The suggestion was that the trip be enlarged and that the mission go not only to the People's Republic of China but also to the other 2 places. I will put the suggestion to  Dr Cairns  and the Government for consideration. 
Firstly, the Prime Minister did not give any advice, gratuitous or otherwise, to Thailand. As I pointed out the other day, he gave an interview to 'Newsweek' magazine regarding the whole general situation in that area. In referring to that situation, he said 'that he would like to see a scaling down and was worried that the presence of American aircraft and troops in Thailand could have an effect which might produce something like the Vietnam conflict. That is what he said. He did not offer advice to Thailand. I made it very clear the other day that what Thailand and the United States of America do is completely a matter for the Governments of those countries and not for any other government.  Senator DrakeBrockman  is shaking his head. Is he saying that it is not? If he thinks it is not, he should say so. I think that it is a matter for those  2  countries. But as I said, surely nearly everybody in this place does not want to see the Vietnam war break out again, nor do we want to see a situation develop which might lead to that. This was a comment made by  Mr Whitlam  which is made quite clear if ona reads the 'Newsweek' item. 
As to the other question, as to whether I know of these things, I state that I have heard rumours of them from time to time. I do not officially know. I saw a comment In the newspaper article to which reference has been made here that the Thai newspaper had said that Hanoi was interfering with Thailand's internal situation. The situation is that we do not agree that anybody should interfere with the rights of anybody else. But I am making no comment on that because I do not know and I think that it is very unwise foi any government to start criticising and telling other governments how to nin their own business. 
The Taiwanese officials were not deported. As a matter of fact, some of them were allowed to stay. The Department of Immigration looked at the criteria that it applies, and some families and some diplomats were allowed to stay. The others left Australia because their work as diplomats here had ceased. I regret that I did not answer the question previously but the honourable senator will remember that he asked his question in 2 parts. I concentrated on the first part and omitted to answer the second part. I apologise for that. 
The first matters raised by  Senator Wright  were statements of fact. Yes, the Taiwanese Government obviously has strong control of the island of Taiwan. The first question  Senator Wright  asked me was: What was the criterion? I would say that that is one of the criteria, and an important one, for recognition but it is not just as simple as that. This matter is not in our hands. I repeat that both Taiwan and the People's Republic of China will not accept recognition from countries, and if the honourable senator is interested I have here a list showing that not one country recognises both Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. The Taiwanese Government claims to be the legal government of the whole of China and does not accept that its people are on the island of Taiwan indefinitely. It says, and keeps repeating, that one day it will return to the mainland and that its 15 million people will finally control the other 700 million. When it comes to recognition, every country is forced to make up its mind according to the dictates of the governments of both Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. We were put in that position and we made our choice. 
No. Our Ambassador has not taken up duty in Peking. At present we have a Charge d'Affaires there. This is a matter for the Australian Government. I cannot give any guarantee that we will or will not do so, or what subjects will be discussed with other countries, including the People's Republic of China. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring forward legislation to lower the franchise age and the age of candidature to 18 years for Federal elections. At present, the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides that persons who are not under the age of 21 years are entitled to have their names placed on the roll and, when enrolled, to vote at elections for senators and for members of the House of Representatives. However, under a special provision, a member of the defence force serving in a war zone outside Australia, who is under 21 years of age, is entitled to vote at a Federal election. 
This is a historic occasion - an occasion,  Mr President,  too long delayed. This Government when in opposition endeavoured to extend the democratic right of the franchise to the youth of Australia. Private members' Bills were introduced and debated at length in the House of Representatives in 1968 and 1970 and in the Senate in 1972. The LiberalCountry Party Government declined to bring these Bills to a vote. It preferred to deny this well recognised democratic right to an important section of the community - the youth of this country - although the franchise for those 18 years and above is well recognised throughout the world. I am delighted that the privilege of introducing these historic measures in this chamber - of rectifying this denial of natural justice - has fallen to me and that it is one of the first legislative acts of this Parliament. 
The reasons why the Labor Party attaches such importance to this legislation were summed up in the most pertinent way by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when, as Leader of the Opposition, he spoke on the second reading of the Adulthood Bill, which was introduced by him on 21st November 1968. The Prime Minister said: 
By any standards men and women are as mature at 18 years now as they were at 21 only a generation ago. They are more mature intellectually, physically, socially and economically. They stay at school longer. They go on to tertiary and technical education in much greater numbers. They are physically bigger, stronger and healthier, They conduct themselves with greater aplomb. Their consumption in all respects is greater. They make their presence felt and their ideas known much more readily. They appear in the mass media and respond to them. They attend the theatre and perform there. They practise a knowledge of the performing and plastic arts at a much younger age than men and women did a generation ago. Psephologists, psychologists and  politcal  scientists, asset - as a result of their investigations - that people are as mature, articulate and informed in their political views now at 18 as they are at 21 years of age. As far as can be determined they are as informed al 18 years of age now, as they used to be a generation ago at 21 years of age. 
These facts are undeniable. The Prime Minister's statement is even more valid today than it was at the time it was made. This Bill, therefore, symbolises the commitment of the Labor Government to the youth of this country - to a new Australia of equal, political, social and economic opportunity for all. It recognises in the only tangible way that those who accept responsibilities to the community should enjoy an appropriate status. At 18 years of age young Australian men and women may - or soon will be able to - enter into contracts, dispose of property, take and defend legal action, drink, drive a motor vehicle, marry without parental consent, and under the previous Government could be called up for military service. Thousands of them pay taxes. Their status as full citizens of Australia will now be properly and legally recognised. 
There is a world-wide trend towards lowering the age of majority. In the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States of America and the Federal Republic of Germany the franchise age is 18 years. Indeed, some 53 countries have adopted a franchise age of less than 21 years. That Australia has not fallen into line long ago with the trend in these countries remains one of the regrettable features of the policy of the previous Government. It is absurd and anomalous that persons in the 18-20 year age group are able to vote at some elections and not at others. The Prime Minister wrote to all State Premiers in December 1972 advising them that the Commonwealth Government would lower the franchise age for all men and women to 18 years early in the sittings of the new Parliament. The position with regard to the franchise in the 6 States of Australia is as follows: South Australia and Western Australia have enacted legislation to reduce the voting age to 18 years; New South Wales passed legislation in 1970 lowering the franchise age to 18 years but the Act has not yet been proclaimed; in Victoria a Bill to lower the franchise age has been passed by the lower House and is likely to become law shortly, thus enabling the 18 to 20 year olds to enrol in time to vote at the State elections which, 1 understand, are expected to be held about the middle of this year; the Queensland Cabinet approved the lowering of the franchise age to 18 years but the Government deferred consideration pending information as to the Commonwealth Government's intentions; in Tasmania a Bill which included the lowering of the franchise age was passed by the Lower House of the last Parliament. 
Honourable senators will be aware that, under the provisions of section 41 of the Constitution, no adult person who has or acquires the right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall, while the right, continues, be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting at elections for either House of Parliament of the Commonwealth. The franchise age question came before the High Court of Australia last year. The High Court decided that under the terms of section 41, adult person' meant a person not less than 21 years of age. However, it was made clear by the High Court that the way was open for Parliament to extend the vote to 18, 19 and 20-year-old citizens by legislative action. 
The Bill before the Senate contains transitional provisions which are designed to exempt the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds from the compulsory enrolment provisions of the existing law within the period of 3 months from the date of commencement of the lower franchise age. This period is considered necessary in order that appropriate publicity might be given to the entitlement of the newly enfranchised persons and to provide them sufficient time to become acquainted with their entitlements and obligations before the compulsory enrolment provisions are applied. Of course, any person who turns 21 years of age during the 3 months period will automatically come under the compulsory enrolment provisions upon 21 just as he would at present. The Bill provides that the proposed amendments will come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation and efforts will be made with the respective joint roll States - other than South Australia - to fix a common date from which the lower franchise age will operate for Commonwealth and State purposes. In South Australia the 18-year-old franchise has been operative for State elections since June last year. 1 now turn to that part of the Bill which deals with the lowering of the age for candidature. As honourable senators may be aware, the age qualification for candidature at Federal elections has been coincidental with the minimum age for enrolment and voting since federation and the Government takes the view that there is no logical reason to depart from the uniform age practice under Commonwealth electoral law. We believe that, in conjunction with the extension of the right to vote at 18 years of age, young people of this age should also have the right to nominate for election, if they so choose. They already enjoy this privilege for South Australian House of Assembly elections. 
Accordingly, the Bill proposes an amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which will have the effect of bringing the age qualification for candidates into line with that proposed for enrolment and voting. The age for candidature for Australian Capital Territory House of Representatives elections is governed by the Australian Capital Territory Representation Act and a separate Bill will be introduced to amend that Act. Separate legislation is not required in respect of age for candidature for Northern Territory House of Representatives elections as this matter is covered by the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act proposed by this Bill. 
This Bill is one of the most far-reaching reforms within the Australian political community for generations. Although the distribution of 18 to 20-year-old persons is not yet available electorate by electorate, the Commonwealth Statistician estimates that there are almost 700,000 young Australian men and women in this category - all of whom will be entitled to the franchise under this measure. In consequence, at the next Federal elections a wider and more representative Australian electorate will choose their political leaders. In his policy speech, the Prime Minister proclaimed to the nation that the 3 goals of  a 
Labor Government would be: Firstly, to promote equality; secondly, to involve the people of Australia in the decision-making processes of our land; and thirdly, to liberate the talents and uplift the horizons to the Australian people. 
With this measure we make a significant advance towards these goals. We commit this Government, this Parliament and this nation to ensuring that the views of the young people are listened to and are properly understood and considered by the Parliament. In so doing we hope to remove one of the causes of discontent from the past. Our young people will be inevitably involved in the political life of the nation and will be able to divert their creative energies and enthusiasm to a better Australia. This Bill indeed deserves the support of all senators, and I commend it to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The franchise age for the Australian Capital Territory is governed by the relevant regulations but the purpose of this Bill is to lower to 18 years the candidature age for House of Representatives elections for the Australian Capital Territory. It is proposed to repeal section 5 of the Australian Capital Territory Representation Act and to amend section 7 of that Act. Section 69 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which specifies the age qualification for candidature, is applicable to House of Representatives elections for the Australian Capital Territory and the amendment of that section proposed by the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I introduced earlier this day will have effect in respect of House of Representatives elections in the Australian Capital Territory. The amendments proposed by this Bill will therefore bring, the age qualification for candidature for Australian Capital Territory elections into line with the age qualification for candidature for Senate elections and for House of Representatives elections in the States. The figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate that the number of 18, 19 and 20-year- olds in the Australian Capital Territory at the time of the 1971 census was 8,950. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That  the  Bill  be  now  read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Northern Territory (Administration) Act to bring the age for candidature for elections of members of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory into line with the candidature age of 18 years proposed for Senate and House of Representatives elections by the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1973. 
The Northern Territory (Administration) Act is administered by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who is represented in this chamber by my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  but, as the subject matter of this Bill is related in part to the subject matter contained in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I introduced earlier, my colleague felt that it would be appropriate for me to introduce this Bill also. 
The lowering of the age for candidature for Northern Territory Legislative Council elections to 18 years is a natural consequence of the adoption of that age for candidature for election as a member of this House. The lowering of the age for enrolment and voting for both House of Representatives and Legislative Council elections in the Northern Territory will be achieved by amendments of the 
Northern Territory Electoral Regulations. The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that at the time of the last census there were 4,362 persons resident in the Northern Territory in the 18 to 20-year-old age group. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
In the absence of  Senator Murphy  I must say that I have no knowledge of the matter which the honourable senator has raised. I ask him to put the question on notice and I shall ask  Senator Murphy  to get an answer for him. 

 - Mr President, could I give some further information to  Senator Mulvihill?  I told him that I would seek further information for him. 
I do not know what the latest position is. I will try to find out and let the honourable senator know. 
As I understand it, this question is based on a Press report. I do not know the validity of this. I shall make some inquiries and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
I have no knowledge of what happened on an Australian Broadcasting Commission television program. If the honourable senator will leave the question with me I will make inquiries and give him an answer to it. 
The honourable senator asked first whether  I  was aware of the purpose of windows.  I  understand their purpose to be as described by the honourable senator, that is, to allow air and light to enter premises. Perhaps this question should have been addressed to you,  Mr President,  and that an investigation should be made of Parliament House to see what the position is here. The next question was on the subject of health. The honourable senator asked whether windows should be left open.  I  am personally in favour of their being open. However,  1  do not know what the attitude of various health departments would be in relation to premises which have air conditioning. It is my understanding that there is a requirement in the Australian Capital Territory for alternative fire escapes, but  1  am unable to comment on the situation in Brisbane where it is a matter for the State authorities. The honourable senator asked whether  I  agreed with certain propositions. In this part of the question he was asking for an opinion and  I  suggest,  Mr President,  that you would prevent me from expressing opinions. 
Speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister, I seem to remember that yesterday the Special Minister of State answered an identical question. I recall  Senator McManus  having put a question like this. I think the honourable senator has rather stretched the answer to his question. I will repeat the answer once again, for about the fourth time I think to  Senator McManus  and the second or third time to others. The situation is that people can travel to and from Taiwan; trade people can go to and from Taiwan. But we recognise the People's Republic of China and therefore we do not accept people coming from Taiwan and claiming to represent the Government of China or putting themselves in an official position. 
SenatorWILLESEE - If they come as a sports team, they cannot call themselves the representatives of a government of any particular country or use any of the names that we have suggested. That is the agreement and those are the rules that the Government has laid down. Obviously,  Senator McManus  does not agree with them but I am afraid that is the fact. 
That is a fact. I would not have had this knowledge except that during the debate last night I was busily gathering all sorts of papers. From the papers I have now, what  Senator Gietzelt  has said is correct. 
No. I have just explained that I had these papers last night. It would have been remiss of me if I had not. 
Unfortunately  Senator Jessop,  as always, has to throw something at the South Australian Government. I think I can say that whatever the difficulties or advantages of South Australia having that Government, it will be there for another 3 years; so the honourable senator had better become used to it. 
I remind the honourable senator that he has already asked his question. I know that he does not particularly like the democratic system, but he will just have to put up with it. 
I shall have to obtain a reply in relation to the question about the meeting in relation to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. It will be held towards the end of the year, I think in September. The honourable senator asks whether the Government will make a statement about the impact on our trading partners. I shall refer that to the appropriate Minister as I shall the question about the duty of 25ic per lb on greasy wool. I was asked yesterday about the trade mission to the People's Republic of China and I said I would pass the question on for consideration. But general guidelines have been laid down. The only connections with Taiwan will not be of an official nature. I think that will prevent the mission from going to Taiwan. 

 Questions 

In the question asked of &lt;me yesterday it was suggested that a visit to Japan be included. The same situation does not apply in relation to Japan so I will obtain an answer to that question. I think that when an answer comes back in relation to Taiwan - about which  Senator Hannan  specifically asked - we will find that the tour will not be extended because of the guidelines which the Government has laid down. The Government will not have official representation with Taiwan but individuals who want to travel there may do so. 
As we are all aware, the Senate will not sit next week. Orders of the day Nos 1 to 8 - Government Business - are all Bills which I anticipate, as a result of discussion with  Senator Withers,  will not occupy a great deal of time. Nonetheless they are important. I understand that a group of repatriation Bills provide for a certain commencing date. Of the electoral Bills one, that relating to a reduction of the voting age, is of particular urgency. The electoral officer in Victoria has contacted the Chief Electoral Officer in Canberra and has pointed out that an election will be held in Victoria shortly and that he has fixed 21st March as the date for compilation of the Victorian roll. In other words, Victoria is doing the same as the Commonwealth, and in Victoria, as in most of the States there being I think one exception, there is a common roll. The reason for the Commonwealth being able to collaborate with Victoria if possible is obvious; if the Federal electoral legislation is passed and the Parliament reduces the voting age to 18, there will be an opportunity for them to get together and to make a common roll for everyone. The will of the Senate will of course prevail, but if it is possible to pass these Bills, it would assist the Government. 
Then we would come to the situation at 8 o'clock tonight at which time  Senator Wright  wishes to proceed with his motion for the disallowance of the divorce regulations. I have indicated to  Senator Withers  that we would take the adjournment of the debate at that stage as  Senator Wright  will have argued why the regulations should be disallowed and we would like an opportunity to examine his argument.  Senator Withers  understands that. The debate would be continued at some future time. 
I did not take part in the discussion on this matter. As the Senate knows,  Senator Murphy  has been called away. As I understand the position, the effect of this action would  be  that if we take the adjournment of  Senator Wright's  motion  Senator Gair  would then want to proceed with Notice of Motion No. 1 which relates to the withdrawal of troops from South East Asia. Is that the situation? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to provide 2 additional exemptions from sales tax. Firstly, it will exempt contraceptives thus giving formal effect to the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 8th Decem- ber last year that the Government had decided that the sales tax on contraceptives would be removed as from that date. The exemption will accordingly have retrospective effect to 8th December 1972. Secondly, it will exempt certain goods used in the conversion of business and industrial equipment to the metric system. This exemption is being introduced following recommendations by the Metric Conversion Board for limited taxation concessions for the benefit of persons who are faced with the costs of converting items of plant and equipment to the metric system. Broadly, it will apply to parts and accessories used in converting existing items of business and industrial equipment to the metric system. 
Some industries have commenced the changeover to the new system and in recognition of this the tax exemption will apply to parts and accessories purchased on or after 1st July 1971. After the Bill has come into operation, persons who have already paid sales tax on metric conversion parts and accessories purchased on or after 1st July 1971 will be able to apply for refunds of the tax. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill in detail is being circulated for the information of honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
in reply - The situation is that all States with the exception of South Australia have compulsory voting. South Australia does not have compulsion because of its historical background. The absence of compulsion applies not only to the 18 to 20-year-olds. In all other States voting is compulsory. If the Commonwealth were to provide for voluntary voting it would be inconsistent with what is required by most of the States. 
 in reply - The Aboriginal people of Australia were brought onto the electoral rolls only a comparatively short time ago. An all-party committee had examined the situation and made recommendations which were accepted by the Parliament.  I  do not propose to go into the reasons for that being done at that time. The one exemption in the electoral Acts applies to Aborigines.  I  am not able to foretell the future, but from the spirit of the Acts  I  should imagine, without wishing in any way to intrude on the responsibilities of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  that the Government would want to move towards a situation in which Aborigines do vote and, in due course, exercise the same rights and responsibilities as anybody else. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 17. 
The situation is that we have already made an arrangement that the Notice of Motion in the name of  Senator Wright  will be brought on at 8 p.m. We have dealt already with my motion concerning Orders of the Day Nos 1 to 8 and if it suits the convenience of the Senate we will now go back to the Address-in- Reply debate which is Order of the Day No. 17. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Senator Bishop, I think, has laid the foundation of the Australian Government's attitude to this question. We have heard a fair amount of loose talk. The more I look at the wild statements in the motion, the more I believe that they cannot possibly be backed by any debate or any facts that can be brought before the Senate. Since the advent of the Labor Government it has been made tremendously clear throughout the world that there has been a change in Australia's stance on foreign policy, and this has been welcomed throughout the world. The fact that we have moved from a military stance has been welcomed. When one considers the countries in our region that we are talking about one asks why, having regard to their size, geographic position and history, they would want any of their friends insisting on a completely military stance. That is the last thing they could possibly want. 
What has to be realised, and what is tremendously important, is that we have lost peace in this area on so many occasions that it will be a standing disgrace to the countries in the area if we ever lose it again. That is the tremendous challenge that faces not only Australia and New Zealand and the ASEAN countries but the countries outside the  2  blocs or sections that I have just mentioned. We lost peace in  1954,  we lost a chance for peace again after the Korean war, and now we have this third opportunity which must not be lost. We lost peace twice in the field of military battle by insisting on the very things that the Democratic Labor Party and people like  Senator Sim  are insisting on tonight. That has led to failure. We are saying that it is time that another approach was made to this question. I do not think that either the DLP or those members of the Liberal Party whom I have heard speak on foreign affairs in the last  3  weeks realise the tremendous significance of the changes that have taken place in the world. They are still living in the cold war period when the  2  giants, the  2  super-powers, were glaring at each other across the globe. It was required of small nations and of middle sized nations to line up and be counted so that they were then on one side as the goodies or on the other side as the baddies. Thank heaven, that situation has changed. 
We. have a situation in our area in which we do not have to look over our shoulder at Russia, or the United States of America. We have this multi-polar situation involving countries like the People's Republic of China, Japan, Russia, the USA and England. They are creating a multi-polar situation which gives within the region much more flexibility for countries such as our own, the Asian countries and the smaller countries throughout the world. It gives these countries, particularly in the region we are talking about tonight, much more manoeuvreability and much more flexibility. 
The Indonesians summed it up by saying that national resiliance is needed. This means that each of these countries has to be put in a situation in which it can stand on its own feet and make its own arrangements or negotiations or in which these countries can combine and do these things which it had been impossible to do since the end of the last war. If you talk to the representatives of these people you find that they are trying to grab at the position with both hands. That is why we see a combination such as ASEAN that started off in a very tenuous situation. It has grown in confidence into a situation in which the countries talk together very much more freely and very much more boldly than I think even they dared to think about in the early stages of their formation. 
The countries themselves are now talking about moving into a situation in which this organisation can embrace more people. Already they are looking to the forward situation in which they can take in the IndoChinese states and possibly Burma. They are not waiting for the Khmer Republic to join them. Its people are still not in a position to be talking like this. But the countries to which I have referred are throwing their arms wide open to receive, other countries. The challenge in this area is not the challenge of a thousand or so troops in Singapore. The great challenge in this area is, firstly, stability and, ultimately, peace. I suppose that 'peace* is  a  word similar to love in that it can be used in many ways. But we cannot get away from the fact that if ever we lose the peace in sufficiently large quantities, as we have, done in 2 world wars, there will never be any chance of rising from the degradation into which the whole world will be thrown again. It is stated in the motion that we will ultimately destroy the confidence of America. What we are talking about is the withdrawal of some troops - not all troops - from Singapore, perhaps 800 or 1,000 troops will be involved. The number of American troops in South Vietnam alone was 500.000. Do honourable senators opposite think that the Americans will quiver and quake because we make these arrangements because a sovereign government made it clear before it was ever elected that this is exactly what it would do? It becomes almost laughable when we start vo think about the situation. 
What has happened under the previous Government and what has to be destroyed by this Government and by other governments that want to see peace in the world is the practice of drawing lines around the world and saying that a country on that side of the line is a baddie and a country on this side of the line is a goodie. We hear criticisms in the Senate day after day by way of questions because the Government has recognised the People's Republic of China and the Government of North Vietnam. The phrase we used to hear for years about the containment of China is the very sort of thing that causes war. Could any power in the world finally contain 700 million people on one land mass? The proposition was never a goer at any stage. It was able to take some credence during the cold war period. Of course the final situation is that the whole world has come to its senses. 
When the Democratic Labor Party tries to blow up the fact that we are to reduce the number of troops in Singapore, the matter becomes a laughable proposition. Let honourable senators ask themselves for one moment: Would the ASEAN countries such as Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia. Thailand and the Philippines want Australia to be emphasising a military stance? None of them are great powers. Most of them are very small powers. Indonesia, because of its situation, its numbers, its tremendous wealth and the resilience of its people probably one day will become a great power. But most of the people sitting in the Senate chamber tonight will not be here when that takes place. 
These countries are a combination of small powers. Why in the world would they want their friends to be emphasising a military stance? The very thing they fear is military action. They know perfectly well that if a world war were to break out and the great powers were to move on them they would be annihilated. See their actions are designed to create a detente in this area which will make such a development impossible. The Democratic Labor Party has said that withdrawing some of our troops will cause all the other countries in the world to collapse - that New Zealand, the United Kingdom and America will be affected. The fact is that Lord Carrington, after his trip to Australia, said in answer to a question in the British House of Commons that the Australians were going to withdraw some troops, that the British would maintain their level of troops and that New Zealand would do the same. 
This has not been some sort of action taken off the top of our head. Our intention to take this action has been clearly demonstrated to the world, not over the last 6 months but over the 3 years before we were elected as a government. After we were elected as a government, we kept these countries fully informed of what we were doing. Because of that, there is no worry or kerfuffle in Great Britain, America or New Zealand. The contents of this motion and the whole of the way in which the members of the Democratic Labor Party and the Liberal Party talk indicate that all our relationships with these countries are based on military might - as though we have a great military might. What military might have we compared to countries such as Russia, China, the United States of America and Great Britain? 
DLP senators speak as if this represents the whole of our relationship with these countries. The fact is that defence aid is being given and will continue to be given to these countries. We have a co-operative system operating with these people. We are giving them technical assistance. We are acting in advisory situations and carry out joint exercises. We give them logistic support. Above all, we give aid which is much more beneficial and which is one of the greatest things that we do because of the number of people who train in Australia. This hierarchy of people who have trained in Australia move through the whole of the public service and the business community of Asian countries. For years, we have had 1,000 students from Singapore in Australia. At the moment, we have 6.000 Malaysian students in Australia. If discussions are held with representatives of departments in these countries, it will be found that you do not have to go very far down the line until you strike somebody who has taken a degree in Australia. Generally, the person will have attended a university in Melbourne or Sydney and, probably more than any other place, the university in Perth because of its accessibility to these people. 
Our aid to Malaysia alone is worth $30m. In Indonesia, you do not have to travel very far before you find aid of the first magnitude being carried out efficiently. The whole of the telephone system in Indonesia has been updated over the last 12 months under the supervision of an Australian Post Office engineer. Work on the Bogor water supply scheme is under the charge of Australian engineers. We have put in the minimum support, letting the people in the country do the work. We give advice and the initial aid. Do not honourable senators think that this aid is more important than military aid? They should not talk about a military presence in such countries when the very thing they fear is military action. 
Twice Australian troops have marched away to the other side of the world to support Great Britain in times of war. There was never any question, either before World War 1 or in between the 2 world wars where the sympathies of Australia lay. But did Australia have 1,000 troops based on the Isle of Wight, on the Isle of Man or in the south of England? Did we demand that those troops should be there to show that we were true? What difference would it make in the event of an armed attack? At the time that the Liberal-Country Party Government sent troops to Singapore, we were told in answers to questions and in a statement made by  Mr Gorton  who was the Prime Minister at the time that they were not there to stand up to military aggression from outside. Certainly, they were not there to deal with any internal aggression that could be a nationalistic movement. This remains the $64 question: What the devil were they doing there, if this is the situation? The Five Power Arrangements do not require that we should have troops in these areas. What these countries want and what they will get is the number of troops to do those things about which we have talked. lt has been mentioned that we are going to throw these people into peril. What sort of peril is involved when we are talking about withdrawing merely a handful of troops? The whole military stance is one that ought to be reversed and it is one that these countries welcome our reversing. We heard criticism when in the very early days of this Government we stopped throwing military aid into South Vietnam and there was a great cry to heaven. We were sending military aid into an area which was saturated with military aid; the people in the area could not use any more of the aid. The previous Government was withdrawing troops from South Vietnam, saying that it was trying to wind the war down, but at the same time it was sending military aid to South Vietnam. This motion is in some ways analogous to that. The Democratic Labor Party says that it wants troops in this area. Why? In case there is going to be a world war in which we all will be involved? In case there is going to be some internal insurrection, which the troops would not engage in anyway, because that is the sort of thing in which other countries will not get involved in the future? 
We are building up relationships by providing aid. In one year 6,000 students from one country and 1,000 students from another, who had been studying in Australia, returned to their own countries as the greatest ambassadors which Australia could send into these areas. These are continuing and lasting things. Tonight  Senator Sim  said: 'I do not believe that the five power pact is going to be of any permanency'. Whatever one might say about  Senator Sim,  one cannot say really that he is such a great radical. He said that statements made by some people in Australia irrevocably destroy our relationships with other countries. I remember criticism being levelled about 2 Manchester Jews. I assure the Senate that that did not destroy any relationship between Great Britain and Australia: it did not destroy any relationship between Manchester and Australia, and it did not destroy anything between Israel and Australia. In fact, it turned out that they were not Jews anyway.  Senator Sim  refers to a statement made by somebody and says that it destroys our relationship with another country. He can say these things, but I assure him, in case he feels uneasy about it, that the statement he made did not worry Manchester, it did not worry Israel and it did not really worry Australia. If you get these things into perspective you can see just how ridiculous one can get. 
What does the Democratic Labor Party expect? Does it expect that because we have stationed troops in another country, like the laws of the Medes and the Persians the position can never be altered; that there have to be X troops stationed in Singapore; that there have to be so many Mirages stationed in Malaysia; and that this is the way it has got to remain forever? It is because of this cold war attitude and because of the implacable, old fashioned attitudes that are inherent in this motion tonight that you have your Vietnams and your Koreas. Surely we realise today that because of the atomic bomb the possibilities of such wars are thus far diminished. Having reached this situation, what is to happen next? Do we want to go on with all these old military postures? I have heard the previous Government sabre rattling at Russia - a country of 245 million people, with one of the great land masses in the world, and spending more on a percentage basis on its military commitments than any other country. Australia with a population of 13 million people and spending a very small proportion of its income on military commitments is rattling a sabre at these people. That was the problem with the previous Government which unfortunately was backed by the DLP. I say 'unfortunately' because it could have had a balancing influence on the government of the day but very obviously it is going the full way in the field of foreign policy in a cold war atmosphere. 
Why does the DLP adopt this attitude? As I say, it is just leading on, not moving one bit away from the former situation. If there is one place in the world where you ought to be able to feel the change it is the South East Asian area. This is why we have an interest in this area. This is why almost weekly since the advent of this Government topline people have been coming from all around the world to visit Australia. You name the country and they are coming from it to Australia. If the members of the DLP are going to be blind to the changes that have taken place in this area, they will do so at their own peril. Firstly, they do not realise that colonialism died in South East Asia following the war. Every one Df the countries about which we are talking, except Thailand, has been under foreign control at some time or another, and the scars of it are fading slowly. At long last the People's Republic of China is being recognised by the world. It is coming out of its cocoon, and it was largely that country's own fault for being in that position. Japan is now one of the great, aggressively commercial countries. At long last the Vietnam war has finished. We will have to pour tens of millions of dollars of aid not into building up any regime but into patching up the wounded, putting them into hospitals where many of them will remain for the rest of their lives. We have to overcome the effects of carpet bombing and give light shelter in order to keep these people away from the elements. Basically this is how we have to move on our own in the Indio-China area. The situation in the Indo-China area, as far as Australia is concerned, will be just that. We are not going to be concerned whether the type of government of the man who is lying in hospital is a communist government or a right wing government or whether it is going to be some form of a coalition government. The person is going to be a person. It he needs aid, then to the limited extent that Australia can give it, we will do so. The amount of our aid is not great when it is compared with the aid given by the great powers. But we are going to be in there doing our little bit in order to establish that as a wealthy country in this area we do care, not about the regimes but about the people and the things that we can do for them. 
Honourable senators opposite are talking tonight as though all of the Asian countries are standing back, glaring at us with hatred. The fact is that they are agreeing with everything we do. They are talking about a zone of peace, freedom and security. We have told them God bless them, that we are with them 100 per cent of the way in their desire to bring that about. We are doing it not by interfering with them but by saying: 'Here is a fairly wealthy country that is slightly different from you, but we are in your area and we are here to assist and see that this happens, because if you go back to your Koreas or your Vietnams you may never get another chance for peace in this area.' This is the third time around and it must not be allowed to fail. These are the aspirations of these countries and these are the aspirations that we are supporting. 
It has been said that Indonesia's confidence will be destroyed if we take some troops out of Singapore. Let us think about that for a moment. Indonesia is a country of  120  million people who are shying away even at this stage from military pacts and who at long last have moved cautiously into co-operation with their neighbours. It is said that if we take  800  or  1,000  troops out of Singapore and bring them back to Australia this will destroy the confidence of Indonesia in Australia. Why we waste time in debating things such as this just beats me. The fact is that, excepting New Guinea, Indonesia is receiving more aid from Australia than any other country to which we are sending aid. We are working with Indonesia on defence co-operation. We are giving that country economic and technical aid. At the end of  Mr Whitlam's  visit to Indonesia, the  President  of Indonesia thanked  Mr Whitlam  for the exchanges of ideas and stated that what  Mr Whitlam  was talking about in the area was the very thing that Indonesia wanted. Then they come back to America again because this is the emotional issue. This is the follow-up. The previous Government got itself into trouble time and again, ably aided and abetted by the Democratic Labor Party, because at no stage did it examine the field of foreign affairs to see what should be done. it looked at foreign affairs and said: How can we win votes within Australia?' That Government finished up being the laughing stock of the world. It was dragged into Vietnam because its great partner, America, decided that it should go in. There was no other reason. We could never get the reason, but it stood out like a sore thumb that that was the reason. 
It has been up to this Government to state clearly and concisely the things we stand for. The fact that we have said that racialism has no part in our foreign policy has brought us friends throughout the Asian and African countries that we have not known for  25  years. We have heard a lot of claptrap here tonight. The fact is that  Senator Gair's  motion can be dismissed as old-fashioned scaremongering based on a completely unreal view of what the situation is throughout the whole of South East Asia. The Opposition parties do not realise the changes that have taken place. I suppose a couple of generations of Australians have been brought up hearing, asI did when I was a child, about the British 
Fleet. I did not know what it meant, but if anything happened the British Fleet would be there. The fact is that the only time Britain did try to help us with its fleet was at a time when Britain herself was heavily over committed and she sent the 'Prince of Wales' and the 'Repulse' and they never fired a shot. This was the myth. 
The first part was a legitimate question and I will find out the answer from the Treasurer. I ignore the rest of the question. 
On 6th March  Senator Sim  asked me a question without notice relating to formulae for the recognition of the People's Republic of China. I have obtained the information  Senator Sim  requested, which I now table. 
At the moment the Department of Foreign Affairs is asking our embassies to look at this question in relation to what might be termed residual obligations, and that of national service comes into this subject. We have asked them to report on the situation in the various countries and to see whether there is a possibility that people can renounce their former citizenship - this could be a way of doing it, or, if not. we will have a report on how it could be done. At present there is a warning placed on passports regarding this matter. So far this subject has not been finalised. All the answers have not been received. When they are a statement will bs made on it. 
I just want to say that I did not see the television program referred to. I have duties these days other than to watch television programs. However, 1 did hear about it and I remember something of the Auditor-General's report. J will refer the matter to the Treasurer in order to obtain the details. 
 Senator Cotton  has raised an interesting point. It arises because there are differing income years. Ours commences on 1st July; New Zealand's income year commences on 1st April. 
No, I am not aware of what the honourable senator has suggested. I will make some inquiries and let him know. 
This is an interesting idea. I shall pass it on to the Minister whom I represent. 
I have seen a report of a b ack ban being imposed on a French ship and I have also seen the report to which  Senator McAuIiffe  referred that there will be no more testing during the negotiations. It must be appreciated that in any international dealings, because of the request of both sides or one side, negotiations are kept at a very confidential level. But I can say that I agree with what the Prime Minister said at his Press conference yesterday that there is a clear understanding that the French will not proceed with tests while they are negotiating with the Australian Government. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
This Bill is a measure to give the force of law to 2 double taxation agreements. One is with Italy and applies only to profits derived from international airline operations. The other is with New Zealand and replaces the agreement concluded with that country in 1960. It covers all forms of income flowing between Australia and New Zealand. The 2 agreements were signed for the respective governments during 1972 but cannot take effect until the passage of enabling legislation. A comprehensive double taxation agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, which was also signed towards the end of 1972, is at present being considered by the Government. 
The limited agreement with Italy provides that each country is to exempt from its tax profits derived from international traffic by the other country's international airline. In effect, each country will have the sole right to tax profits from international traffic derived by its international airline in the other country. This is the basis for avoiding double taxation of airline profits recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation in order to spare international airlines the difficulties raised by the taxation in a number of countries of the profits from a single flight. 
It is the basis generally adopted in international double taxation agreements, whether of the comprehensive or the limited type, including Australia's existing double taxation agreements. Once in force the agreement will apply as from 1966, the year in which the possibility of entering into these mutually convenient arrangements was first discussed between the 2 countries. 
The revised agreement with New Zealand brings up to date the agreement concluded with that country in 1960. Basically, the revision was made necessary by changes since 1960 in Australian and New Zealand taxation laws but it also takes account of subsequent developments reflected in Australia's more recent double taxation agreements, notably those with the United Kingdom and Japan. In particular, the new agreement includes provisions that will resolve cases of unrelieved double taxation that have occurred under the 1960 agreement due to each country claiming to be the source of certain interest and royalty income. The relevant provisions require the country of residence to recognise the other country's source rules for the income years concerned. They will also prevent cases of this nature arising in the future- 
Provisions of the new agreement dealing with income such as business profits and shipping and airline profits will have substantially the same practical effects as those of the 1960 agreement. Other provisions of the new agreement were not included in the 1960 agreement but follow the same lines as corresponding provisions in Australia's more recent agreements. The tax which may be levied by the country of source on dividends remains generally limited, as in the 1960 agreement, to 15 per cent of the gross payment. Under new provisions broadly equivalent in scope to those in Australia's more recent agreements, a corresponding limitation will generally apply in relation to royalty income. The tax of the country of source on interest is to be limited to 10 per cent. The limitations will not apply to dividends, royalties or interest that form part of the business profits of a branch that a resident of one country has in the other country, or to interest payments between associated persons. 
The agreement introduces provisions that will resolve the residential status of persons who are regarded by each country as resident for taxation purposes under its own domestic law. It introduces a provision - now commonly adopted in double taxation agreements - which exempts certain payments from overseas sources to visiting students. It also includes usual provisions governing the taxation of visiting businessmen, teachers and professors, public entertainers, government employees and pensioners. 
Turning to the measures for the relief of double taxation that will apply as a result of this Bill, the country of residence will provide relief, by way of credit for the other country's tax, in respect of income that would otherwise remain taxable in both countries. Thus interest and royalties derived from New Zealand by residents of Australia, and in respect of which the New Zealand tax is limited to 10 per cent and 15 per cent respectively, will be taxed in Australia with credit being allowed for the New Zealand tax. Dividends from New Zealand received by Australian individuals will be eligible for a tax credit, while those received by Australian companies will remain tax free by reason of the rebate allowed on intercorporate dividends. Other income of Australian residents derived in New Zealand will be exempt from Australian tax if taxed in New Zealand. 
On assent being given to this Bill, the agreement with New Zealand will generally have effect in Australia from 1st July 1972, and in New Zealand from 1st April 1972. The agreement also has some back dating to cover the dual source interest and royalty cases that I referred to earlier. In addition, the agreement will continue - for income years commencing before it enters into force - any provisions of the 1960 agreement that give a result more favourable to a taxpayer than the new agreement does. A memorandum containing more detailed explanations of technical aspects of the Bill and of the agreements is being made available to honourable senators. I commend this Bill to the Senate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision to introduce legislation to repeal section 66 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959-1968 as soon as possible after the resumption of Parliament. Section 66 of the Act provides that the amount of a housing loan by the Commonwealth Savings Bank or the Commonwealth Trading Bank to an individual on credit foncier terms under pari VI of the Act shall not exceed 90 per cent of the bank's valuation of the property on which the loan is secured, or the prescribed amount - currently $9,000 - whichever is i he less. In practice all such credit foncier loans to individuals - that is loans where the principal and interest are repayable in equal periodic amounts - by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation are made by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
Repeal of section 66 will remove the present limitation of the bank's ability to determine flexibly and in the light of particular circumstances the maximum amount of a ci rd it foncier housing loan which can be made against the value of a property. The Commonwealth Savings Bank will then be on the same footing in regard to housing loans as the other savings banks subject to the Banking Act. which are not subject to any legislative constraints about the maximum amount of individual loans. The Bill provides for the repeal to come into force on the date of the royal assent. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for the appropriation of moneys for new and reconstituted departments as a result of the Administrative Arrangements Order of 20th December 1972. In addition, provision has been made for a further appropriation for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and for an increase in the level of the Advance to the Treasurer. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $56,050,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73, by $56,050,000. Due to such factors which I will explain it is expected that there will be savings of about $24.4m under previous appropriations which are no longer legally available. However, as a matter of law moneys appropriated by Parliament for specific purposes may only be used for those purposes and savings under appropriations no longer legally available cannot be utilised to reduce to a net figure the appropriations sought in this Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, sub-divisions and items set out in the Schedule to the Bill. 
The Appropriations sought for departmental salaries of $19,468,400 and administrative expenses of $10,731,600 arise from the establishment of new departments and the restructuring of existing departments under the Administrative Arrangements Order of 20th December 1972. It is expected that these expenditures will be offset by savings of some $24.4m in appropriations to departments now abolished or reconstructed. I should explain why the offsetting savings of $24.4m are so much less than the expenditures of $30. 2m proposed in the Bill. In the first place, there are no existing appropriations to cover the costs of the central offices of several new departments. Their expenditures, which amount to a modest $572,000 are, therefore, additional to the 1972-73 Budget figures. In the case of those departments included in the Bills which have taken over existing services it has been necessary to revise their expenditures and include provisions for existing and additional staff at the latest rates of pay and to provide for an increase in their administrative expenses. These amounts, estimated at $4.5m would normally be included in the additional estimates Bills to be presented to the Parliament in April. 
A further appropriation of $10,850,000 has been included in the Bill for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. Of this sum. $7,500,000 will be made available to the States to supplement funds already provided by the Commonwealth to cover expenditures in such fields as housing, education and health. The remaining $3,350,000 is for expenditure by the Commonwealth on its own Aboriginal advancement programs. Eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars of this has been allocated to legal aid for Aborigines. Provision has also been made for an increase of $ 15m in the appropriation for the Advance to the Treasurer. The Advance, for which $30m was provided in Appropriation Act No. 1, is to enable the Treasurer to make advances that will be recovered during the financial year or to make moneys available, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament or pending the issue of a warrant of the Governor-General specifically applicable to the expenditure. Twenty-five million dollars has already been issued out of the Advance to meet expenditures incurred, both before and after the Government took up office. Of this amount $10m represents advances made to departments to meet ongoing expenditure pending the passage of this Bill and will be recovered. This will leave $15m for commitments which have to be met before the appropriations from additional estimates become available towards the end of May. It is estimated that the requirements of civil departments in that period will be about $23m and, of Defence Departments, $8m. Details of these expenditures will be included in the additional estimates bills. 
Since the revised Administrative Arrangements Order came into effect necessary expenditures for the new and reconstituted departments on salaries and administrative expenses were, as a matter of practical expediency and with minor exceptions, charged to existing appropriations including those provided for departments which were abolished. This ceased at 28th February 1973. The Bill therefore includes clauses validating those expenditures which, for all legal and practical purposes, are deemed as expenditures for the services provided in the Second Schedule to Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1972- 73. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for the appropriation of moneys for capital works and services for new and reconstituted departments as a result of the Administrative Arrangements Order of 20th December 1972. In addition provision has been made for a special loan to New South Wales and for grants to the States for employment creating purposes. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $67,944,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1972-73 by $61,944,000. It is expected that the appropriations of $21,124,000 sought for capital works and services will be offset by savings of some $21,750,000 in appropriations which are no longer legally available. However, asI explained in relation to Appropriation Bill No. 3, it is not possible to utilise savings under an appropriation to offset additional expenditure in another. 
The appropriation of $15m for a loan to New South Wales follows an undertaking of the former Government to provide special budgetary assistance to that State. The provision of $31,820,000 for employment creating purposes will enable the States to proceed with approved projects in accordance with agreements reached with the Commonwealth. As with Appropriation Bill (No. 3) it has been necessary to include in this Bill a clause validating expenditures of the new and reconstituted departments since 20th December 1972 as expenditures for the services included in the Second Schedule to Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1972-73. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill brings together salaries proposals for members of Parliament including Ministers and office holders, judges, permanent heads of departments and statutory office holders whose salaries are related to First and Second Division salaries in the Public Service. I need not remind the Senate of the sorry history of salaries proposals for members of Parliament. Sufficient to say that when proposed in December 1971, salary increases were overdue and the proposals came at the end of wage adjustments for most other sectors of the community. The 1971 proposals, arrived at after the inquiry of  Mr Justice  Kerr, now Chief Justice of New South Wales, were not implemented. Members of Parliament have had no salary adjustments since 1968. The same goes for permanent heads. Judges, salaries were last adjusted in June 1969. The measure before the Senate, therefore, is more than timely. The legislation will, if approved, have the effect of amending the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1970 and the Ministers of State Act 1952-1971. 1 turn now to the detail of the Bill. The current salary for members and senators is $9,500 a year. In December 1971,  Mr Justice  Kerr proposed that the salary should be $13,000 and that there should be a further review soon after the next general election. We have now reached that stage and taking into account the trends over the intervening period, it is the Government's view that $14,500 per year is the very minimum to which the basic salary for members should be raised. Members receive electorate allowances designed to help them meet those costs which arise from the duties of their office. The Government's opinion is that the distinctions which have been made in the past between the electorate expenses of members representing city and country electorates and between members and senators are not justified. Accordingly, the legislation proposes that all members of Parliament - senators and members of the other House alike - should receive the same electorate allowance. The amount proposed is $4,100 - the amount recommended by  Mr Justice  Kerr for country electorates. 
Under the previous administration there were Ministers and senior Ministers. In addition to their salaries as members, senior Ministers received $10,500 per annum; other Ministers received $7,500.  Mr Justice  Kerr proposed that these amounts should be raised to $13,300 and $9,500. The Government has decided that there should not be this distinction between Ministers. We are also proposing that the ministerial salary should remain at $10,500 per annum - the amount paid under the former Government to senior Ministers. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister will also receive the same salary as his predecessor, $12,500 per annum.  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended that the Prime Ministerial salary should be raised to $27,000. The Government has adopted this recommendation. As far as the special allowance for Ministers is concerned, the legislation now before the Senate basically applies  Mr Justice  Kerr's recommendations. The allowance proposed for the Prime Minister is $10,900 per annum, for the  Deputy  Prime Minister, $5,200 per annum and for Ministers, $4,875 per annum. 
The amendments proposed to the Ministers of State Act will provide for an appropriation to enable the payment of salaries to members at the levels I have mentioned. I add that during the period before the swearing in of the full Ministry - that is, from 5th to 18th December - the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  received the same salary as they had received as Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, together with special allowances at the rates paid to their predecessors in ministerial office. Since the swearing in on 19th December, the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  have been paid the same salaries as were received by their predecessors. All other Ministers have been paid at the one salary level based on an equal apportionment of the remainder of the annual appropriation under the Ministers of State Act 1952-1971. The Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister continued to receive the special allowances which were paid to 19th December, and all other Ministers since swearing in have received special allowances at the lower rate prescribed under the Act. 
I do not propose now to list all details in respect of the other office holders of the Parliament. These are contained in the Bill and senators will see that, in the main, a close relationship exists with the figures contained in the Kerr report. To assist senators further, however, I have had circulated a table setting out current parliamentary salaries and allowances and indicating where those rates will be varied by the proposals now before the Senate. I ask for leave to incorporate this table in Hansard. 
On 28th February  Senator Wheeldon  asked me the following question, without notice: 
My question, which I address to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is similar and on a similar subject to 2 questions which I asked during the last session, to which I received answers which could be fairly described as incomprehensible. As a conference of Commonwealth Heads of Government will be held later this year, will the Australian Government seek to have recent events in Uganda discussed at the meeting? If the Governent of Uganda has not by then ceased its present barbaric activities, will the Australian Government take action to have Uganda excluded from the Commonwealth of Nations on the ground of its unfitness for membership, a course of action for which there is precedent in the expulsion of the Republic of South Africa from the Commonwealth of Nations? 
I  said  I  would convey the request to the 
Prime Minister to see whether he would consider putting this matter on the agenda. He has provided the following answer: 
While deploring the recent events in Uganda, the Government considers that the question of whether these issues should be raised at the forthcoming conference of Commonwealth Heads of Government is essentially one to be decided by the African members. As for the second part of the honourable senator's question, the expulsion of any member of the Commonwealth would be a most serious step and one on which the Government would not wish to take  a  position without the fullest consultation with other members. The Ottawa meeting will provide an opportunity for such consultation. 
For the information of honourable senators,I present a Tariff Board report on duplicator stencils (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 23rd February 1973. 
No,  Senator Willesee  is not being selective in his views. The honourable senator asked a specific question as to whether or not the security arrangements were necessary, and I assure him that they were. 
The question was addressed to me as the representative of another Minister. I do not have knowledge of this matter but I shall find out what I can for the honourable senator. 
The reasons that he went have, I think, been stated several times in this House, and that is the information that 1 have. 
I do not know what the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party has to do with my portfolio or the portfolios that 1 represent. As I recall the situation, there was a motion before the conference which resulted in a tied vote. I think under our rules that if there is a tied vote the question is resolved in the negative. That is what the situation was. I wish honourable senators opposite would confine their questions to the portfolios for which  I  have responsibility. 
I do not know whether there were Yugoslav security agents here and if so what their numbers were. A group of people came here. I had contact only with the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, and with the man from the Yugoslav Foreign Ministry with whom I had a discussion lasting about 2 hours. Whether people were sent in advance or whether security agents were with them, I do not know. 
Yes, I can find out for the honourable senator. 
This has been the subject of questioning over the last couple of days. It is not a matter within my department; it is a matter for the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
You are quoting from a newspaper report and you ought to know better than that. 
The answer is that I will ask that any questions on this subject be put on the notice paper, lt is not a matter within my department. 
My recollection is that is so. 
I am sorry that I have no information which can help the honourable senator on that question. 
I ask that all further questions be put on notice. 
 Honourable senators on this side will not vote for the amendment. As  Senator Withers,  I think, put it so well, he has some sympathy for these things and he knows that there will be opportunities to raise these matters. I suggest that, as  Senator Withers  and I have said, there will be chances to look at these matters at a later stage. They will not be left in abeyance. I suggest that the Committee should reject the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The grant for employment creating purposes to 
New South Wales, in the Sydney metropolitan area, is $9m. A grant of $9,220,000 goes to Victoria for employment creating purposes in the metropolitan area. Queensland ii to receive $2m for employment creating purposes in the metropolitan area. Other details are as follows: South Australia, employment creating purposes in the metropolitan area - $4,620,000; Western Australia, sewerage works, Perth- $3,500,000; Tasmania, employment creating purposes in the metropolitan area - $710,000; housing and educational buildings - $lm; sewerage works, Launceston - $3 00.000. 
-I certainly will not. Those things are confidential and it would be sheer lunacy to make them public. I am surprised that the honourable senator would ask such a question. 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO CANBERRA 

 - Senator Murphy is absent because he is attending a meeting of Attorneys-General. The rest of the question I think I can ignore because the honourable senator talked about such things as the low priority - 
1 should noi answer interjections but  Senator Rae  says he thinks I should not ignore the rest of the question. When  Senator Greenwood  talks about giving a low priority to the answering of questions, I say this is not so. Tt is not a question of fact. The substance of the question is: Where is  Senator Murphy?  The answer is: He is attending a meeting of AttorneysGeneral. 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO AUSTRALIA 
Again, this question is along the lines of one or two questions directed to  Senator Murphy  over the last few days. As I have said, f am not in a position to give any detailed information about this matter. The situation as I see it is that a ministerial statement has been made and it is up to the Opposition to decide when it wants to debate it. lt involves the whole question of Croatian terrorism in Australia. The Government is quite willing to debate that statement whenever the Opposition is ready. The questioning has been around the visit that  Senator Murphy  made to Melbourne, lt seems to me that the Opposition is studiously avoiding the gravamen of the whole question of Croatian terrorism. The subject on which Australia ought to be concentrating its attention is terrorism, whether it be Croatian terrorism or any other form of terrorism. 
Questions shall not contain - 
statements of fact or names of persons unless they are strictly necessary to render the question intelligible and can be authenticated; 
arguments; 
inferences; 
imputations; 
epithets; 
ironical expressions; or 
hypothetical matter. 
I know,  Mr President,  and I ignore the last chapter of the question. I do not know why  Senator Hannan  does this. He can be such a nice gentleman yet he continually derogates himself and this Parliament by making silly, sarcastic remarks. 
If you think that about me, you are perfectly entitled to say it. In all the years I have been here I do not recall ever adding that sort of remark to questions. No, I do not have any documents with which I can assist the honourable senator. The point of the question was why did the Yugoslav Prime Minister come here, as he did not meet anybody. Well, he met me. I do not know whether  Senator Hannan  was aware of that before he asked the question. It is nothing unusual, as I see it, for Prime Ministers of friendly countries to visit Australia. We have had them from all over the place. Our own Prime Minister has made visits to other countries and will be making another one shortly. This is the normal sort of thing, as I understand it, that goes on between countries that recognise one another. 
I was unaware of the fact that there are not sufficient copies of the documents for all honourable senators. T shall make inquiries about that. The second point raised by the honourable senator goes into the public field and deals with citizens who may have an interest in these documents because their names have been mentioned. I shall find out how they can obtain a copy and let the honourable senator know as soon as T can. 
 Mr President,  as you have so rightly said, the question is out of order. ThereforeI could refuse to answer it.I missed the point butI think the honourable senator asked whetherI had said that we were against all types of violence in Australia. That was the basis of his question. Yes, I certainly repeat that. I expect, and this Government expects, that all law enforcement officers, State and Commonwealth - whether it be the Commonwealth Police Force or the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation - do everything to stamp out violence. How that is done is obviously a matter between the AttorneyGeneral and his forces. That is his business and not mine when I am acting for one day in his place. 
I regret,  Mr President,  that you do not seem to be able to get your point over. In repeating the question  Senator Rae  again mentioned the names that you ruled it was out of order to mention. But if honourable senators are going- 
Did the honourable senator say that I poured a bucket on someone? 
Ignoring that interjection, 1 am sure that  Senator Rae  is the type of person who will have a look at this matter and take it up in the future. He asked whether it is a fact that I said I would like to see terrorism stamped out in Australia. Yes, that is a fact. I think every person in this chamber would want that. I do not have a monopoly on that sort of thing.  Senator Rae  then asked what I would do in the Attorney-General's Department. 1 do not think he really would expect me to start interfering with another department. 
No. I think the honourable senator should put that matter to the Attorney-General when he is here. 
The proper line of communication between governments is from government to government. There has been no complaint from the Thai Government to the Australian Government regarding  Mr Whitlam's  comments. Indeed there have been 2 letters - one from Thanat Khoman, a very famous Thai, to a newspaper in Bangkok and another from the Thai Ambassador in Washington - pointing out the situation and defending the Whitlam statements. It is inevitable that criticism will be expressed. People in this country are going to criticise people in other countries. The honourable senator ought to be mature enough to know that that is going to happen in a modern community. It is probably a very good thing that it does. I repeat that there have been 2 defences of  Mr Whitlam's  statements by 2 very famous Thais and that there has not been one word of complaint from the Thai Government to the Australian Government. 
 I am not too sure of the terminology.I think it was a state visit, but I am not too sure on that. I do not know that people were excluded from it. I can find out for the honourable senator if he is interested. 
I had meetings with him. I had dinner with him and so on. The honourable senator would know about the security problems involved. 

 - Senator Rae says that he has heard all about the security arrangements involved but he does not know why they were necessary. I wish to assure him that, whatever he may think about anything else, those security arrangements were very necessary. To get back to the honourable senator's question, I do not think anybody was excluded, but I will find out the details of it and what the arrangements were. 
The honourable senator does not want to know. All right. 
In my capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister the Prime Minister allocates very special duties to me. Unfortunately he has not allocated this one to me. Whether he thinks I am incapable of picking out a superwoman or just an ordinary woman, 1 do not know.  might take the matter up with him now that it has been raised. 
The question of foreign aid is most fascinating and is receiving more and more attention from all the donor countries. It is obvious that to achieve what countries are trying to achieve they would have to give in aid far more than one per cent or possibly 2 per cent of their gross national product. This is a decision for each country to make and I think it would be hard to obtain. The question of aid to developing countries is bound up with the long term question of peace and the happiness of those people or at least an uplifting of their standard of living. As I understand the question, it asks that not only should this area be taken out of the hands of the Department of Foreign Affairs which is normally responsible for it in our own country but also that a special ministry be set up to deal with it. 
There is no argument about the aims of the Australian Council of Churches when it says that there should be greater development and peace. Whether the right way to do it would be to set up a separate development body away from the normal government agencies that handle aid now is a question that I could not answer. Probably we would have to look at what like countries in other parts of the world are doing. There is quite a history regarding aid. Some countries have tried to set up special bodies - almost little statutory bodies. Mainly, I think that they have come back to what we are doing in Australia, namely, having a section of a department administer it. I thank  Senator Gietzelt  for the question. It is an interesting one.  I  will certainly take it up and look at it. 
The honourable senator has asked the question again. I will answer it again. I have heard what  Senator Murphy  has said in the Senate. The matter does not come within my portfolio. I do not know the details to the extent that  Senator Murphy  would- 
This is a crossexamination. I will answer the questions as I wish. Honourable senators opposite are always complaining about not getting answers to questions. What they mean is that we do not say what they want us to say. I told honourable senators at the outset that I am representing  Senator Murphy  whilst he is away for one day at a conference. Obviously, I will ask for any questions like that to be placed on the notice paper. No honourable senator ought to expect that a Minister should be able to answer questions for those ministers whom he represents in the Senate, more so when I am representing  Senator Murphy  for merely one question time. 
I think the answers to this question are self-evident. Obviously, if terrorism is permitted to continue unchecked in a country, that country's international standing will be damaged. When countries sign and ally themselves with United Nations declarations on this type of matter, they are expected to carry them out. Obviously, a lot of the action taken has to be confidential. In the old days, we were not even allowed to ask questions about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It seems now that the Opposition, the former Government, wants to know everything from the first file to the last. The point that  Senator Poyser  underlines is timely and correct. We have a responsibility to stamp out terrorism in Australia. We will stamp out terrorism in Australia, and other countries will realise it. 
I will not tell  Senator Greenwood  or anybody else what has happened in Cabinet. There has been a report lying on the table of the Senate for the past 3 days. I suggest that if the Opposition were really concerned about debating the report it could have the matter brought on. The question is not how  Senator Murphy  administers his Department and matters of that type: the question is whether the Australian Government should any longer stand by and defend thugs and gunmen in this country. The answer is no. The Opposition can have that debate whenever it wants it. 
I ask for the question to he placed on notice so that we can have a look at it. I would have thought that under the myriad rules of law enforcement there may be something to cover this. If the question is put on notice I can get the AttorneyGeneral to look at it. 
Again this is a matter for the Attorney-General. While listening to the speech the other night I thought that some people had been convicted and that some were on trial. I am not sure of that point. 1 will have to ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. When the Attorney-General comes back he will be able to reply to it 
The honourable senator asks me whether I saw the documents. There are 2,400 pages in the documents and I have not seen the particular ones to which he refers. I am aware that  Mr Phillip  Lynch who was then a Minister wrote to the then Attorney-General - not  Senator Greenwood  but his predecessor - in these terms: 
I think it is proper when next a suitable opportunity present itself that consideration should be given to a strong statement by the Government that outrages of this kind will not be tolerated. 
I have answered the question. 
The honourable senator asked whether I had read these documents, and I answered: 'No, I have not.' 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO AUSTRALIA 
 Mr President,I  suggest to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that this is a matter which would be more appropriately debated when the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is present. This matter involves the Standing Orders or certainly bears on the Standing Orders. The Leader of the Government in the Senate is a member of the Standing Orders Committee, butI am not. He has a great knowledge of the Standing Orders, as I am sure you would agree,  Mr President.  I put it to the Leader of the Opposition that he should think about that suggestion. The order of business could be changed later tonight if that was desired. 
Firstly, this Salaries and Remuneration Bill represents a breakthrough in giving the Parliament some sort of knowledge and control over what we are to do in the case of travelling expenses and in respect of living in Canberra. They are the 2 things that are associated with the members' salaries and that is why they are connected.  Senator Wright  seeks to move beyond that and go into the question of sitting fees for committees. The moment we deal with sitting fees, we draw into the matter such committees as the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which have matters pertaining to this in their respective Acts. Without time and without somebody sitting at my elbow to see where all this will finish, I would suggest to the Committee of the Whole that the Bill be allowed to pass like this. When this Bill is passed and the tribunal established, all these things can be looked at in the maturity of time. 
Incidentally, it is my view that this 'tribunal will be set up possibly in the next session of the Parliament, and certainly this year. It would be my view that it ought to sit about 2 years after the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Kerr. The previous Government decided to have a review. One of the problems then was that 3- yearly intervals would be too long. That would be my view and I would work towards that end. So I anticipate that taking such action is not merely brushing aside these things that  Senator McManus  and others have mentioned during the debate. It is done in order to get the matter on a regular basis, and finally wash my hands of it altogether. I would suggest this course to the Committee. I see  Senator Wright's  point. I suggest to him that he is enlarging it away from travelling expenses. We have 2 forms of travelling expenses - travelling expenses coming to Canberra and the expense called the Canberra allowance, for want of more suitable words. Probably, he is moving into an area covered by other Acts. I suggest that the Bill be passed and in the fullness of time these sorts of things can be looked at. 
 This matter, too, has a bit of a history. I know what  Senator Wright  means but the wording of his amendment may be open to doubt. It refers to committees sitting in Canberra on days on which the Parliament sits. I presume that he would not have any objection to allowances being paid to committees meeting on days when the House of Representatives was sitting but when the Senate was not sitting. But there could be doubts.  Senator Wright  is one of those who would remember that many years ago  Senator Wood  put forward the proposition that no sitting fees at all should be paid. Because I was a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee at that time, I opposed the existing situation. It is a few years ago now, but I remember looking into the question, and I found that these committees were not costing so much and they were developing into a pretty good sort of a watchdog on very important sections of government legislation. I referred to the Public Accounts Committee, the Public Works Committee and some other committees at that time. We are not really talking about a large amount of money. I do not think that  Senator Wright  is saying that we are, I think that he is talking about something else. 
Again I say that I have no objection to what honourable senators eventually do about this question, but having just been  chairman  of the Committee dealing with salaries I realise how dangerous it is to make an ad hoc decision - snapping it off. That is why, after we made some adjustments, we stuck so closely to the Kerr report because at least there was a base. If you start to move away from that base in any one of your opinions - and we did it a couple of times - it is amazing what difficulties you face. I suggest to  Senator Wright  that in the fullness of time and when we can have a proper inquiry into this question by a body which is completely removed from this Parliament he can then put his argument and somebody might put a contrary argument, but there can be an examination of the situation. I see his point. I saw it in relation to the previous amendment. I think that he will have some success on the previous one when it comes to fruition. I do not know what his chances are with this one. I think it is a matter of judgment. I do not wish to see the Bill amended and have to go back to the other place. I suggest that the Committee should reject the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
 in reply - Firstly, I thank the Senate for the understanding it has shown of the whole situation that has brought about the introduction of this legislation. I now think it is generally understood, although at the beginning of the debate I did not think that some honourable senators did understand the whole situation. When the present Government came into office it was faced with a situation, as honourable senators well know, in which not only had members of Parliament had salary increases held up for a long time but also increases for statutory officers and departmental head's had been held up since 1971. In some cases departmental heads were receiving less than the assistant head. I do not intend to apportion blame to anyone in this respect. All I intend to do is say that that was the situation confronting the Government. 
Before the Parliament met the Cabinet appointed a committee to look into the matter and I, for my sins, was made the  chairman  of it. I have paid in full. I was not given an easy job. It would have been hard enough just having to make a decision on the salaries of Ministers and members of Parliament; but the committee was given a much harder job than that. It had to take into account for example the reorganisation of departments that has taken place. The point I want to put forward -  Senator Withers  brought this out in his concluding remarks - is that the committee was not asked to conduct an inquiry; it was asked to right a particular situation. A time element was involved. That was because it was felt that the people involved should not be denied an increase any longer. Right at the beginning of the task the committee had to perform it became apparent that it would be necessary to establish some sort of tribunal. 
The points that  Senator Withers  raised in this, respect will have to be decided. But even if it were decided, for instance, to fix these salaries to the salaries paid elsewhere in the community and thereby remove for all time the problem of parliamentarians having to make up their own minds, on their own salaries, it would still be necessary to have some sort of tribunal to consider the very things that  Senator Withers  has mentioned, the things  Senator Drake-Brockman  raised, and things that by way of interjection  Senator McManus  raised. AH of these propositions - without saying whether any one of them is right or wrong - would have to be considered at some stage by some sort of tribunal. Different situations are going to arise from time to time as there are changes of government, changes of parties, the creation of new parties and the amalgamation of old parties. It will be in the hands of the Parliament as to whether an outside tribunal - which I favour - is set up. 
In the early stages of the debate I did not think that  Senator Withers  had fully grasped the situation, but it was obvious when he made his second contribution to the debate that he had done so. The points he made will have to be looked at by the committee. One thing which has to be remembered in the field of wage fixation is that no matter what evidence is put forward, what amount of work is done and what research is conducted the final decision must be a matter of opinion. Two people with similar backgrounds could look at the same evidence and come up with 2 different sets of figures. What we did on this occasion, after taking the Kerr report as a base for many things, was to come up with a figure which we believed took into account everything - the decision by  Mr Justice  Kerr, the cost of living, the relativity of these salaries to those of other people - and above all was a fair amount to pay to members of Parliament for the work that they are expected to do and which will encourage desirable types to fill our shoes as one by one we go out of this Parliament. 
 I do not know. It was a matter involving  the  previous Government. 
 That is one thing I did not have to inquire into. I point out to honourable senators that tribunals are already accepted in 3 States - Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. In those States outside tribunals look at this question at regular intervals and fix the amounts of remuneration of State parliamentarians. In Queensland there is a system under which these salaries are automatically related to some sort of index. There again this question is not handled by the members of Parliament themselves.  Senator Wright  agrees with the setting up of a tribunal but contends that, finally, Parliament should decide what the amount should be. Debates come up every 4 or 5 years as to what the system ought to be. It is all very well to say that members of the Parliament who make laws conscripting people, who send them to war, who increase their taxes and who- interfere with their lives every day of the year if they feel so inclined, should be the people to say: 'This is the amount of money that ought to be fixed'. That is a very high and noble sentiment. The fact of the matter is that such a system has failed more times than it has succeeded. Last year and 1971 epitomised that trend far more than I can say. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman talked about the Australian Labor Party not being fair and just. For one moment I thought he was going to vote against the whole Bill. I say that because if the Bill is not fair and just I would not expect anybody to vote for it I am sure nobody would. But I must have misunderstood  Senator Drake-Brockman  because towards the end of his speech he said that he would certainly vote for the Bill. The situation in relation to the question raised by  Senator Drake-Brockman  is that the Kerr report gave a substantial increase in remuneration to the leader of the third party. The salary rose from $2,500 to $4,800; the allowance from $750 to $1,400; and the travelling allowance from nothing to $28 a day. But in all those cases  Mr Justice  Kerr kept the amounts substantially below the amounts to be paid to the  Deputy  Leader of the. Opposition, whose salary was determined at $7,500, whose allowances were determined at $1,800 and whose travelling allowance was determined $33 a day. So  Mr Justice  Kerr did not put forward the same argument as  Senator Drake-Brockman.  The Government has done better than  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended. 
 No. But it is my understanding that  Mr Justice  Kerr allowed for such a situation. The situation now is that the Leader of the Australian Country Party is to get an additional salary of $5,000, allowances of $1,500 and a travelling allowance of $36 a day. Honourable  senators may have  noticed that we have averaged out in the Bill all the travelling allowances. I could never see why 2 people who travelled somewhere together, who lived in the same  hotel  and  who paid  the same expenses should get different allowances. I am sure that had a senior Minister and a junior Minister  of  the previous Government gone to some place to attend a conference they would not have stayed at different hotels; the junior would not have walked about to find cheaper accommodation. I could never see the justice of that difference and  I  am glad to see it eliminated. I point out that the fact that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition will receive a special allowance of $4,250 compared with $1,800 is not significant, because the $4,250 special allowance - this is one aspect which I hope a tribunal will look at in the future - is not very different from the allowance of $1,800 plus $22 a day. This cannot be evaluated because one does not know how many days the member will spend in Canberra, but when it is worked out as an average there is very little difference. It is Tweedledum and Tweedledee in my book. 
 That is so. Nor would  Mr Lynch  be paid this allowance because the special allowance covers both the ministerial allowance and the Canberra allowance. I point this out to show that  Mr Lynch  will receive the $4,250 special allowance but that  Mr Anthony  will not, yet in the final washup it will not mean anything. I will not delay the chamber on this matter since  Senator Withers  has said he will not support it. The Government, having worked so long on this Bill, obviously does not wish to see any amendments to it. Should any honourable senator be worried about any aspect of this Bill I repeat that there will be a tribunal of some kind which will look at it. 
I repeat also that this was not an inquiry.  Mr Justice  Kerr worked on it for about  10  weeks and still came up looking for an inquiry at the end of it. My committee did not have anywhere near that time. What the committee did was to take basically the Kerr report, because after all that was the result of an inquiry, and in certain cases we updated the amounts for members but in the case of Ministers we did not accept those increases. Instead we applied a formula whereby - I shall reply in a moment to  Senator Wright  - there was virtually no increase. 
The burden of  Senator Townley's  speech was that no member should accept an increase in salary during the currency of his term but should wait until he goes again before the people.  Senator Townley  is at liberty to do that, as is any other member. But if we did that we would be ensuring that there would be examinations of salaries every 6 years. 
Yes. I will come to that point in a moment. Every member is master of his own destiny in this. To look at the situation from an arbitral position for a start, there would be an examination every 6 years or, for members of the House of Representatives, every 3 years. When  Senator Townley  accepted the payment which was prescribed by law when he stood for election, surely he was enough of a man of the world to know that it could be altered at some time, as it has been altered from time to time since federation. He talked about last year, but we are not debating last year. There are 2 ways in which members of Parliament can deal with this matter of payment. Any member who does not want this increase can make a public statement to that effect and arrange for the increase to be paid to any charity that he likes to name. That would make clear that he was not engaging in a shandygaff arrangement but was following his principle completely through. However, I would draw to the attention of  Senator Townley  and to any other honourable senator - I must be fair,  Senator Townley  is the only one who has raised this point - that section 13 of the Act prescribes: 
All moneys payable under this Act not claimed within 3 months after becoming due shall revert to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
So if any honourable senator makes arrangements with the accountant about this payment, he has just 3 months to make up his mind because after that period the payment will go into that bottomless pit called the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I want it to be perfectly clear that any honourable senator -  Senator Townley  or anyone else - who has any doubts about this has a clear way out. He can enter a disclaimer with the accountant and that situation will obtain. If he does not like that, he can do it the other way, that is, give his increase to charity. If we were to follow  Senator Townley's  suggestion and wait until 1975, the year of the next election, this would mean that these increases not only would not be fixed today but that there would be n gap between 1968 and 1975 before salaries were again examined. 

 Senator Wright criticised the increases in the ministerial allowances. Under the old Bill, had it been passed, and accepting  Mr Justice  Kerr's report, senior Ministers would have received $13,300 and junior Ministers $9,500. 
The Government has not accepted the Kerr report on either payment but has fixed the allowance of 510,500 as applied to a senior Minister of the McMahon Government. I could not follow  Senator Wright's  criticism because had the Bill gone through, senior Ministers would have received $13,300 a year. We are not accepting that because one of the criticisms of our Party was that the gap between Minister and private member was becoming too great. This will reduce that gap. Honourable senators opposite might think that we are silly in the head or crazy, but this is the Bill and that is the reasoning behind it. We are not adopting the Kerr report because we do not have differentiation of Ministers. All Ministers are Cabinet Ministers. We have only a Cabinet, not a Ministry, and the allowance is fixed on the old rate which was fixed in 1968 and which will continue until the next inquiry is held. 

 Senator Wright has said that the Labor Party disagreed with the 1971 situation. The fact is that in 1971 the Bills were never proceeded with in the House of Representatives and, therefore, we never had a chance to cast a vote on them, to move amendments to them or to do anything about them. The then Government withdrew them at that stage.  Senator Wright  has said also that the judiciary should not be covered by this section. He argued that members of the judiciary are separate people and ought not be caught up in the controversy which may arise out of such a Bill as this. I see his point. However, my belief is that the more sections of wage fixation which can be brought under the one umbrella, the better it is for the whole of wage fixation throughout Australia. We have grown up with the system of so many wage fixation tribunals in Australia, and it is easy, therefore, to play one off against the other. I have an idea, which perhaps I shall not get away with, that the fixation of members' salaries should be made by a tribunal which is also fixing other persons' salaries. I know there is argument against that idea but it is consistent with my view that the more wage fixations that can be brought under the one umbrella, the better it will be all round. 
I have some sympathy with the proposed amendments that  Senator Wright  intends to raise. However, &lt;f we debate this today I see difficulties in having it passed today. I think it ought ยปo be looked at because we are not only importing into it the question of having everything done under regulation - we have done that and we have consistently argued that there should be some checks on these things through the Parliament - we would also be trying to make alterations to the situation today. This is something that the proposed tribunal could well look at.  Senator Wright  also raised the question of sitting fees for committee members on sitting days and things such as that. That too ought to be looked at in due course by some tribunal whether it be the one that he might lean to or the one I lean to. 

 Senator Wood commented that we are rushing this Bill through. Honourable members may have noticed that when I stood to reply I gave ample opportunity for others to speak. Counting my 2 speeches and  Senator Withers'  2 speeches, 10 speeches have been made on this Bill. 
Some honourable senators have flagged difficulties that they foresee but, as I understood them, they have accepted the difficulties facing the Government and that at least some of them have been ironed out. I have never heard of anybody from either the employers' or the employees' side walking away completely happy from an arbitration tribunal. Opinions are involved and opinions must differ. The committee which I chaired faced a very difficult situation. We ran into tremendous problems, one of which was met in trying to keep the salaries of Ministers down. The moment that that is done, relativity problems arise and a pincer movement develops along the line. I thank the Senate for the way in which the measure has been received. I appreciate the comments and the flagging of difficulties that might arise in the future. Thank you for the reception of the 'Bill. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator  Drake-Brockman's amendment) be added. 
in reply -  Mr Deputy President,  those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate have dealt largely with what was contained in my second reading speech and the reasons for the introduction of this legislation. My understanding of the situation concerning the setting up of new departments is that it is the government which does the setting up and the Parliament which controls them at a later stage by overseeing their expenditure. I cannot remember any new department ever being created in any other way. It is true that the present Government has created, abolished, amalgamated and excised departments more than is usual - probably more than ever before. The Government has not sought to refer these additional estimates to estimates committees because of what would be involved in this exercise. Firstly, the Parliament has already passed a Bill which allowed for the savings involved. When money is appropriated to a heading it must be spent under that heading. 
Yes. Last year the Parliament voted $6 1.565m to the Department of Social Services. Of course, all of that sum was not expended. Up to 28th February we lived off that and that is why there is a validation section in the legislation. It is now necessary to appropriate money to the Department of Social Security to enable it to carry on. It has been giving effect to a lot of the decisions that were made prior to 28th February. According to Appropriation Bill (No. 3) there has been a saving of $24.4m in that respect. By taking that amount away from the total appropriation sought in the Bill of $56m one gets $32m. From that $10m will go direct to expenditure on Aborigines. As Appropriation Bill (No. 5) and Appropriation Bill (No. 6) will be introduced in April or May - they are the ones which the Senate usually sends to the estimates committees for examination - it did not seem to the Government to be necessary to have the additional estimates provided for in these Bills subjected to the scrutiny of the estimates committees. It would be a waste of a fair amount of time to do so, especially as the estimates committees will be able to scrutinise this expenditure in April or May in connection with Appropriation Bill (No. 5) and Appropriation Bill (No. 6). The Senate did not seek to take this kind of action the other day when a saving was involved. I think it was wise that it did not. It accepted those appropriations. 
Those honourable senators who have participated in the debate have dealt largely with what is set out in my second reading speech. The concluding part of the amendment is as follows: 
The Senate agrees with the Bills because of the undertaking by the Government that they will be submitted for scrutiny to the estimates committees . . . 
The Government has never given that undertaking. As I understand it,  Senator Cotton  is demanding that we should give that undertaking. 
No.  Senator Cotton  knows well the difficulties that one has when acting for other departments, particularly the Treasury. My understanding is that Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) will come to the chamber in April, which is next month, for the extra appropriations needed between now and the time of presentation of the Budget, and that they will be the Bills which will go before the Estimates committees. Although this specific expenditure will not be in it, the whole thing will be caught up. There will be extra expenditure of new departments but there will be no extra expenditure, I imagine, for those departments that have been abolished because we have in fact saved money on them. As  Senator Byrne  has pointed out, we cannot take expenditure from one department and put it into another. I suggest that there is hardly any need for the amendment.  Senator Cotton  has criticised the way in which the new departments were set up, and that is fair enough. No problem arises there. The honourable senator has mentioned that in his first point and has made his criticism.  Senator Cotton  says also that it is established procedure and that we have moved away from it. We are only moving away from it because I think it is wise so to do, particularly as the new Appropriation Bills will be introduced in April. That question can be dealt with then. I understand that is when the Bills will go to the Estimates committees. 
I do not agree with  Senator Laucke  that the Estimates committees have been the great success that he claims or that we have the departmental officers shivering in their boots. In all transactions in life,I think, one has to trust somebody somewhere. I have thought that the problem of the Estimates committees is that they go too deeply into minutiae. Senior people are appointed to run departments, and I trust them to buy such things as furniture or to change the refrigerator at a certain time. I think the committees read too much into these matters. If we look at some expenditures- 
Yes. In my estimating days in a very mild way in the Public Service I was never as good as that. 
Yes, and that is where 1 worked. This is the sort of thing the committees should look at but I think one can get in too deeply. The Public Service has its own system of vetting people and has its own standards for them. It brings them in at various levels and they go to various levels. I do not think the committees have had the effect that  Senator Laucke  suggests they have had. I wonder whether they have been a success in many ways. Although the old way was cumbersome, at least each one of us became aware of these things. The whole problem of Estimates is fiddling and very difficult to look at.I suggest to  Senator Cotton  that his amendment is unnecessary. It is unnecessary to send these Bills to the Estimates committees because the whole question will be under scrutiny in April which begins within a few days. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT(Senator Marriott) - Order! The Minister has closed the debate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTThe Question on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1972-73 is: 'That the words proposed to be added to the motion by  Senator Cotton's  amendment be added'. Those in favour of the motion say 'aye', to the contrary 'no'. I think the 'ayes' have it. 
Was that the amendment? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - That was the amendment. 
That is the difficulty.  Senator Cotton  wanted to say something about it. I want to vote against the amendment and, if necessary, divide though I was hoping we would not get to that situation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Cotton may apply for leave to make a statement. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator COTTON (New South Wales) - I am not being discourteous to anybody but 1 wish to facilitate the work of the Committee and to understand the problem that confronts the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. What he has had to say, however, does not depart from the essential facts that were mentioned here by the Opposition. What the honourable senator has not made perfectly clear, although I think it is his intention to make it clear, is something like this: Because the total expenditure involved in Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) will come to account when Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) are dealt with by the Senate - that will be before the end of the autumn session - and Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) will be referred to the Estimates committees, the matter will be put under examination in that style. May I ask  Senator Willesee  whether that, is the situation? 
I ask for leave to make a brief statement. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western Australia - Special Minister of State) - I was a  little hesitant on this because if the Senate decides - the Estimates committees have not yet been set up - when Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) come before this House that they should be sent to the Estimates committees, there will be an opportunity for honourable senators to examine Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) in conjunction with them. That would be the situation. If Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) go to the Estimates committees then honourable senators will be able to look at Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4). 
Yes. I cannot see how one could get them out of the Estimates committees. However, I am not an expert on that procedure and perhaps I should not have said that. We would have no objection to looking at the situation of new departments. There would be no need to look at the savings made on other departments because they would have disappeared. There would be no point in that though honourable senators could do so if they wanted to. That is the way I see the situation. Honourable senators know that the Party leaders are waiting to meet about the committee system. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator COTTON (New South Wales) - We are seeking to elucidate the details here. We are still not clear whether expenditure covered by Appropriation  Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) passes  unscrutinised  or is incorporated as part of expenditure in due course in Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6). We need to know that. What disturbs me also is this comment by the Acting Leader of the Government, who is representing the Treasurer: 'If Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) go to the Estimates committees'. The Senate has an established practice that all Appropriation Bills go to the Estimates committees. Therefore, when we hear the word if about Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) going to the Estimates committees is this contemplating a change in style and approach by the incoming Government to the treatment of financial expenditure and examination of it by the Senate? I am not saying that that is the case; I am saying that one can draw that inference. I do not want to have the situation when Appropriation Bills (No. 5) and (No. 6) come up and are then examined by the Estimates committees - if that happens; I am becoming disturbed now - to be told: You have already agreed to Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) and they are not under examination'. That is not satisfactory to me. I am sorry, I do not want to be difficult, but I am anxious that we should stick to the  amendment  because it observes, in my view, what might be described as a sanction of what I believe was not being done as it ought to be done. That is what I say, and  Senator Willesee  can disagree with me, if he wishes to do so. I am particularly anxious that the financial scrutiny of the Senate, either in the Committee of the Whole or in the established practice of the Estimates committees, then back to the Senate itself, ought to be maintained right across the structure of financial expenditure. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT(Senator Marriott) -  Senator Cotton,  surely you do not want to start the debate again. You were given leave to make a statement. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western Australia - Special Minister of State) - by leave -I am sorry that  Senator Cotton  is getting upset about this matter. If the amendment has been passed, that is that.  Senator Cotton  asked first whether this expenditure is to be merged into the new expenditure. No, it is not, but I can overcome that by saying that in respect of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) I will give an undertaking that if Appropriation Bill (No. 5) and Appropriation Bill (No. 6) go to the Estimates Committees, he can also ask questions on those Bills. That is only fair. I come back to the point by saying thatI agree with  Senator Cotton  when he states that he wants oversight of expenditure by one of two methods. The first method is that which has grown up over the last couple of years - scrutiny by Estimates Committees. The second method is scrutiny by the Committee of the Whole. The experts advise me that they have information here if  Senator Cotton  wishes to cany on with some of these points, but he is trying to be helpful the other way. Let us say that we do not send these Bills to the Estimates Committees. The Opposition desires an undertaking that when all the Bills have come up, senators will have an opportunity to ask questions either in the Estimates Committee or in the Committee of the Whole. 
Yes. I am not trying to waver, but you have not set up your committees. 
We have not set up the committees or, to be more accurate, the Parliament has not set them up. Some people are not very enamoured of the committees  and  a decision has to be made. 
That is a part I do not handle; it belongs to  Senator Murphy.  I think  Senator Durack  is right. I do not claim to know everything that goes on in the Parliament or in all the departments. 
I moved it for  Senator Murphy.  I read it out and I did not take a lot of notice  of  it. That is the situation. If these Bills are referred to  the  Estimates CommitteesI give an undertaking  that  senators can look at Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). Do you want to go on with this now? 
If  that  stands,  you  still must have your Estimates Committees. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time,  and  passed through  its  remaining stages without requests or debate. 
The terms and conditions of this loan, which are similar to those imposed on the special loan of $17.5m made during 1971-72, are as follows: (a) The loan will be repayable over 5 years by annual instalments of $3m commencing one year after the date on which the loan is made; that is the date on which the funds are paid to the State with the proviso that the State undertakes to repay more than $3m in any year if its budgetary position permits. The Commonwealth will agree to the postponement of an annual instalment if it is satisfied that the State's budgetary position in the year concerned does not permit repayment to be made without deficit financing. This will not affect the requirement that the whole of the loan be repaid by the end of 5 years from the date that the loan is made, (b) The loan will carry interest at the rate applicable to Commonwealth securities having a currency of 5 years offered in the Commonwealth loan last preceding the date on which the loan is made. If no 5-year security is offered on the loan, the rate will be based on a determination as to the rate that would have been applicable if such security had been offered. The rate to apply on that basis would be the subject of discussion between the respective treasuries. No interest will be payable or chargeable on the loan in respect of the period of 1 year from the date the loan is made. After then, interest will be payable twice annually commencing 18 months after the date on which the loan is made. 
I listened with attention to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  At last I have arrived! People are starting to quote my speeches - an ambition I have always had. I had thought that no-one took any notice of me over the years. 
The honourable senator should read more of them.  Senator Withers  put forward the point that we should adopt the attitude he suggests until some standing order for the Senate is agreed to, and until then the Senate should decide. Firstly. I wonder whether we could get a standing order which would overcome the situation. If we could, I would have no objection but I do not know how we could establish such a standing order. If we can, okay, but I think there would be tremendous difficulty in setting out such a standing order in view of the particular circumstances which face a national parliament. I refer to the sort of things with which a national parliament may find itself involved - a world war, a budget session, a taxation matter, and all sorts of other things. I think it would be tremendously difficult. 
Let us keep this matter in perspective and not do anything silly which will reflect on us for a long time. I know that we can get caught up in the emotions attaching to a particular situation. Last Tuesday, after about one hour and 40 minutes - I want honourable senators to note the times - the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  asked that further questions be placed on notice. That was after one hour and 40 minutes.  Mr President  then made a statement to the effect that if the Minister in charge of the House asked, after a certain time, that further questions without notice be placed on the notice paper, he believed that he would have no alternative but to call on the next business. Now, behind that statement there is the entire history of the Government having control  of  the business of the Senate. 
1 know that  Senator Sim  is trying to assist me but I ask him to let me put the matter in my own way, inadequate as it may be. He can speak later. I commenced my speech tonight by saying that you can get caught up in local situations and I think it would be a pity if we laid down something that would govern this Senate for perhaps many years. In years to come somebody might quote the speeches we are making tonight. If this matter goes on for that long I do not know whether I will be around to listen to what is being said because time is starting to pass me by pretty rapidly. However, I put this in all seriousness: One of the regrets I have relates to the fact that the  President, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, asked some 10 days ago, I think, for the party leaders to get together with him to look at the matter of the asking and answering of questions. Let us be a bit objective. I do not think that question time, particularly in the last few weeks, has done any credit to a national parliament. 
I do not want anybody to get over-sensitive about this but that is the situation. The idea has been built up that the good time for tourists to visit Parliament is question time. I have wondered for many years whether it is the best time. The serious debates, and the tremendous research put into them by honourable senators and, I think, by members of the House of Representatives, have been far more attractive than some of the question periods. 1 know perfectly well that because of the type of political situation we have in Australia, question time is bent a lot because honourable senators try to gain propaganda value. I wonder if people realise that the theory of Parliament in the Australian situation has been badly eroded. The theory is that we meet here, adopt an objective point of view and arrive at a decision. Because of the way politics have grown up in Australia, with the party system so firmly entrenched, the real decisions of Government and of Opposition are made in the party rooms. What happens in the Parliament becomes, to a degree, a ceremonial procedure. Superimposed on this are questions relating to propaganda and the electorate. Members of the Australian Parliament probably are more involved with their electorates than are the members of any other Parliament in the world. Some members of Parliament are tremendously aloof. They are there as legislators and legislators only. But in this country the situation has not grown up in that way. I do not make any comment on whether that is good or bad. The fact is that members are involved in electorates; they are involved in doing work which may be better done by departments; they are involved in ceremonial procedure; they are involved in the party rooms in policy making and they are involved in the business of asking questions with all this content coming into it. Often it is obvious that somebody has asked a question which is designed almost for the town, the suburb or the area in which he lives. Across the chamber we hear lots of ribald and friendly remarks about this sort of thing because we understand why this is being done. 
Let me return to the narrative as I see it. There is no doubt that the President's statement was in accordance with practice. He was in line with  President Sir Alister  McMul]in's statement in 1967 that it was the practice of the Senate that a Minister had the right to ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper without proposing a motion. In getting this matter into perspective I stress that the Chair is guided by the practice of this chamber. On Tuesday last  Mr President  followed practice. I do not think any honourable senators could criticise him, whatever the decision might be on that. He said he was not prepared to throw a practice overboard unless he was directed to do so by the Senate. Of course the Senate has a perfect right to change practice. No-one disputes that. But before the Senate changes its practice it should consider very carefully a number of considerations. 
Reference may be made to the 1967 debate when certain expressions of opinion were voiced by myself, other members of my Party and by members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I uphold the traditions of the Senate and its rights as strongly as does any other honourable senator in this place. But we must get some reason into the matter which we have before us tonight. The first thing to be remembered is that question time is now of much longer duration than it used to be. In 1967 question time was taking an average of 45 minutes. On the particular day to which I have referred it was 30 minutes.  Senator Gorton,  as he then was, made the point that question time had run for an hour. There was an interjection and he broke the time down to 50 minutes, but the records show that it was closer to 30 minutes. He was objecting, after 30 minutes, to the request that question time should go on. The fact is that this year question time has extended over about 2 hours. That is 4 times the period which was taken when I raised my objection in 1967. I think that any fair-minded person would say that that is a vastly different situation from that which we have had, not on one day but day after day when obviously there has been a pre-arrangement on the part of honourable senators opposite to keep question time going at any cost. Be that as it may. I have drawn the line and pointed to the contents that come into the situation. If honourable senators think there is some political advantage in that, then I suppose they have on their side one of those contents which I have mentioned. 
I am merely saying that we are a national Parliament, we are living in very fast moving times and I wonder whether this is the sort of image of half of this Parliament which honourable senators opposite want to be projected to the general public and  to other  countries. I do not think anybody can deny that this Government has allowed reasonable time for questions. The problem is that the time taken by questions is becoming disproportionate to the time available for other urgent business. Some reason must be put into these proceedings. My first point is that no-one on this side of the chamber denies the right of honourable senators opposite to ask a reasonable number of questions. The only point at issue is the amount of time which should reasonably be allowed for questions without notice, having in mind that honourable senators also have the opportunity to put any number of questions on the notice paper. I remind the Senate of the practice in relation to the right of the Minister in charge to ask, after a reasonable time, that further questions bc placed on notice. 1 repeat that in 1967  President Sir Alister  McMullin stated that it was the practice of the Senate that a Minister had the right to ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper without proposing a motion. This practice is based upon the rule of procedure that there is no obligation upon a Minister to answer questions. In other words, it is entirely discretionary with Ministers whether they answer questions. 
1 am not quoting. I am reading and referring to what  Sir Alister  McMullin said in 1967. 1 now remind the Senate of the practice in the House of Representatives. I point out that there are twice the number of members in the other place that there are in the Senate. The official description of procedure in the House of Representatives is as follows: 
The period of questions without notice begins shortly after the commencement of a silling and continues for approximately 43 minutes and is ended by the Prime Minister requesting that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
I have never seen that challenged at any time in the House of Representatives. Let us look now al the Hansard record for the House of Representatives. On 4th October 1933  Mr Speaker  is reported in this way:  lt is entirely within the province of a Minister to refrain from answering questions. The Right Honourable the Prime Minister having intimated that rt is his desire that no further questions should be asked at this stage. I must, therefore, call on the next business. 
Then on 13th October 1955 Hansard reports  Mr Speaker  as follows: 
When the Leader of the House indicates that questions shall cease, the Chair has no alternative in the matter. . .  lt will be seen, therefore, that the practice is the same in both Houses. If the Senate wishes to change that practice, that is its right. But honourable senators should think very carefully. If question time in the Senate has been unreasonbly curtailed there may be a case for change. But that is far from the position. Honourable senators are enjoying more question time than ever before. J point out that questions continue past the 45 minutes allowed for broadcasting so there cannot by any complaint in that regard. The foregoing represents some of the considerations which honourable senators must bear in mind when proposing any change in our well-tried practice. By no stretch of the imagination can it be said that honourable senators are having their rights taken away. Indeed, they enjoy considerable latitude at question time. I put this to the Senate: Do not change our tried procedures without deep thought. But if honourable senators believe that improvements can be made, that is fair enough. The best way to go about that is to refer the matter of questions to the Senate Standing Orders Committee for a report. There would be other advantages in this because the length of question time is not the only matter which is concerning honourable senators. 1 look at the motion which has been put down by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and I wonder whether it is even workable. It states: 
That, in the absence of any Standing Order on tha matter, honourable senators' right to question Ministers is limited only by the judgment of the Senate, and that Ministers who seek recognition from the Senate are obliged to answer Questions.  1 think that what the honourable senator means by 'seek recognition from the Senate' is writing in the fact that there is no obligation on Ministers to answer questions. So if a Minister wishes to sit in his seat, he may. I used to see that done here quite a lot when I first came to this place. The Minister would just sit there, the  President  would look at him and then turn to the next questioner. 
I can remember it being done. 1 can remember too a Liberal, of whom I was tremendously fond. I thought that he was a very capable fellow. But we would ask him a series of questions and he would say: 'No; no, T do not know; I have not got a clue; yes', and then he would sit down. Looking back later, that was generally the situation. It used to be quite humorous but the fact was that he was answering to the best of his knowledge. The motion then continues:  with a promptness and accuracy appropriate to ministerial responsibility. 
I do not quite understand the middle section of the motion but I do appreciate that  Senator Withers  wants questions answered with a promptness and accuracy appropriate to ministerial responsibility*.  1  am glad that he included that phrase in the motion because within ministerial responsibility is the question of timing, lt would be fatal to answer certain questions. Honourable senators can imagine that in such areas as taxation and foreign affairs it would not be in the interests of Australia to make pronouncements. 

 Senator Withers also referred to the fact that I did not want this motion brought before the Senate tonight.  1  suppose that was a reasonable assumption, but I explained this morning that  Senator Murphy  is away; he is a member of the Standing Orders Committee; he is a lawyer and has the instincts in relation to drafting and the nuances of English which quite frankly I as a layman do not. have. I quite admired some of the former Ministers who are now in the Opposition for the way in which they answered questions. We have this peculiar situation in the Senate that is talked about around the corridors and about which we have never been able to do anything, that there are 3 times the number of Ministers in the other place that we have in the Senate. The Ministers in the Senate have to represent in this place the Ministers in the House of Representatives. When the present Opposition was in government  Senator Wright  and the other Ministers were faced with the same situation. lt is quite impossible to answer accurately and truthfully questions concerning a portfolio which the Minister in the Senate only represents. For instance, I represent the Treasurer, who has a complicated portfolio, and I represent also the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory. Obviously what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was trying to do but never succeeded in doing was to have put on notice questions which sought detailed information. 
If any honourable senator genuinely wants information - I am certain that I speak for all the other Ministers as well - he can put a question on the notice paper or, if he likes, he can come to me personally, as one of the 
Liberal senators did the other day. He said: 'I am very genuinely interested in this matter. Can you give me some documents on it,' I said: 'I will refer it to the appropriate Minister and if the information he supplies is not sufficient, ring me or come around and see me and I will certainly get the documents you require if they are available.' The matter with which he was concerned related to international economic situations. So if an honourable senator genuinely wants information there are a dozen ways he can get it. It is quite ridiculous for honourable senators to ask questions concerning those portfolios for which ministerial responsibility rests in the House of Representatives. 
-I do not read newspapers very much because  1  find that-- 
I do not think I ought to. 
I acknowledge that as a very good interjection from  Senator Drake-Brockman.  1 often wish that members of Parliament would not read the newspapers so much because  1  think they stifle their own honest endeavours and they come into this place much more inhibited than they would be otherwise. They think they have to react to what they read in the newspapers. But, of course, we obtain most of our information from the newspapers. It is very difficult for a Minister when he is asked: 'Did you read an article in the newspaper? Do you think it is true?' To paraphrase what  Senator DrakeBrockman  pointed out, more often than not it is not true. I think any Minister would be silly to say: 'Yes, there has been a war in Patagonia', or something to that effect because of what appeared in the morning's newspaper.  1  received a phone call the other morning at half past six. A fellow said: 'We are on the air. Could you please tell us about the war that has broken out in' - I will not mention the name of the country. I said: 'Listen, I am still asleep.' He said: 'Haven't you read the paper?' I said: 'No, I have not read the paper. I am quite incapable of reading the paper at this time.' He said: 'You cannot help me very much.' I said: 'Brother, we really agree. That is the understatement of the year. I do not know what you are talking about. I have not read the paper and even if I had read the paper I would not trust the headlines of a newspaper that said that a country was at war.' Of course, the newspaper was completely wrong in its statement. 
I said this morning that I would like this debate adjourned until  Senator Murphy  returned.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack obviously was trying to bring a little dignity into this place, and I would like the Senate to have a reasonable opportunity to deal with the matters that come before it. We are a new government that has been elected with a mandate to do certain things. Obviously the Opposition disagrees with a lot of the things that we want to do; 1 do not think it disagrees with all of them. People outside think that every Bill will be opposed, when in fact there is much more reasonableness in this place than the newspapers sometimes make out. lt is the responsibility of the Opposition to say whether it intends to amend or oppose a Bill, or what  other  attitude it intends to take. From what I have read I understand that the attitude of the Opposition is that it accepts broadly that we have a mandate but where it believes we do not have a mandate it will feel free to have a look at the situation. I do not think anybody can argue with that point of view. 1 come back to the point that we can get caught up in local situations, such as has arisen out of the visit to Australia of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, and what in the view of the Opposition was the unprecedented action of  Senator Murphy  after taking over a new department. 
What 1 am trying to say here is that we now have a local situation and the Senate has before it a ministerial statement which will be debated in due course. Harsh things have been said, but if this motion is carried tonight before we have an opportunity to sit down and look at it. the hands of the Senate will be tied. As  Senator Withers  pointed out tonight - he quoted something I said in 1967, so I have arrived - by carrying this motion the Senate will write into the records of this Parliament something which will not be very good for the whole of the Parliament. When J objected that day in 1967 question time had been proceeding for about 30 minutes and the average time was 45 minutes. Question time has now been extended to 2 hours. Honourable senators opposite should be honest with themselves: A lot of the questions they have asked should have been put on the notice paper. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that many of those questions could well not have been asked. I repeat that if any honourable senator genuinely wants information I do .lot care whether he comes to my office to see my staff or, if he wants it in advance, rings me when the Senate is not sitting. I will do everything in my power to get him the information he seeks. If an honourable senator genuinely wants information I will certainly do everything possible to get it for him, and if any follow-up information is required that will be supplied also. 
Today I gave  Senator Mulvihill  some information which has not yet been confirmed. It concerned a very delicate situation in which he is interested. I told him that when it was confirmed I would let him know. I will not be answering a question in the Senate on the matter unless the honourable senator asks me about it. We are a national Parliament and honourable senators have certain rights, and the Government will not in any way derogate from those rights. Honourable senators have been adopting the practice of asking questions for 2 hours. We have suggested that question time should be confined to about an hour and a quarter. Today, I think, it lasted an hour and 25 minutes before I finally asked that remaining questions be put on the notice paper. 
Today the Senate found itself in a very unusual situation. I was sitting at the table and honourable senators were asking me questions in relation to a department that is one of the most difficult to administer in the lexicon of the national Parliament. I refer to the Attorney-General's Department. Superimposed on that, honourable senators continued to ask questions about the delicate situation on which they have been questioning  Senator Murphy.  How do honourable senators expect me or anybody else in this chamber - I include honourable senators opposite - to answer questions about this matter on which questions have been asked now for so many days. But even when I asked that remaining questions be put on the notice paper there were complaints. I put it to honourable senators as fair minded people that they should defer debating this matter further until we have had reasonable time to consider it. We will not be going back to the  30  minutes of the days of  1967.  A completely reasonable period of time in which to ask questions will be allowed. The responsibility for the effective use of that time lies with the Opposition. It can use that time more effectively by putting on notice those questions that obviously will have to go on notice anyway because they are impossible to answer off the cuff. 
When it comes to answering questions concerning the portfolios for which I am responsible in this chamber I adopt a very simple approach. It is an approach that  Senator Drake-Brockman  described very well  2  or  3  years ago, probably when he was being chipped, in the sort of ribaldry that goes on in this place, about not answering questions. He said: 'I will tell you what I know and, what I do not know I will find out for you'. I also adopt that attitude. In any field for which I am responsible I will tell honourable senators what I know, even if it would be embarrasing to me to do so. 
I am saying it now. 
It is the honourable senator's opinion that I did not answer that question. 
It is not a fact. Because of the way in which he is going on, I am starting to have less regard for  Senator Webster's  opinion. I do not have anything to hide in this place. Although something may cause temporary embarrassment, I think it should be remembered that the nation is bigger than any one of us. I for one will take a leaf out of  Senator Drake-Brockman's  book and tell honourable senators what I know and I will do my level best to get for honourable senators whatever information I do not have immediately at my disposal. Obviously those questions for which an answer is not readily available will have to go on notice. I think honourable senators should endeavour to get question time down to the seeking of information and pressing for answers on something which honourable senators think ought to be changed. I think that should be the point of question time. I have spoken for longer than I intended. I shall conclude my remarks by moving an amendment to the motion. I will do so because I think that those honourable senators who look at this matter in all reasonableness will appreciate that, after  73  years, there is no great urgency about changing the system tonight. I move: 
At commencement of motion insert 'that the following matters be referred to the Standing Orders Committee'. 
On Thursday 15th March 1973,  Senator Greenwood  asked me the following question without notice: 1 refer the Minister to the statements issued by the United States Government on 14th March, that it was using every means of communications to express concern to Hanoi about the heavy flow of troops and equipment into Laos, Cambodia and South Viet-Nam, and specifically that the confirmed movement of about 30,000 troops, 300 armoured vehicles and heavy artillery is expressly contrary to the Paris ceasefire pact. I ask him: Will the Australian Government also express its concern? Will it use its influence with Hanoi and the North Vietnamese Government? Will it withhold its proposed diplomatic representation in Hanoi so long as that Government acts contrary to its pledge not to send its troops into other countries? 
I  said that as  I  understood it. the question was based on a press report, the validity of whichI did not know.  I  undertook to make some inquiries and let the Honourable  Senator have  an answer. The following is provided for his information: 
The Australian Government is aware of the statements issued by the United States Government on 14th March, and subsequently also, of course, of President Nixon's comments at his news conference on 15th March. 
In answer to a subsequent question on notice from  Senator Webster,  I expressed the Australian Government's concern at the developments mentioned by  Senator Greenwood,  and said that the Australian Government deplored any action whatsoever which harmed the prospect of re-establishing peaceful conditions in Viet-Nam. 
In relation to the action proposed by the Honourable  Senator, may  I also remind him of the fact that the Australian Government is not a party to the Agreement on Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Viet-Nam, nor is it a signatory to the Final Act of the International Conference on Viet-Nam held in Paris. Australia does not, therefore, have any formal standing or responsibilities in relation to compliance with the terms of those Agreements. 
The . AttorneyGeneral's Department is looking closely at the operations of the Rhodesian Information Centre because of the civil liberties aspect that might be involved in a situation such as this. This Government has hot changed its mind about the whole situation, if the Centre can be closed, it certainly will be closed. 
in reply - I have listened with interest to the speeches. Both the  speaker  for the Australian Country Party and the  speaker  for the Liberal Party of Australia have agreed that the Bill should be passed.  Senator Cotton  described what the Bill will do and how it was handled. [ thank the Senate for its consideration of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the. affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I must get hold of the Queensland Australian Labor Party members and get them to concentrate on that one other seat. That was not good enough. I would imagine that for Australian politics the result is a record. I do not know, but if the honourable senator is really interested in the situation we could certainly get  Mr Daly  to check on it, and I would like him to congratulate  Mr Jones  and the Queensland Austraiian Labor Party on that result. 
I move: . 
That the Bill 'be now read a second lime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend section 68 of the Public Service Act 1922-1972 to increase the basic annual recreation leave entitlement of officers of the Commonwealth Service from 3 weeks to 4. The Bill provides for retrospective effect to 1st January 1973. The Bill takes account of the expressed wishes of the Senate. The Public Service Board has indicated that subject to the passage of this Bill, it proposes to take action to amend the existing Public Service Regulations so that an additional week's leave can be extended to temporary employees under the Public. Service Act and to officers and employees who, because of the nature or location of their employment, are currently eligible for more than 3 week's leave. 
Consistent with the provisions of this Bill, the regulations will provide for retrospective effect to 1st January 1973. Acts covering the employment of staff of statutory authorities, etc., generally give power to the authority to determine terms and conditions of employment. The -Government is arranging consultations with these authorities so that the necessary arrangements to extend 4 weeks' leave to this area of Australian Government employment can be made. I commend the Bill to the Senate.,  
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. ' 
in reply - I thank  Senator Hannan  for his speech. The whole question of sales tax will be again reviewed prior to the next Budget. I understand that quite a wealth of letters are received by the Government concerning the various items on which sales tax is imposed. It is only right that such letters should be written to the Government. Anybody who has anything to say about the sales tax imposed over a whole range of commodities should certainly write to the Government. If  Senator Hannan  thinks that sales tax ought to be increased, decreased or kept at the same level, I certainly hope that he will write to the Treasurer. I thank  Senator Hannan  for his speech and the Senate for giving this Bill a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without ammendment or debate. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The amendment contained in the Bill now before the Senate removes the excise duty from wine produced from fresh grapes, being wine that does not contain any added sweetening matter. Honourable senators are aware that one of the first actions of this Government was to invoke provisions in excise by-laws to allow wine to be entered for home consumption without payment of duty. The Bill now under consideration retains the duty on certain artificially sweetened wines which were liable to such a duty prior to the imposition in 1970 of an excise on commercial fresh grape wines. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Laucke)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Senate concurs with the resolution transmitted to the Senate by message No. 22 of the House of Representatives relating to the appointment of a joint committee to examine and report on certain matters relating to prices. 
That the provisions of the resolution so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
That the foregoing resolutions be communicated to the House of Representatives by message. 
I do not intend to say a lot about this matter. I wish to draw attention to some of the provisions of the message which we received from the House of Representatives, particularly in the opening paragraph which states: 
That a joint committee be appointed to inquire into and, as appropriate, report on - 
complaints arising from prices charged by private industry; 
movements in prices of goods and services in particular fields or sections of private industry, for example, as measured by price indices; and 
such other matters relating to prices as may be referred to the committee by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
At the outset I say that there has been communicated to me - if I may be allowed to anticipate this to a degree - an amendment which was moved in the other place and  which shortly the Opposition intends to move here. It will add after the words 'private industry' the words 'and public sector'. The reason we did not put in the words 'and public sector' in the first place is that it seems to us that already there is control of the public sector in this Parliament, either through statutory boards or through direct ministerial control. Already we get annual reports from various Government bodies and at Budget time the estimates are examined, and it seems to us that it would be an unnecessary cluttering up of the proposed joint parliamentary committee to include the public sector. For instance, if we started to examine an institution such as the Post Office, presuming that an inquiry had not been instituted, obviously the Parliament would bog down because it would involve an examination of proposals to raise the price of communications, whether they be postal, telephone or telegraph. This committee is starting off almost in a vacuum, it would seem to me at this initial stage, in its examination of prices. Firstly, let me say that we do not pretend that this will be an easy exercise. If it were easy, we would not have the inflationary problems that we have throughout the world today, the steady rate of inflation we have had in Australia up until the last few years and the rapidly growing rate of inflation since then. What we are asking for in this proposal is an opportunity to get the Parliament interested, to give the Parliament an opportunity to examine complaints from the public, and to be able to send for papers and people which means that we would be able to obtain information from such people as economists and scientists. Also available to the committee would be the masses of information that are gathered in the universities and other places from which the committee would think fit to gather it. Additionally the committee would be able to examine not only complaints from the public but also those matters which would be referred to it by either House of the Parliament. This is not to be the beginning and the end of an attempt to curb inflation; it is only the beginning. As honourable senators know, at a later stage we intend to set up a prices justification board. We believe that this proposal could be the vehicle for gathering evidence and gaining experience which will be of great assistance to the proposed prices justification board when it is set up. 
Certain bodies in Australia - the Tariff Board immediately comes to mind - have an impact on prices. It could well be that, because of the impact it would have on some places in the private sector, it could well come within the purview of this committee. The committee could look at the standard barometers that we have accepted over the years to see whether the consumer price index is a good index. But more importantly, as was put into the recommendation from the other place, the committee could look at prices in the various sectors, because how often do we hear that in one quarter the price of housing rose and in another quarter the price of food rose? It seems that this is a field which needs examination in order to obtain some knowledge and to effect some control. 
I think undoubtedly the setting up of such a committee would lift the level of debate in this Parliament because of the additional information that would be available through our own colleagues. I emphasise that this is only the beginning. It could be described as a virgin paddock to which the members of the committee will have to put their plough. To operate effectively the committee will require the goodwill of the members on both sides of the Parliament. It will involve a great deal of trial and error in the first place. I can imagine some of the communications that the members of the committee when it is set up will receive from the general public. That sort of thing happens all the time in Government departments, anyway. After the members of the committee have gained some experience, they will be able to sift through those communications and report back to the Parliament. They will be able to prepare themselves for the other activities which obviously the Government will need to undertake if we are to grapple with this thing called inflation. Although at the time of the depression Keynes came along with a solution and said what ought to be done, no economist or scientist in the world has been able to tell us how to grapple with inflation. There is always a political debate on these matters. Everyone has his own ideas on, say, whether wages alone cause inflation or whether wages form merely part of the inflationary process. I emphasise that the proposed committee has wide powers of reference. These powers very deliberately have been drawn widely. I think it would be foolish to try to draw narrow lines at this stage because the committee's powers always can be amended in the future in the light of experience if the committee and this Parliament so think. 1 know that other honourable senators want to say something about this matter. I suggest to the Opposition that it think about whether it should move an amendment to introduce the words 'the public sector' into the proposition at this stage. It seems to me that it would have the effect of doubling up in the investigations that would be made in these areas. I repeat that the Parliament already has control of the public sector and already has access to information on the public sector, but it is denied those things in relation to the private sector. What we are trying to do is to get a foot in the door for this Parliament. To date in this area we have had nothing. I suggest that the amendment proposed by the Opposition should not be moved at this stage. I think that there will be plenty of opportunity to do so after the committee is set up. Maybe the time to examine such an amendment would be when we are getting to the stage of setting up a prices justification board. It seems that it would be unwise to run into a head-on clash with the House of Representatives on an issue such as this. 1 think that largely such a proposal would be unworkable because I just could not imagine how this committee could examine, let us say, complaints about electricity which was being supplied- from the States. Nor could I imagine how it could examine complaints about fares or, as I have said, the Postmaster-General's Department, which at present is not within the purview of the committee but which, in years to come, could well be within its terms of reference. I suggest that the Senate should accept the proposal and give it a try. Let us get started. Let us get members of both Houses of the Parliament and from both sides of the Parliament working as a team. Let us see how we go in the next 12 months and have a look at the situation at that stage. 
On 7th March,  Senator Sim  asked me the following question without notice: 
In view of the Prime Minister's suggestion - that is putting it kindly- that the ownership of Taiwanese vessels visiting Australian ports could be subject to legal challenge by Peking, will the Government advise the Parliament as to the position of Taiwanese vessels visiting Japan, Canada and other nations wilh which Taiwan no longer had diplomatic relations? If Taiwanese vessels are able to enter the ports of these countries freely without the threat of legal challenge will the Government explain why the position in Australia is different 
I said I had not seen the statement by the Prime Minister, but that I would find the answers for the honourable senator. I now wish to give the following answer: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs on 20th December 1972 warned that, when Australia recognised the Government of the People's Republic of China, persons then purchasing property in Australia from 'the Government (or Embassy or Consulates) of the Republic of China' risked having their title challenged on the ground that the property belonged to the Government of the People's Republic of China which had not authorised sale. 
It will be seen that the warning - the only warning Issued on the subject of possible legal challenges - addressed itself to a quite different situation from the one envisaged by  Senator Sim,  viz, a legal challenge by Peking on the ownership of Taiwanese vessels visiting Australian ports. 
It is, no doubt, a theoretical possibility that the Chinese Government might attempt to challenge the ownership of Taiwanese vessels visiting Australian ports. But the Government knows of no instance or country in the last 20 years in which China has acted in this way. In the unlikely event that such a challenge were made in Australia, the Government would view the dispute as a legal matter which would be for the Australian Courts to decide. 
The responses to enquiries made in a representative selection of countries no longer in diplomatic relations with Taiwan indicate that the position in those countries is essentially no different from the position, as just outlined, in Australia. 
On 14th March,  Senator Jessop  asked the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs but he may wish to seek enlightenment from the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the proposed trade mission to the People's Republic of China in May this year, which is to be headed by  Dr Cairns  and  Sir Ian  McLellan, and which is to establish friendly and valuable relations. I suggest that this question should be answered without reference to the previous Government In view of the confusion existing in Japan and Taiwan over the radical changes in the foreign policy of Australia under the Australian Labor Party Government, and because Japan has been our major customer and Taiwan has had substantial trading relations with Australia, will the Government also arrange for this delegation to visit Japan and Taiwan in order to ensure the continuance of established trade relationships with those countries? 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government does not consider it necessary for this particular mission to visit Japan in light of the continuous exchange of views between the 2 countries at ministerial, official and commercial levels, and of the harmonious trade relationship already prevailing. 
There is no formal recognition between Australia and Taiwan, hence there is no question of  a  delegation of this nature visiting that area. 
I will answer the last part of the Question first. No, if this report is true, it is not a move to destroy SEATO. No relationship exists between the 2 factors. I understand that Thai officers have been trained at this College but I do not know from what date. I am not sure what the future training program is but I will find out the details and let the honourable senator have them. 
The circumstances were because of the Bosnian raid, but where in Bosnia that was I cannot pinpoint exactly for the honourable senator. I am a bit vague as to the exact date. Somebody may prompt me on that. I do not know exactly the date of the arrest. I could find out for the honourable senator. 
There is information of the Bosnian raid in the Department.  I  think the detail has been pretty well publicised. 
I  understood it was published in the papers.  I  do not think there was any secret that there was a Bosnian raid. 
All right. The second question is: Will I be able to table those documents?  1  will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I have not seen any report that people were arrested while in Yugoslavia visiting their relatives, but I will certainly have the matter checked out and let the honourable senator know. 
I think this would come more within the responsibility of the Attorney-General. I shall try to find out what I can for the honourable senator as to whether there is a connection and I shall let him know. 
A little while ago I answered that I did not discuss this matter with any of the Yugoslavs who visited Australia. I do not know whether anybody else did. 
Yes. Merely the carrying of an Australian passport or any other passport does not give one a licence to break the law. 
I do not know whether any such visit has been made. I will certainly make inquiries to find out. 
I do not know whether we have. I will certainly find out and let the honourable senator know. 
At the time to which  Senator Little  has referred the documents were not declassified. Therefore they would not have been made public and they would not be in the hands of any of the Yugoslav authorities. 
I  do not have any knowledge of the activities of A. Wander Ltd. 
I think I should get some information from the Treasurer and give it to the honourable senator. 
I will find out the details and let the honourable senator have them. 
I am not sure what happened in those far off days, but my recollection is that the information we had was that these people were killed in the raid. 
Frankly, 1 do not know, but 1 can find out for the honourable senator. 
If this gentleman is an Australian citizen, yes, we will do that. 
Yes. I think it has been advertised in the newspapers very widely. At the moment  Mr Whitlam  got to know of this, he lodged the protest. 
The team visiting Australia at the moment is visiting unofficially. Its members are not the guests of the Government. 
You have asked me a question and I am answering it for you. It is an unofficial team; it was not invited here by the Australian Government and no arrangements have been made for its members to see Ministers in their official capacities. At the moment we recognise the Government of North Vietnam and we recognise the Government of South Vietnam. There are no negotiations going on with the PRG at the moment on the question of recognition. 
Yes, we are very concerned about the rights of Australian citizens. That is why the Prime Minister protested immediately to the Yugoslav Government about the execution of 3 people who were naturalised Australians. We ask that in all cases in which any Australian citizen is arrested in any country for any offence, whether it be minor or major, we be informed so that our embassy in the country concerned can take an interest in the matter and do whatever it possibly can. We are entering into negotiations and are having further talks with the Yugoslav Government about this very difficult question concerning those countries in the world, one of which is Yugoslavia, that recognise dual citizenship. We hope that arising out of these negotiations this matter will be cleared up and that we will be able to establish the situation in the way we want it. As to establishing a public inquiry, I do not think that this is the type of inquiry we should have. We have already made known the Government's protests. I believe that they express the right attitude with which everybody would agree. We are concerned about this. I think that the talks ought to be allowed to develop to see how we can improve the matter in the future. 
I do not think there would be any objection to anybody visiting any part of the world. We would have no objection to it. On what business people wanted to go would be entirely their own concern; we would not ask them why they were going. 
 Senator Guilfoyle  is right: The Prime Minister made an immediate protest and, as everybody knows, he did not have the full information at that time. The present situation is that our Ambassador is having talks with the authorities in Yugoslavia concerning this vexed question of dual citizenship. As I said earlier, we want to be informed by any country if any of our nationals - no matter how they became nationals - are charged. It does not matter what the charge is, whether a minor charge or a serious charge; we expect to be informed so that the whole weight of our representation in the country in which the person is charged can be used. From time to time this happens in certain countries. Sometimes it concerns minor charges and sometimes it concerns major charges. We always do whatever we can. We keep in touch with the people charged. We make sure that they have counsel to represent them and we do all the sorts of things which we would do for people charged in our own country. 
A problem has arisen regarding the Yugoslav Government's attitude to dual citizenship. The Prime Minister has ordered that special talks be held to try to reach the position where the situation in Yugoslavia regarding dual citizenship is exactly the same as that in any other country. 
I did not question  Mr Bijedic  or  Mr Vidovic  with whom I had talks because the information which we had at that stage was that these men had been killed in the raid on Bosnia. It was not within our knowledge that these people were being held in gaol. Therefore I certainly did not raise this matter and I doubt that anybody else did. 
No, we have not had a reply to our protest and we have not had an indication of when the reply will come. If, in our judgment, the reply is being long delayed we will press the Yugoslav Government for a reply. 
While I am on my feet I would like to point out that  Senator Young  - at least I think it was  Senator Young;  I have been asked several questions and I am a little confused as to who asked them - asked me  a  question to which I was unable to give an answer at the time. I think it was  Senator Young  who asked me whether we had made any representations to try to ascertain some details of the trial. My information is that we have sought details of the trial. 
I will put it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this be done. However, I make the suggestion that if the information we are seeking is not long delayed it may pay us to wait so that this information can be incorporated in any statement that  Mr Whitlam  may decide to make. 
The .answer to  Senator Rae's  first question is yes, we were informed at the time of the Bosnian raid that; all the participants in it were killed. The honourable senator asked which of the statements we now believe. I believe the second one. This matter has been drawn to the attention of the Yugoslavs. 
The question of dual nationality has been underlined' by the incidents in Yugoslavia. I repeat that we want to protect our citizens wherever they are and whenever ' they are in trouble, irrespective of whether they may be in minor or major violation of the law. I should think, although I do not know specifically, that we would have taken up this matter with Greece. It may be that there are other countries where these problems will arise. If so I am certain that after the Yugoslav talks our interest will be extended to those other countries. 
I did not have any conversations at that level. I do not know whether anybody else did. After all when a dignitary from another country is visiting one's country one does not go over the whole gamut of the problems that can arise between nations. It is all right to be very wise after the event. I repeat that I did not have any conversations and I doubt whether anybody else did. 
No, I was not aware, by means of departmental records, of this matter. 1 do not know that the Department was at fault in not briefing me on it. 1 had general discussions, along with  Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Murphy,  with the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia and these other people. We decided at that meeting that it was a bit silly for us to sit there, so the meeting broke up until the following day. I spent a couple of hours with a representative of the Yugoslav Foreign Ministry. These things were not mentioned. We were talking about world affairs and that type of thing. 
 I do not quite get the significance of the question. The Prime Minister of any country who comes to Australia will be received in a proper manner, and we did this in relation to the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia. 
If a person comes to Australia properly accredited as the Prime Minister of a country, I think the Australian Government will accept that. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Senate about certain decisions that the Government has made concerning Christmas Island. The only commercial activity on Christmas Island is the extraction and export of rock phosphate and phosphate dust. The life of the commercially usable portion of the phosphate deposit at expected rates of extraction is about 20 years. When the phosphate industry ceases to operate there will be no economic future on the Island for the Asian residents that would be appropriate to their experience and skills. There are no indigenous inhabitants of Christmas Island. Asian workers brought mainly from Singapore have been employed in the Island's phosphate industry since mining by the Christmas Ialand Phosphate Co. began in 1899. Most of the present Asian resident population came to theIsland since World War II or were born there. Since 1966, almost all workers brought to the Island have been on 3-year terms of employment and have been repatriated at the end of their contracts. Prior to this, Asian workers were recruited for indefinite stay. At 30th June 1972, the resident Asian population, excluding contract or fixed term employees, was 1,856, and was made up of 911 Chinese, 494 Cocos Malays - originally from the Cocos (Keeling) Islands - 22 Eurasians, 124 Indonesians, 5 Indians and 300 Malays. By and large, they are an industrious, law abiding community with an exceptionally good record of racial harmony. 
Most of the people who came to the Island as adults had little formal education but have acquired useful skills as a result of their employment in the phosphate industry. Those who came as children or were born there have had the benefit of primary and secondary education. The curriculum is based on the Singapore curriculum with some modifications and senior students sit for the University of London general certificate of education. A technical training centre provides appren ticeship courses for school leavers and technical training for secondary school students. Those who successfully complete the apprenticeship course gain qualifications conferred by the Western Australian authorities. Various improvements to the educational system recommended by an educational adviser in 1970 are being made as rapidly as possible. Under an agreement entered into in 1958, the phosphate operations are controlled by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission on behalf of the Australian and New Zealand governments, each of which has a 50 per cent share in the enterprise. This agreement superseded a similar agreement entered into in 1949, the year after the Australian and New Zealand governments acquired the mining rights from the Christmas Island Phosphate Co. The Commission employs the British Phosphate Commissioners to manage the mining and other operations and it is the Commissioners who employ the majority of the Asian workers on Christmas Island. 
Phosphate from Christmas Island is of high grade and is the cheapest source for both Australia and New Zealand. Christmas Island supplies about one-third of the 2 countries' total requirements of phosphate rock. In addition, about 150,000 tons of phosphate dust are exported annually to Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. Christmas Island has been an Australian Territory under the control of the Commonwealth since 1st October 1958. when Australia took over control from Britain. Under the agreement with the New Zealand Government, the net expenditure of the Territory's administration is met by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. Under the Christmas Island Act 1958, adults who were British subjects and ordinarily resident on the Island on 1st October 1958 could opt for Australian citizenship within 2 years of that date. Those who were not 21 years on that date could opt for Australian citizenship on turning 21 years and up to 2 years thereafter. People born on Christmas Island on or after 1st October 1958 are Australian citizens by birth. At 30th June 1972, 497 Asian residents of Christmas Island were Australian citizens by birth or exercise of an option. 
Because there will be no economic future for the Asian residents of Christmas Island when the phosphate industry ceases to operate, the Government has decided that such residents who are not on fixed terms of employment should be given the opportunity to resettle progressively elsewhere at a rate that will not adversely affect the operations of the phosphate industry and will enable replacement to be made by recruitment of contract or fixed term workers. Many of the Asian residents have greater ties with Singapore or Malaysia than with Australia and are likely to opt to go to those countries if they are accepted. Some 1,250 appear to have clear rights to go to Singapore, Malaysia or Indonesia through their possession of the citizenship of those countries. The remainder have Australian citizenship - about 500 - or undetermined citizenship - about 90. Those Asian residents who are not contract or fixed term workers and who are Australian citizens will be entitled to residence in Australia on application. Such applicants will be counselled to arrange employment and accommodation before coming here. Those Asian residents who are not contract or fixed term workers and who are not Australian citizens will be accepted for residence in Australia on application subject to availability of employment and accommodation and to health and character checks where deemed necessary. Those who did not qualify for residence in Australia under these provisions but who were not able to go to another country would be regarded, in principle, as acceptable for residence in Australia. 
Resettlement will be a gradual and voluntary process. Every effort will be made to equip the people for resettlement through education and training on the Island, scholarships, resettlement grants and appropriate reception arrangements. This will be done for all permanent Asian residents, irrespective of the country in which they settle. A resettlement committee comprising officers of the Departments of Immigration, External Territories and Labour will oversight the arrangements. Subject to negotiations at present being carried out with the New Zealand authorities, the Christmas Island Agreement Act 1958 will be amended to permit the Christmas Island Special Fund to be drawn on progressively to finance measures to facilitate resettlement. As the Act now stands the fund can only be used immediately prior to the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission ceasing to function. This fund is being built up by a levy on each ton of phosphate rock exported from the Island and now stands at approximately $2m. The Christmas Island Acf will also be amended to enable young people on the Island who may now under that Act opt for Australian citizenship at 21 years, to opt from 16 years with parents' consent. This would bring Christmas Island into line with Australia, where young migrants may become Australian citizens at 16 years with parents' consent. 
These people have rendered a service to Australia by helping to operate an industry that has been and still is extremely valuable to Australia. The decisions are also in keeping with the spirit of an undertaking given in 1958, when Christmas Island was taken over by Australia, that any applications for entry to Australia by Asian residents of the Island would be given sympathetic consideration. The Australian Government accepts that it must look ahead to the time when the phosphate industry will cease to function and the Asian residents will no longer have a source of income on the Island. It is confident that by giving the Asian residents the opportunity to resettle off the Island in a planned, gradual way, the Government will be discharging Australia's obligations towards these people and will be acting in their best interests. The Government for its part will be making every effort to ensure that resettlement proceeds smoothly without disruption to the phosphate industry or adverse effects on the people concerned. I am happy to say that this policy was endorsed by the former Government, and this ensures a bi-partisan approach to tha human problems involved. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
(8.45) - 1 do not want to delay the Senate. This debate is merely referring to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter: Thailand. As this session gets under way, we are starting to pick up some of the matters with which we were dealing in the previous Parliament. The Committee will bring down its recommendation as was done in reference to Japan. There is only one point I throw in for consideration of the honourable senator who has moved this motion and of the Committee itself. I think that the Committee did this when it considered the reference on Japan. When we have a reference as wide as that of Thailand, it reminds me of the motion which I think was carried and which was moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in the last Parliament. It was that we should refer to these Senate committees references in tight packets which they can handle. From the debate tonight, it appears that the interest lies in the strategic position of Thailand, the insurgency that has taken place for so long on its borders and the whole question of the strategic situation in South East Asia. I have no great objection to this. But I just wonder, for the sake of having things done a little more neatly and making it easier for the Departments concerned to look at these matters, whether something more definite could not be stated in the reference. It may well be that the Committee will decide that it will not look at the whole subject of Thailand, embracing such questions as new temples versus old, and aid for Thailand versus aid for other South East Asian countries but that it will just examine the strategic situation. I offer no objection to the motion. I just put forward the suggestion that this matter could be taken up by the Committee on this occasion. But I also suggest that in any future references, the more specific the Senate could be the more effective the work of the Committee concerned would be in the final analysis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Thanks to  Senator Withers,  I think that we have reached a solution by which the request of the Australian Democratic Labor Party can be accommodated. I certainly have no great objection to the DLP being represented on this Committee. I think there would be advantages in having views covering as wide a spectrum as possible in the Parliament and in its committees.  Senator Byrne  accepts that perhaps this could have been done differently. Perhaps we could have had talks about the matter. I do not think that this is a serious problem, especially if  Senator Withers*  most generous offer is taken up by the DLP. 

 Senator McManus has said that he has not seen any reports from the House Committee. I remember a couple of them. One was on the rights of and facilities to be provided to  senators. That report presented by the House Committee contained some rather revolutionary proposals. One report that I am sure  Senator McLaren  will remember - I have a copy of it in my hand - is the report by the Senate House, Committee relating to senators' dress in the Senate chamber. I would have thought that everybody would remember that report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On 6th March 1973,  Senator Negus  asked the following question, without notice: 
I preface a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory by stating that, contrary to the general view, although the wearing of seat belts in late model cars is now compulsory the accident rate on the roads of the Australian Capital Territory has not declined. I ask the Minister whether this is so because many motorists in the A.C.T. are able to exceed the speed limit by 10 to15 miles an hour and apparently get away with it? Does the Minister consider that the 'only way to keep speeds down and reduce accidents is to have governors fitted to vehicles of continual offenders? Does he consider that inability to control cars at speeds is one of the major causes of accidents? Would it not help reduce the accident rate if penalties included suspension of the car registration and driver's licence of second or third offenders charged with speeding. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The seat belt restrains the user, reducing personal injury rather than preventing accidents. Given Canberra's population growth (about 30 per cent) and increased vehicle registration and driver licensing (nearly50 per cent) over the past 4 years, the death rates and the injury rates have shown a steady decrease over that period with a particuarly sharp drop in the injury rates for 1972. 
Some drivers in the A.C.T. as elsewhere will exceed the speed limit but research evidence indicates that fast driving is not always a causal factor in traffic accidents, though it may enhance the consequences if a crash occurs. Factors like large speed differences in a traffic stream have significant consequences. 
Accidents often have multiple causes including the humans involved, the vehicles they drive or rode, the roadway systems and the overall environment in which the other three elements interact. 
Although the applicability of speed-limiting devices for cars has been the subject of extensive study, no suitable solution has been found. 
There is no guarantee that the driver under punishment would not use another vehicle if his was not registered Licences are suspended on the decision of the Courts after review of individual circumstances. 
The last part of the question asks what action will be taken. So obviously it is a question for the Minister for the Capital Territory. I will refer it to him for a reply. 
 Mr 

 Deputy President, the Standing Orders provide that the senator who raises a matter of public importance and the Minister who replies should be allowed to speak for half an hour. But as  Senator Wheeldon  is not yet a Minister, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Wheeldon  from speaking for a further 15 minutes. 
No. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr President, this motion is most unusual. The Standing Orders do not allow for a motion to extend speaking time on this basis. If there are interruptions in the course of a speech, the time consumed by those interruptions comes out of the time of the  speaker. 
If  Senator McManus  looked at the communique which was issued at the conclusion of the Pacific Forum he would see that this question was referred to specifically during the Forum. The communique indicated that there were objections and pointed out the impossibility of some trade unions demanding equality of wages in the Pacific area with those obtained in more developed areas of the world. This was referred to in the communique which was a pretty good description of what happened at the Forum. 
The 3 Slav names which the honourable senator has mentioned are not familiar to me personally . 
Yes, there is very great concern by my Government about it and that has been proved by the fact that we have protested about the happenings and the execution of 3 dual nationals and by the fact that our embassy over there has been instructed to take up this whole matter, not only now but for the future, of dual nationals or Australians who are caught in Yugoslavia. We have been promised that the Foreign Minister himself will discuss this with our Ambassador. 
 Mr President,  while I am on my feet may I have permission to answer questions asked yesterday to which I was unable to give specific answers and to which I now have answers? It might be of assistance if you,  Sir, would  allow me to give the extra information now. Yesterday  Senator Davidson  asked this question: 
My question, which is directed to the Special Minister of State . . . refers to the execution of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia and in particular to reports that some persons who did not take part in the so-called Bosnian incident were arrested while visiting relatives. I ask: Has the Government followed up these reports? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the details of any action taken as a result of inquiries made? 
We have made inquiries about 10 people who are in the category which  Senator Davidson  referred to. We have been promised the information but the information is to be given to us without prejudice to the legal principle that these persons are Yugoslav nationals. 
I was also asked a question by  Senator Jessop,  namely: 
When, where and in what circumstances were the 3 Australian citizens - Horvat, Keskic and Vlashnovic - arrested in Yugoslavia? 
On 20th June 1972 an armed group of 19 terrorists entered Yugoslavia illegally intending to cause material damage, provoke civil war and jeopardise the contitutionally established order of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - we do not know exactly where; it is not in the files of the Foreign Affairs Department. We assume it was in West Bosnia. 
When did the trials of these 3 men take olace What was the nature of the trials- court or military, secret or public? What charges were made against the accused? 
The information we have is that the trial was by military court in the first instance in Sarajevo, in December 1972. There was an appeal to the Supreme Military Court which was dismissed and an appeal to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Supreme Court which was dismissed. The Presidency confirmed sentences on the dual nationals but commuted the fourth. Our information is that the trials - these are the words that we have been given by the Yugoslav Government - were not secret but they were not advertised. (Opposition senators interjecting) - 

 - Mr President, I am giving information that has been given to this Government by another government, and I think it is the right of the Senate to have that information. I might point out also that this incident did not occur during the regime of this present Government.  Senator Hannan  asked the. following question: 
Has the Australian Ambassador in Yugoslavia or any of his officers or any official acting on behalf of the Australian Government visited or sought to visit the Australian citizen Ludvig Pavolovic who is reported to be serving a long gaol sentence for alleged offences similar to those for which the 3 men were executed? If no such visit has been made, why not? 

 Mr Pavolovic is not an Australian citizen. Therefore the Australian Government has no grounds on which it can approach the Yugoslav Government. 
What specific evidence is in the possession of the Australian Government which has linked each or any of the 4 Australian citizens executed or imprisoned in Yugoslavia with any alleged Croatian terrorist activities in Australia? 
Trial proceedings are awaited from the Yugoslav Government, but the specific evidence question has been referred to the Attorney-General's Department for advice. There were not 4 Australians but 3 dual nationals only. Pavolovic, as I have just said, is not an Australian and had never been in Australia. 
-- Early this week we sent a cable to Saigon and I think I should read to the Senate the information that I now have on this matter. It is as follows: 
After the withdrawal of Australian forces and the ending of military assistance to South Vietnam, Australia ceased to be a party to the conflict in Vietnam. Nor is Australia a party to the ceasefire agreement, or the Final Act of the Paris Conference on Vietnam. The Australian Government does not therefore have any special standing with regard to the treatment of civilian prisoners by the various Vietnamese governments and parties concerned, although it is sensitive to the humanitarian issues involved. 
The question of the release of civilian prisoners held by either side in South Vietnam is, according to the agreement and protocols on the ceasefire which were signed on 27th January, to be resolved between the two South Vietnamese parties. 
The Australian Government believes that the best course at this stage is to allow this negotiating process an opportunity to work itself out. 
The RVN and PRG have already agreed on the exchange of substantial numbers of prisoners. However, there have been some delays in exchanges because members of the International Commission for Control and Su'pervision-ICCS-have been dissatisfied with security guarantees provided for ICCS members in connection with the exchanges. 
In regard to the 5 YCW leaders about whom enquiries have been received from concerned Australian individuals and groups, it is understood that the South Vietnamese Government intends to release 4 of the 5. The fifth may face civil charges. Although it was earlier thought that the four had already been released, there now seems to be some doubt, and we are awaiting confirmation. 
The Government will continue to watch developments. 
 Mr President,  I quite understand your error in calling the AttorneyGeneral 
Well, the honourable senator asked me yesterday, and I will try to give him the answer today. I do not know who were the experts who assisted  Senator Murphy,  if the Press report was true. I have no idea. 
Yes.  Senator Gair  asked me a question yesterday regarding the training of Thai officers at Queenscliff. I did not have the information then, but I have some information now. It is true that Thailand has had a student on each Queenscliff course since 1958 and has one there now. It is not true that the Australian Government has decided not to offer to students from Thailand in future any places at Queenscliff or other Australian training establishments. No such proposal has been considered by the Government. Applications from Thailand will be considered in the light of the places available and the number of applications received from other countries. 
What did happen earlier this year was that the Thais requested that in future we set aside a place for an officer from Thailand each year at Queenscliff. This request was not granted. No country has ever been given a guarantee of continued annual placement of an officer at Queenscliff and, in the current circumstances of intense pressure on the facility, no such guarantee could be contemplated. Subsequently, the Thais requested a place for the 1974 course. They were advised on 1st March that a response would be given in August when all applications from overseas countries had been considered and the number of places available to overseas countries was known. That is still the position. This matter must be seen in the context of diminishing spare places at Queenscliff but rising demand from overseas. For the 1973 course, there were only 4 spare places - the fewest ever - but 13 places were requested by overseas countries - the highest ever. If a similar situation obtains this year, it will be necessary once again to disappoint a number of applicant countries. 
In answering the question yesterday I said that I was not sure of the situation but I thought that if a person came to Australia properly accredited as the Prime Minister of a country the Australian Government would accept that. I think that statement stands. Earlier today I answered another question which  Senator Marriott  asked. 
He has that one. I did not think I misunderstood him yesterday. 1 have some information for  Senator Marriott  on this matter.  Mr Bijedic's  correct title is  President  of the Federal Executive Council of Yugoslavia. However, to some extent the Federal Executive Council is equivalent to our Federal Cabinet. Therefore  Mr Bijedic  is usually described as the Prime Minister. That is the term which is given him by the 'International Who's Who 1972-73'. In official ranking, the Federal Executive Council is below the Collective Presidency, which is headed by  President  Tito and which comprises 23 persons, including 3 members from each of 6 republics and 2 members from the autonomous provinces.  President  Tito is reported to be planning to reduce this body to 6 members in the next round of constitutional amendments to increase its efficiency. The Collective Presidency is responsible for formulating policies, and the Executive Council is responsible for their execution. However, in practice, the Executive Council probably shares to a considerable extent in the responsibility for determining policy, especially on matters of technical detail. The Foreign Minister, for example, is a member of the Executive Council. 
I have noticed the announcement. We are watching very carefully the situation in Indo-China. However, the provisions of the agreement on the end of the war are still being worked out, and we are hopeful of a continuation of moves towards a settlement. There have been accusations from both sides of breaches of the agreement. Our policy on aid relates to aid to the whole of Indo-China as it is required. Therefore, this will include North Vietnam. Assistance to traditional recipients of Australian aid is continuing. The Department of Foreign Affairs is still working on appropriate assistance for North Vietnam. 
The information which was in our possession, and which had been given to the previous Government, when  Mr Bijedic  arrived here was that these people had been killed during the battle that took place in Bosnia. Therefore, we did not raise this question with him. As I said yesterday, it is very easy to be wise after the event and ask why all sorts of things were not raised. 
 I thought you asked why we did not raise this question. 
Your Government had been given the information that these people were already dead. It was not until very recently that we were given the information by the Yugoslav Government that they were executed on 17th March. It is all right to have hindsight but why would we raise the question? Does the honourable senator want it to be a matter of standard practice that we ask every Prime Minister who visits this country whether he is holding any Australian national iri gaol, whether anyone has been executed, and what has happened to a couple of fellows - - 
I certainly do not want to be put in that position with every Prime Minister or similar person who comes here. Does the honourable senator suggest that if  President  Nixon or  Mr Heath  came here we should ask them what they had done or will do with people who are Australian nationals or people who have dual nationality? The fact is that the former Australian Government did. not do very much about this either. If the honourable senator looks at the papers that were tabled in the House of Representatives he will see that the then Australian Government refused to make any approaches to .the Yugoslav Government. 
Tonight, being Wednesday night, the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, as they always are on Wednesday nights. So, we can expect that a motion dealing with some matter of Urgency, so-called in the parlance of the parliament, will be ' moved. Already, speakers in the debate have drawn attention to the very peculiar wording and drafting of the matter now before the Senate.  Senator Hannah  opened the debate for the 
Opposition and his was the first signature on the motion calling the attention of the Parliament to the fact that this was a matter of very great urgency. All business of the Senate is suspended while this matter of urgency is debated. It is so urgent that of the 30 minutes of speaking time allocated to  Senator Hannan  he took only 17 minutes; and for about 14 minutes of his time his remarks had nothing to do with the motion.  Senator Wheeldon,  who must own a crystal ball, said that this debate would develop into the ageold Vietnam debate. That is precisely what it has turned out to be. 
Before I continue my remarks, I want to point out some of the errors - I really cannot call them anything but deliberate misstatements - made by  Senator Hannan.  Firstly, he said that we have withdrawn civilian aid from Vietnam. There is no truth in that. It has been said several times. In fact, the figures show that in the last year of the previous Government $3.02m was spent on aid to Vietnam. Some of that amount would have been spent on military aid. This year, under the Labor Government, $5. 15m will be spent on civilian aid alone. I leave to the imagination of honourable senators how  Senator Hannan,  who prepared and moved this motion on behalf of the Opposition, could overlook, such a figure. 
It is to be spent in South Vietnam alone. The amount to be spent is almost double what the previous Government spent, and its civilian aid was combined with military aid. We will spend that amount on civilian aid alone. Not only are we continuing the aid; we are expanding it. Secondly,  Senator Hannan  said that the Government has promised $78m worth of aid to North Vietnam. There is not one atom of truth in that. Thirdly, he said that  Mr Barnard  refused to accept a visit to Australia by the  President  of South Vietnam,  Mr Thieu.  Again, there is not one atom of truth in that. 
He did not doubt anything at all. The fact is that there has been no application from the South Vietnamese Government or any suggestion that  President  Thieu is to come to Australia.  Senator Sim  was just about to say that when unfortunately his time expired. Somebody writes such things in newspaper articles, and supposedly experienced politicians take up such statements and make these deliberate misstatements. It is bad enough when this is done in the field of domestic politics and the misstatements are thrown at the Government; but, when it is done in relation to other countries, it takes on a much more seriouscomplexion.  Senator Sim  said that there was a crude vulgarity about the attacks on the United States of America by some members of the Australian Government. He did not seem to think about his crude vulgarity when he attacked his own Government and said that the foreign policy of Australia was being run by 2 Manchester Jews. It seems to me that that statement involved a fair bit of crude vulgarity. Also, he tried to draw tha line and say that what somebody in Australia says damages our relationships with other countries. 1 have yet to learn from members of the previous Government that his statement created any difficulties overseas. I do not think that the Israelis were upset about it, and I do not think that the people in Manchester were upset about it either. 
A fourth complete misstatement made by  Senator Hannan  - this is the subject of the socalled debate on a matter of urgency - was that there was an official delegation from the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. Of course, the honourable senator knows, as everybody else knows, that there is not one atom of truth in this. The delegation is completely unofficial. It consists of 3 persons from North Vietnam and 3 persons from the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. Both these groups represent the peace committees of their respective areas. They were invited to Australia by a private organisation known as the Peace Group of Australia. All 6 members of the delegation are travelling on North Vietnamese passports which are issued by a government that Australia recognises. An attempt has been made to blow up an allegation that they are travelling on Provisional Revolutionary Government passports. The fact is that they are not. They are travelling on passports of a government that we recognise. 
As I said in answer to a question, 1 think yesterday, the members of this delegation have not been met by any Minister in the Australian Government in his official capacity. This would be done if the delegation were from the official government of a country that we recognise. It is a fact that  Dr Cairns,  who is a member of our Cabinet, has met this delegation.  Senator Hannan  made great play of the fact that a photograph was taken of  Dr Cairns  with the delegation. He said that this was a disgraceful photograph. I do not know about that. I have been photographed with members of the governments of communist countries who have come to Australia. I have seen those photographs. I did not feel uncomfortable about them. When I received the credentials of the delegate from the Government of the People's Republic of China, I was acting on behalf of the Australian Government. I did not feel uncomfortable about that. The Australian people knew before the election that we would be recognising that Government. Therefore, on the election of the Labor Government, it was the will of the Australian people that this should happen. When I act in my capacity as a Minister of the Australian Government I do not feel embarrassed or upset. Is it disgraceful that I have been photographed with members' of a communist government? I certainly do not think it. is. 
We have this photograph of  Dr Cairns  talking to the members of the delegation. He is and has been for many years a part of the peace movement of Australia. He has not made any secrets of that. When, acting in that capacity, he meets these people and has a Press conference with them, a photograph of this occasion suddenly, in the view of  Senator Hannan,  becomes a disgraceful photograph. 
The peace movement and the communists may be very close. But the fact is that the Communist Party of Australia is a legal body. It may be that  Senator Gair  does not like these people. He does not seem to like a lot of people. It may be that he does not agree with other political parties in Australia. But the fact is that this is a recognised political party in Australia. It is not a banned party. If people, however much we might disagree with them, want to join that political party and take part in its activities, how can it be made out that they should not be able to do this?  Senator Gair  says that the peace movement is close to the corns. I may say that a person is close to the Australian Democratic Labor Party and that is a disgrace. 
No, I was never close to the Movement. 
Oh no, 1 was not. 
I am denying it. To suggest, as the motion does, that a Minister meeting an unofficial delegation represents a condonation of terrorism is to make a mockery and a farce of the forms of the Parliament. Somebody meets an unofficial delegation from another country; honourable senators opposite say that therefore the Australian Government condones terrorism. Just how ridiculous can things get? The suggestion of condonation of terrorism- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  - Order! Honourable senators Will cease interjecting. 
I sympathise ' with you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  because the honourable senators who are causing all the trouble are from your Party. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! There was no need for the Minister to make that comment.' I will keep order in the Senate. 
I hope that you do,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  This suggestion of condonation of terrorism is particularly offensive in relation to  Dr Cairns  ' because he is one man who has been renowned for his strong and consistent opposition to all forms of terrorism. It is all right for members of the Opposition to pick a name. It  has been a technique of Opposition parties over the years to pick a name; any name at all Wm do. I can go back over a few years and give you a string of them. Of course, after those people are dead you are the first to rise in this Parliament and eulogise them. 
The fact is that  Dr Cairns,  however much you may agree or disagree with his strong and forthright statements, has been consistently opposed to terrorism, violence and that type of thing for a very long time. It is alleged that  Dr Cairns'  unofficial meeting with these people involves a recognition of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. Why did this not apply to the 
Government of a few months ago? Do Opposition senators not remember? What nonsense is this.  Mr Wentworth,  who was a Minister in the last Government, time and again used to attend and be photographed - he made no secret of the fact- at functions of the Captive Nations Organisation with representatives of certain governments in exile of eastern European countries.  Mr Wentworth's  attendance was never regarded as involving the previous Government in recognition of those governments in exile. Nobody ever suggested that because  Mr Wentworth  went to those functions and associated with these people - and that was his right - this would involve the previous Government in the activities of those governments in exile, if you like to put it that way. 
This motion arises out of the incapacity of the mover and the Opposition to recognise that Vietnam is moving towards peace. When the Opposition loses that I do not know what it is going to talk about. The future of Vietnam depends on a reconciliation and adoption of a new outlook. Honourable senators opposite are failing to grasp the attitude of the Australian Government to world affairs. What members of the Opposition have been saying for so long is this: 'We draw a Une across a map and those people on the other side are terrorists or baddies and all of us on this side are very good people. We are going to contain these people; we are not going to let them out' Of course, the whole world is moving away from that attitude. This Government has grasped the realities of the situation and recognises that it must maintain and improve relations with the governments of both North Vietnam and South Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has promised aid to the whole of Vietnam, since the Australian Government recognises that an urgent need for aid and reconstruction exists in all parts of that war-ravaged country. We are not concerned with the ideology of governments or of any particular person because the first thing that aid will have to do in that country is to build hospitals for people who have been injured by bombing and who will spend the rest of their lives in hospitals which have been shattered by bombing. We are not concerned whether those countries have a right wing government, a left wing government or a central government. It is a humanitarian situation and that, in my book, is what aid is all about. We should not try to control the governments of those countries. We aim to build bridges between 'people and to confirm and strengthen the peace we have at the moment and to give it. a chance to develop. 
Members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the Australian' Country Party and the Liberal Party are fussed because at long last we look like getting peace in this area. We are no longer going to draw lines. Members of the Opposition are always accusing the Labor Party of "being out of touch with the United States'. The fact is that in submitting this resolution they display that they are completely out of : touch with the United States. At Paris the Americans have to deal with the PRG just as they did with South Vietnam and North Vietnam.  Dr Kissinger  realises this as a result pf his travels throughout the world. If we are not going to deal with the realities, with the exact situation, then we are not going to hold on to the peace which at long last we  aTe:  getting in this area. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I see that my time is starting to run out-. However, I say that naturally the Press has taken a special interest in the visit of this delegation because it is news and something to build up.  Senator Hannan  has relied on the more' irresponsible parts of the Press in his attack which has of course been accompanied by the throbbbing music caused by the kicking of the communist can. 
I have not seen the statement to which the Leader of the Country Party,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  refers. The question of introducing a 35-hour working week will be decided ultimately by the Arbitration Commission and I have no doubt that the Commission will be hearing evidence such as he has suggested. Whether it comes from that quarter or from some other quarter,I am sure it will be put before the Commission, as will the trade unions' case. Whether or not we have spoken to the trade union movement about it would be a matter not for the Treasury but, I would think, for the Department of Labour. I am not aware that it has been discussed. As far as I know it has not been, but I am not sure. 
I can answer the first part of the question. The Australian Government does concern itself with civil liberties in Australia. Obviously the remainder of the question is a matter for the Attorney-General. 
No. I handled the arrangements for the visit but I was away when the parties selected their representatives. Therefore, I cannot give the honourable senator the names, but I can certainly get them for him. 
 Mr President,  1 have a long statement which was delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the other place on 12 April, the last day on which the other place sat before the Easter adjournment. Having heard your strictures, I have studied the statement and no printing complications arise from it. It has been circulated to honourable senators. I ask for leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
 I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
As we have intimated, we are willing to serve on the Committee. We have put a proposition, which has been rejected by the Senate. Earlier tonight I explained that the practice of the 
Australian Labor Party is to decide these matters in the party room. We do that on all sorts of levels. I have moved the motion so 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. that we can take the proper procedures in the party room to appoint delegates to the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. (The  President  -  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack) 
The situation as set out by  Senator Gietzelt  is correct. With regard to the People's Revolutionary Government, firstly, Australia does not recognise the PRG but it is quite useless to deny that the PRG does have a standing in the political situation that exists in Indo-China today. This fact was recognised at Paris where the United States and South Vietnam sat around the table and negotiated the Vietnam peace settlement. The position is that affairs in IndoChina cannot be ordered as one would like and one cannot draw the lines as one would probably like to have them drawn to make the situation neat and tidy. I do not think that foreign affairs with respect to any country in the world are ever neat and tidy. The position is that the PRG has political standing and was recognised in the Paris peace negotiations. Australia recognises the factual situation. 
I understand that this matter was discussed yesterday at a Press conference. I am not aware that Press statements on this subject are unobtainable. I should think they would not be difficult to obtain. 1 know it is hoped that this matter will be brought before the House of Representatives in about a week's time and that later it will be transmitted to the Senate. The honourable senator referred to harm to the business community. That is an opinion and I am not required to answer to opinions. My opinion is that that is not the situation. The proposed prices justification tribunal has been widely advertised and it was part of the Australian Labor Party's election platform which was put before the people. 1 believe it was one of the major factors that put my Party into office. It ought to be realised that the whole world is at present grappling with inflation. It is not easy to find a solution but we believe an attempt ought to be made. This is something the previous Government did not do. The prices justification tribunal will be one of the weapons that we will float into the arena and on which we will seek the blessing of Parliament in an attempt to grapple with inflation in Australia. 
Everybody knows that 17th March was the date of the executions which was given to us. If the honourable senator seriously believes that he has a document which in any way could assist the Australian Government I would advise him to write to the Department of Foreign Affairs, to  Mr Whitlam  as Minister for Foreign Affairs, or to myself as Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If the honourable senator feels seriously about the matter I think it is his duty to put it before the Australian Government; I certainly would. 
A note was given to me when I came in that the radio had reported that  Dr Fitzgerald  had said that this would not create a problem in relations with 
China. That is all 1 know. That was the report. 1 cannot guarantee that the report was correct. 1 do not understand  Senator Jessop's  comparison between France and China. 
Yes, we want to improve relations everywhere but that does not mean that we have to run away from problems. 1 do not think that improves them. Over the years, I think, that has been the problem with Australia. We have hitched ourselves on to one of the big powers and then become a suppliant to that power. I do not think that did our activities any good. I think it led us into a lot of errors. We have very good relations with France. We have good trading balances and good cultural exchanges. One point stands out. I am sure the French understand this clearly and so do we. in the talks that I have had here on this question with the French Ambassador, who is a very able and charming man, this point has been completely clear between us. It is that there is one problem. Therefore, we should be able to sit down and discuss it in a mature manner. That is the attitude we will take with the People's Republic of China. If in our protest to China and, indeed, to any other country that is exploding nuclear devices in the atmosphere, we can get our point over and have some influence without harming relationships, that is precisely what we will be doing. 
 Senator Greenwood  refers to the actions of the previous Government. He knows from the papers that were tabled in another place that he was pressing the then Foreign Minister to do something about this and related matters. The previous Foreign Minister did not yield to the honourable senator's pressures. The Ambassador was not instructed in the way that the honourable senator wanted him to be instructed at that time. That is that position. The honourable senator's specific question is: Why were the inquiries about these 10 people made on this date and not before? The situation is that after the question of the executions arose, after we sent our protest note and after our Ambassador saw the authorities in Yugoslavia, they told him that they were willing to start giving some information. When we found that there was a changed attitude on this, we instructed our Ambassador to proceed and to mention the names of these 10 people of whom 2 subsequently have been returned to Australia. I understand that the position was triggered by this terrible thing that has happened. We had a situation in which we thought we could proceed with the matter. The Yugoslav authorities had said that they were willing to give some information, not on these particular people, but on the whole general question. We grabbed that opportunity then to instruct our Ambassador to inquire about the men about whom we had received complaints. 
 I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'consist of; insert 'five Tasmanian Senators, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition'. 
As  Senator Devitt  and  Senator O'Byrne  have pointed out, the original motion which finally has been amended by  Senator Wright,  would have caused embarrassment to the Australian Labor Party because we have a timehonoured system of all appointments, no matter how humble or how high, being decided by our Caucus. This is a practice that goes back many years before I was elected to this place. I think  Senator Wright  would have known this. He may have overlooked it. I do not hold anything against him on that account. The Senate has already decided that there should be an inquiry into this subject of Tasmanian shipping, but again there is a timehonoured practice that the Government always has a majority on these committees. 
Yes, I think that on a select committee, too, the Government has a majority. After all, the burden of any decisions and any recommendations made by this Committee finally has to be carried by the Government. If expenditure is involved, then that must be a matter for the decision of the Government. The Government has been elected to carry out the wishes of the Australian people and to govern this country. I think that, if  Senator Wright  gives more mature consideration to this matter and thinks about the whole basis on which the Parliament and the Government must be run, he will agree with me. 
We are accepting the Senate's decision. The Senate is to set up a committee. All we are saying ls that it should be set up in accordance with the time-honoured custom and that this is a situation in which  Senator Wright  has to face up to the reality of what is happening.  I  have moved the amendment, I do not think  I  have to beat the drum about it. It sets out very clearly what we are asking of the Senate, now that we have accepted what  Senator Wright  has said - that there should be an inquiry into this subject and that there should be a committee of Tasmanian senators. We are agreeing with all that. However, what we are saying is that  3  senators should be nominated by the Leader of the Government - although not nominated tonight; rather that our Party should be given the chance to meet in its Party room and to make the decision, as we always do on appointments and nominations, as to who should be the senators on this Committee - and, further, that the majority of members on the Committee be given to the government of the day, as we in Opposition always agreed to. 
I  do not see that  Senator Wright  loses anything by this. I think that on mature consideration he will believe that this is right. My simple amendment is that we delete the names in  Senator Wright's  motion and, after consideration, next week the Opposition shall nominate 2 members and that the Government shall nominate  3  members. I suggest that the Senate accept the amendment. 
On 27th March 1973,  Senator Townley  addressed the following question without notice to the Minister representing the Treasurer: 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer say what new orders have been given to officers of the Taxation Office with a view to collecting any outstanding tax at an earlier time than has been the practice in the past? Is the Government in such an urgent need of money due to its recent spending that it must go to the extent of demanding such rapid tax payments as may send some people bankrupt? Finally, are repayments from the Taxation Office being held up because the Government does not have the money to repay what is owed to many taxpayer* throughout Australia? 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Section 206 of the Income Tax Assessment Act authorises the Commissioner of Taxation to grant extensions of time for payment, or permit payment to be made by such instalments and within such time as he considers the circumstances warrant. 
Where a taxpayer ls unable to meet his current year's assessment by the due date, it is the practice of the Taxation Office to grant an extension of time for payment or to permit payment by instalments In those cases where the reasons submitted by the taxpayer warrant such action. Each case ls considered on its merits and the extended time for payment depends on the circumstances of each individual case. 
There has been no change by the Commissioner of Taxation this year as compared with previous years. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (l), (2) and (3) The Government has not sought an invitation to attend the Conference of Non-Aligned Nations to be held in Algiers in September 1973. However the Government has advised some members of the non-aligned group, including the host nation Algeria, that Australia would respond to an invitation to send an observer if invited by a significant number of countries to do so. 
No. 
The Prime Minister of Yugoslavia said that he would support a proposal for Australia's attendance with observer status. 
Invitations to attend the Conference will be issued by the host country, Algeria. They are likely to include those countries which attended the 1972 Conference at Georgetown. These were listed in the Hansard of 14th September 1972 (Page 1512). 
Yes, 1 have seen a newspaper clipping on this matter. Had the matter been brought to the notice of the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Government, representations certainly would have been made. 1 have made it clear here for some time that we want to be informed of any Australian nationals who are before the courts, irrespective of whether the charge is a minor or major one. Because of the newspaper article we are making inquiries. 
As far as I know he is not visiting Australia. 
O n Thursday, 3 May,  Senator McLaren  asked me, without notice, whether I would inform the Senate of the Oppositions senators who will visit China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as representatives of the Australian Parliament in June this year. The answer to the question is as follows: 
Senatorthe Honourable Ivor Greenwood (Liberal) has been nominated forthe delegation to China and  Senator Maunsell  (Country Party) for the delegation to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report of the Treasury Committee on Superannuation. The Government has taken no stand on the report at this stage. It would be interested in receiving comments from interested persons and organisations. Copies of the report will be made available to honourable senators as soon as possible. 
 Mr President,  I would like to present a statement on the constitutional development of Papua New Guinea. A similar statement was made in another place on 3rd May by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison).  I have circulated copies of the statement. I ask leave to incorporate the statement in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The decision by the Board of the Reserve Bank to increase the Statutory Reserve Deposit ratio was taken against the background of exceptionally easy financial conditions. Bank liquidity was exceptionally high and bank lending was at record levels and expanding rapidly. The general economic situation was, and is, one of expansion. In these circumstances it appeared prudent to the Bank to modify the very easy monetary policy which had operated since December 1971. The Governor of the Reserve Bank, in announcing the increase in the Statutory Reserve Deposit ratio, emphasised that it was intended that the banking system should play its part in the provision of finance adequate to permit soundly-based expansion of the economy to continue. The Statutory Reserve Deposit action which has been taken does not involve any commitment to further action of this kind. Monetary policy in the period ahead will no doubt be determined as appropriate in the light of developments. 
I shall refer the question to the Treasurer and seek the information for the honourable senator. 
.1 have answered this question several times. There is no restriction on unofficial travel between the 2 nations. Visas are available. We are trading with Taiwan. We do not recognise it as a separate country. 
1 will get that information and let  Senator Mulvihill  have it. 
We are well aware of the attitude that the United States Government is taking on the violations of the ceasefire agreement in the Indo-China states. Our information is that each side has accused the other of various violations. As  Senator Greenwood  pointed out, we are not a party to the peace agreement. We have taken the attitude, both on the prisoner of war issue and on this matter, that as we are not a party to the agreement it is better to try to let the accords work out and try to let them achieve their own form of peace. At the moment we are not contemplating changing our attitude. We are not contemplating moving away from that situation. To do what  Senator Greenwood  suggested - to protest to Hanoi, to put pressure on Hanoi or whatever term he used - would be moving away from the Government's present position. 
I have some information in general terms. I do not think that either  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Maunsell  would expect me to endorse their expressed views as being those of this Government. But on this whole question, when the trips were first mooted I had talks with the Ambassador of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and also with the Charge d' Affairs of China. Because this is the first time that these fact finding missions - these winter trips as we term them - are to go to these 2 countries. I was at great pains to explain to the representatives of these 2 countries not only that this was not a Government delegation but also that there was a responsibility on all parties to select members to go to these countries. 
This is not directed at any of the members who are to comprise the delegations, particularly the 2 senators named, but I also explained to the representatives of these 2 countries that the members of the delegations are not necessarily senior people in their own parties. In fact, on many occasions when we vote in our party rooms our vote is based on all sorts of reasons. As 1 have said, because this is the first time that we will send delegations to these 2 countries, I explained very carefully to the representatives of these 2 countries that the delegations were not in any way Government delegations and that the members of the delegations would not necessarily be expressing the views of their own parties. I explained that they would be general fact finding missions which the previous Australian Government and the present one believed are of tremendous value. We have been sending delegations to various countries for a long time, and we are happy to send delegations to these 2 countries on this occasion. 
Yes, I understand  Mr Li  was to attend the meeting of the Pacific Basin Economic Council. He would have been informed of those conditions that apply to anyone travelling from Taiwan to Australia; that is, that he would enter Australia in an unofficial capacity. This position was altered when  Mr Sinclair,  in another place, asked  Mr Whitlam  a question about  Mr Li's  visit and mentioned that  Mr Li  was an official of the Taiwanese Government. This immediately made the issue a public one. The Government then anticipated that there would be complaints from the representatives of the People's Republic of China. Those complaints did eventuate. The Government made it very clear to the Taiwanese, and it was mentioned in this Parliament, that visas would not be issued to people who came to Australia, representing themselves as part of the Government of Taiwan, but only to those who come in a private capacity. The Government then informed  Mr Li  that it would not issue a visa for his visit. 
Several of the matters which  Senator Hannan  has mentioned he saw in the Press were drawn to my attention. I, too, saw them in the Press myself, so we agree on that part of his question. But 1 am afraid that that is as far as we can agree because the cables which we are receiving from a very old friend of ours, our Ambassadress - I think that is the term - in New Zealand have not adverted to this matter up to this time. 
I am not in a position to say whether I agree categorically or disagree with the details of any Notes that pass between the 2 governments. When 1 said both sides I meant both sides in Vietnam. But that is not important; I just mention it. I have mentioned the attitude of the Australian Gov ernment. It seems that many people really do not want to see peace in the Indo-China scene. The Australian Government does. Wc believe that at this stage, when fighting has stopped and there is at least some basis on which they can proceed, the 2 sides should be allowed to proceed. We have no official position in relation to that, as I have explained several times, and  Senator Greenwood  has agreed with me today in that regard. Our attitude at the present moment is that the best way to help peace in this area is to stay out of it at this time and to see whether the agreements can be made to work. If unfortunately the peace does not continue - it seems that would suit some people - the Australian Government will have to have a look at its stand in the light of what happens then. 
A little while ago I referred to the helpful sort of suggestions one receives in a very delicate and very difficult situation. We have stated several times that aid will be given to people in the Indo-China theatre. Obviously it cannot be given at the moment in Khmer. 
-Because they are still fighting; that is why. The very simple explanation as to why we cannot give aid there is that it is fighting. 
Never mind who is fighting, ft would be a bit silly pouring in aid when a country is at war. It is quite a ridiculous proposition. What 1 am saying is that if peace comes to that area the attitude of the Australian Government is that it will be concerned about the people - the people who will have to go into hospitals for the rest of their lives, the people who will be missing limbs and the people who have no shelter over their heads. We will not be concerned with the ideology of the government under which they live. That is the Government's broad attitude towards the whole situation. 
The question of aid has been built up under all sorts of parameters which 1 do not have to go into at the moment. The situation is that we will assist by giving aid to the people in that area when it is possible to do so. 
I was not confused as to the question. What I said was that the announced attitude of the Australian Government was that we would give atd to all of the 4 Indo-Chinese states. I pointed out that it was pretty impossible to give aid in Cambodia at the moment because the war there is continuing. I do not think that it is appropriate at this stage to deal with the question of whether we will impose this condition. I have said  -  I do not want to go over the matter again - that, in taking our attitude to people, we would not worry about the political colour of their governments. I do not think that even the United States of America, which is known for its attitudes on this matter, has ever yet linked this condition to aid. The whole question of aid is being looked at by many countries. When they deem it a proper time to move in, it will be a tremendously big aid job. Many more countries than Australia and the few others that come to mind readily will be involved. As far as 1 know, the United Stales has not linked its protests to the question of aid at the present time. 
Taking the last part of the question first, and ignoring its offensiveness, I state that my previous reply does not indicate subservience. This was a part of the agreement with the People's Republic of China that was made clear in the Senate in answer to several questions. When we enter into an agreement with a country, we believe in keeping it. The honourable senator also asked who mentioned that  Mr Li  was an official. The answer is that  Mr Sinclair  mentioned it. He asked: 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the very good work undertaken by the Pacific Basin Economic Council and' that the sixth annual meeting of the Council is to be held in Sydney this month? Also, is he aware that  Mr K.  T. Li, the Minister for Finance for Taiwan- 
He is the man who mentioned that  Mr Li  was an official. 
I have quoted  to  the honourable senator what  Mr Sinclair  said. It was his side of politics that brought this matter into the open and underlined the fact that this man was coming here and that he was an official. That is where the whole matter blew up. 
At the time of the bombing, a time when we believed that peace should be brought about in the Indo-China states, the Prime Minister did protest to the  President  of the United States of America. At the same time the Canadian Parliament unanimously passed a motion condemning the bombing. So Australia was not the only country which condemned the bombing at that time.  Senator Greenwood  takes the line that because there is still not complete peace in the IndoChina states we should be protesting to somebody about what is happening. We are most anxious to do everything that in our considered judgment can be of assistance in bringing about a permanent peace in that area. The previous Government, after many years, at least started to withdraw Australian troops from the area. We will do whatever is possible which would, in our judgment, help to sustain the very tenuous peace existing in the region today. We certainly will not be goaded into doing something that might upset that peace by people who should think about the delicate situation in that area if they really want to see peace brought about. 
I am not aware that they have been withdrawn. I pointed out in a debate the other night that last year under the previous Government $3. 02m in aid was given to South Vietnam. Some of that was in thu form of war materials. In the coming year that figure will be increased to $5. 5m. 
No. Of course it is nol all medical. If the honourable senator is trying to suggest that the Government is withdrawing aid from South Vietnam. 1 can tell him that that is not the case. As to whether the Government has withdrawn medical teams, I do not know the answer but I will find out for him and let him know. 
On 11th April,  Senator Devitt  asked  Senator Bishop  the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that as a consequence of revaluation many persons in Australia in receipt of British service and civilian pensions have had substantial cuts made in those pensions? In dealing with revaluation compensation in other situations, can the problems of British pensioners who have suffered in this way be given the most sympathetic consideration so that, if possible their living standards will be restored to the former level. 
The answer to  Senator Devitt's  question is as follows: 
Pensions paid to Australian residents by overseas Governments or other Institutions, whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, are of course liable to change in terms of their Australian dollar value if the exchange rate between the currency of the country concerned and the Australian dollar changes. Such a change may occur either because of  a  change in the par value of the Australian dollar, such as was made on 23rd December last; or because of  a  change in the par value or central rate of the foreign currency concerned such as occurred in the case of the pound sterling when it was allowed to 'float' in June 1972; or because of a change in the relative valuation of the Australian dollar and the foreign currency concerned as a result of differing consequences for those currencies of action taken in the case of other major currencies, such as the devaluation of the United States dollar in February 1973. 
In these respects the effects on the remittances concerned are not different in kind from the effects on other payments due to Australian residents in foreign currencies. Thus, while the Government sympathises with those individuals whose pensions payable from overseas sources may have been reduced in terms of Australian currency as a result of exchange rate changes, it would not be appropriate for it to seek to offset by specific action such reductions. 
I should mention that, as a result of the recent exchange rate changes, some persons resident in Australia in receipt of a pension from the United Kingdom could have become eligible foran Australian Social Service pension for the first time and others could have qualified for an increased Social Services pension. 
The last statement that I saw was to the effect that our ambassador in Moscow was visiting Poland. I am not sure of the position in relation to a Polish embassy here. I will find out the exact details and let the honourable senator know. 
I shall find out and let the honourable senator know.  
Although the question was addressed to  Senator Murphy  I think it falls more within my domain. As I have said here before, our position in relation to the recognition of the 2 Vietnams is that we recognise the realities of a certain situation. We will never reach the situation in which the world is presented to all individuals in the way in which 'they would want to see it. In fact, honourable senators in this chamber would want to draw different pictures anyway. In relation to the Vietnam situation, the fact is that roughly half of the country is being controlled by the North Vietnamese and half is being controlled by the South Vietnamese. We have recognised both governments, as have many other countries. 
 Mr Whitlam's  reply to the question asked by  Mr Sinclair  was given on the clear understanding that  Mr Li  was coming as a private citizen. But then  Mr Sinclair  himself referred to  Mr Li  as the Minister for Finance in Taiwan. It was  Mr Sinclair  who brought this into the open. Because of that we anticipated, as I said yesterday, that there would be a complaint because of the arrangements we had made with the People's Republic of China. There was a complaint and it left us no alternative, if we were to keep our side of the bargain, but to tell  Mr Li  that we would not issue him with a visa. As far as I know, these sorts of arrangements have been made with the People's Republic of China by most of the countries of the world. 
 I have information relating to the question  Senator Mulvihill  asked me earlier today. If I may, while I am on my feet, I shall provide some information which I promised  Senator Rae  yesterday.  Senator Mulvihill  asked a few moments ago about our diplomatic arrangements with Poland. As honourable senators know we have diplomatic arrangements with that country. It is represented in Canberra by a Charge d'Affaires. We intend to set up an embassy in Warsaw. We expect to have an advance team there later this month. 
Yesterday  Senator Rae  asked: 
In view of the fact that the Government has a desire to assist in the provision of proper medical services and atd for the people of South East Asia affected by the Indo-China war can the Minister state why the medical teams and medical aid formerly sent to South Vietnam have been withdrawn?  1 pointed out that we were increasing aid to South Vietnam but that I did not have partiesulars about the teams. To explain the situation I shall quote part of a Press statement of 29th December 1972. An announcement was made that the Australian medical aid program in Vietnam is to change its emphasis from patient care aid to the fields of public health and medical training. The revised program follows a major review of Australian medical aid to Vietnam. As part of this review a team of 3 doctors, led by  Sir William  Refshauge, the Director-General of Health, visited Vietnam in November 1971. The team included a senior Adelaide surgeon and former leader of 2 surgical teams in Vietnam,  Mr Mervyn  Smith, and  Dr J.  Boxall of the Department of Health. 
The new program is based on the review team's recommendations. As an example of how this is being phased in I point out that the phasing out of the final surgical team at Bien Hoa will coincide with the completion of a major rebuilding project at the Bien Hoa hospital carried out under the medical aid program at a cost of $1,450,000. The new medical assistance program has already taken' shape and Australia is constructing a prophylactic and diagnostic clinic in Saigon at an estimated cost df $250,000. This community health clinic will provide normal outpatient facilities, dispensary, a small laboratory, X- ray facilities, minor operating room and a maternity wing. The building is expected to be completed by April. In addition to the public health clinic project, medical training programs for the Vietnamese civil medical teachers and public health staff are being planned. These courses will be held in Australia and Vietnam. Already, at the request of the Vietnamese authorities a senior Australian surgeon is undertaking- a training program for medical teaching staff at the Cho Ray teaching hospital in Saigon.. Further training assistance within Vietnam is planned for doctors in the fields of X-ray diagnosis, ear, nose and throat surgery and . public health administration. 
On 15 March 1973,  Senator Negus  asked me a series of questions about fire precautions in the A.C.T. and asked whether consideration would be given Courts of the situation immediately to ensure that the Brisbane horror is not repeated to advising and enlightening all State Licensing anywhere in Australia. The Minister for the Capita] Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
Questions of public safety must over-ride convenience. In the A.C.T. occupancy of a new or adapted commercial building is not permitted unless the building meets the requirements of the A.C.T. Building Manual in relation to structural standards and fire safety, and complies satisfactorily with the requirements of the A.C.T. Fire Service as to appliances, alarms, etc. 
Random inspections are carried out by Fire Prevention Officers to ensure that fire hazardous situations do not develop in buildings of public resort. 
Conferences attended by representees of the States' and Territories' Licensing Authorities are held annually. These conferences provide a valuable means for exchange of views and information on mutual problems and ensure that matters such as those raised in the honourable senator's question are examined. The conferences are supplemented by informal contacts as required. It is considered preferable for the Brisbane tragedy to be discussed and the lessons learned from it to be brought to attention in that forum. 
On 12th May the Yugoslav Ambassador handed a note to the Government in reply to the Australian note passed to the Yugoslav Government on 14th April. The Yugoslav note did not provide all the information which we were seeking. However, it reiterated a willingness to provide details of the trials of the 3 Australians who were executed following their participation in an illegal incursion into Bosnia, as well as further information about this incursion. Our ambassador in Belgrade is pursuing this matter with the Yugoslav authorities. He is also discussing with them the cases of other Australians about whom we have had represen tations or reports that they have been detained. Although the Yugoslav Government insists that, under the terms of the Hague Convention, Article 4, it is not obliged to give the Australian Government access to dual nationals arrested and detained in Yugoslavia, we believe nevertheless that we had a right to this access on humanitarian grounds. 
I think I answered before that negotiations between governments are not matters about which it is appropriate to table documents. It is very- 
No, it is responsible government. I notice that  Senator Greenwood  is laughing again. I do not think that any responsible citizen in Australia would expect a government to make available for public gaze transcripts relating to negotiations with another country. 
The question is based on the false premise that we intend to disengage from our near neighbours, particularly Indonesia. We have been hearing criticism that we are getting too close to Indonesia, which is our second biggest aid project. The friendship between the Indonesian and Australian people is well known. I cannot make any further reply to the question because it is based on a false premise. There, is no policy of disengagement from our near neighbours. 
by leave - I inform the Senate that the Leader of the Government in the Senate, Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  left Australia on Sunday, 13 th May, to present Australia's case against French nuclear testing in the Pacific to the International Court of Justice at The Hague. He is expected to return to Australia on 28th May. During his absence the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will be Acting Attorney-General. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  will be Acting Minister for Customs and Excise. I shall act as Leader of the Government in the Senate and also represent the 2 Acting Ministers in addition to those Ministers normally represented by  Senator Murphy  in this chamber. 
No,I cannot give  Senator Cotton  any information concerning people who are members of the Prime Minister's staff or what their roles will be. 
I have not seen the suggestion of  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew. I will inform myself of it and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
I will ask the Attorney-General's Department to see what it can do to expedite a reply to  Senator Webster's  question No. 227 on the notice paper. 
I do not know whether we have sought that information. I will find out and let  Senator Carrick  know. 
I have no idea as to whether  Senator Murphy  made those statements. I would seriously doubt it. I will refer the question to him when he returns. 
No, the Chinese Government does not recognise the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. 
On Wednesday, 11th April,  Senator Young  asked  Senator Murphy  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in my absence, the following question, without notice: 1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister seen reports of the critical situation that has arisen in Cambodia due to increased hostilities in that country What steps are being taken by the Australian Government to bring about a cessation of hositilities in Cambodia, whose only desire throughout has been one of neutrality and peace? 

 Senator Murphy replied that he was not aware that Australia was taking any steps in this matter but undertook to refer the honourable senator's question to the approrpriate  Minister. The following is now provided for the honourable senator's information: 
The Government deplores the continuation of hostilities in Cambodia and notes with concern reports from Phnom Penh of the critical situation in that country. The Government considers that a political solution should be sought based upon efforts by the Khmer parties themselves to resolve their differences through negotiations. The re-establishment of peace in Cambodia would enable a start to be made on the task of reconstruction, in which Australia is fully prepared to play its part. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting 1 will move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings be as follows: 
Tuesdays-11 a.m. to1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.; 
Wednesdays - 11.30 a.m. to1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 11 pm.; 
Thursdays- 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.; and, from and including 25th May, Fridays - 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
That, unless otherwise ordered on Fridays, the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at 4 p.m. 
I might just add for the information of the Senate that it is my intention - certainly I will be talking to the Leaders of the other parties on this - that the Estimates Committees will sit on the Thursday afternoons and Fridays. Because of the amount of legislation which will be introduced into the Senate it is very obvious that the meetings of the Estimates Committees will present a problem and, it seems that the only way to overcome this problem is to have the Estimates Committees sit on the Thursday afternoons and the Fridays. 
 No, I am not authorised by the Prime Minister to make any such apology. Indeed, I think it would be inappropriate if I were. The honourable senator's question refers to something which has happened in the Senate, and I believe it is for the Senate, which is master of its own business, to resolve any difficulties which arise in the Senate. The suggestion which I have made - I make it again now - is that we do not look at this matter in isolation but realise some of the things which gave rise to the unusual situation which arose in the Senate last Thursday night. The position is that  Senator Murphy,  who is leader of the Government in the Senate and also Leader of the House, is away, as I have just announced, and I think it would be much more appropriate if this whole matter were discussed upon his return.  We  have in the. Senate a situation which is quite unprecedented. For the first time we have a situation in which 4 groups of people form the Opposition, so that the Government Whip is faced in turn with a situation in which he has no precedents to follow. My suggestion is that on  Senator Murphy's  return those responsible for the running of the Senate - particularly the Government which has the responsibility of getting legislation put into effect, because that is the mandate which we received; it is our responsibility to do that - ought to arrange a discussion on this whole question of pairs and indeed other aspects of the running of this House. 
I do not know that it would not be appropriate - and I just make this as a suggestion at this stage - that a committee of private members of Parliament be set up to examine this whole question of pairs. Maybe there are precedents in the Mother of Parliaments or in the Parliaments of the States or countries such as Canada or the United States. I merely suggest that it may be worth examination. But surely one thing is paramount: Parliament must be made to work and the Government must govern. However unpalatable the decision of 2 December might be to some, that is the wish of the Australian people. Let it be quite clear that the Government must govern and the initiatives of legislation must be left in the Government's hands. We face an unprecedented situation. What happened the other night was regrettable and what caused it was regrettable. I do not want to go over the debate which ensued on the adjournment *he other night. 
To answer that would be to go into the whole gamut of those events. I have no wish to hold up the working of the Senate and no wish to rehash the debate of the other night. What I have said is that this question ought to be delayed until the return of the Leader of the Government in this place who is also the Leader of the House, because that is the way we have been running cur business here. Until that is done, I am prepared to authorise my Whip to grant pairs on a day-to-day basis whereby honourable senators can see what legislation is before them and can from day to day decide- whether those Bills and those motions are suitable for the granting of pairs. I would make one exception for  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield who is overseas and who went overseas with our authority; she can have a permanent pair until her business in the United States of America is completed and she returns here. 

 Mr President, I believe that the suggestion I have made is the best for the running of this Parliament. I believe it is the only way to make this Senate function as it ought to function. Some of the situations which have arisen and which culminated in what happened on Thursday night cannot continue. Anybody with half an eye can see what the legislative program is by looking at the business in the other place, the Bills already here and the Bills waiting to be introduced in another place. The frustration of government cannot go on and I suggest to you,  Mr President,  that the most sensible way to eliminate it is, firstly, to delay the whole question of pairs and let us carry on on a day-to-day basis of granting pairs, as I am perfectly willing to do; and secondly, examine that situation in the coolness of the moment on  Senator Murphy's  return. 
I will answer the last part of the question first. The indications are quite the opposite. The present Minister for Foreign Affairs has enlarged the powers of the new Committee substantially in comparison with those which were laid down by the previous Government. This Committee has a long history. For many years after it was first formed, members of the Australian Labor Party would not serve on it because its terms of reference were not wide enough. Over the years the Australian Labor Party was able to have those powers enlarged, but not to its satisfaction. Honourable senators will remember that at the beginning of this Parliament the Government enlarged the terms of reference of the Committee and gave it much more autonomy and power than it had ever had before. I do not know the reason why the Committee has not been set up. I certainly will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
I have some information for  Senator McManus.  The position regarding the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs is that the decision to set up this Committee was not finalised in the Parliament until 3rd May. Now that it has been drawn to his attention, I am sure that  Senator McManus  will recall, as I do, that  Senator Withers  moved a procedural motion which provided that the  Chairman  of the Committee should be elected by the Committee. Originally it was proposed that the  Chairman  should be nominated by the Prime Minister, but the view was taken that as this was a parliamentary committee, the  Chairman  should be elected by the Committee. We sent that request down to the House of Representatives. The amendment was agreed to by the House of Representatives and we accepted that amendment on 3rd May. Now that that has been done, we have to write to the  President  naming the members of the Committee, and there was some doubt as to whether I, as Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, could do that. I am informed that I can, and I hope that it will be done almost immediately; if not today, then certainly by tomorrow. 
 Senator Hannan  recently quoted from another journal, which was published in the United States of America and I advised him that if he thought that it was a responsible journal and that its statements had any concrete basis it was his duty to place the matter before the Government or the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I thank you if you have. I suggest he follow the same course now. The Department has not shown me a copy of the magazine and therefore I do not know what appears on pages 104 to 106. 
With your permission,  Mr President,  I will quote from a reply that I intended to give today to a question on notice by  Senator Webster.  Yes, we did make a protest shortly after we set up an embassy in China. As to the second part of the honourable senator's question, that is, whether the protest was made verbally or in writing - I understand that this matter was raised in the media - the protest took the form of a letter from the Foreign Minister to the Chinese Foreign Minister,  Mr Chi  Peng-fei. The letter was handed to the Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister,  Mr Chang  Wen-Chin, by the Australian Charge d'Affaires in Peking. It is not intended at this stage to make the text of the communication public. 
I have been given the wrong role. I think I could do that much more effectively than  Senator Murphy.  He should be in Australia and I should be in Holland. I am sure I could look at those tulips very effectively. While I appreciate the humour even in times like these, I say to  Senator McManus  that I think that it is overstating the position to contend that  Senator Murphy's  absence will hold up the business of the Senate. A situation has arisen in the Senate. My suggestion was that the best way to handle it was to wait until  Senator Murphy  returned. Let me assure  Senator McManus  and everybody else that nothing from this side of the chamber will stop us from putting legislation through. That is what we are here for. 
I do not know that I can add very much to the answers I have given to questions asked already. I think the position is fairly clear. We have an unsatisfactory situation between the Yugoslav Government and our Government. In a very traumatic situation we are trying to have our views heard. As I have told honourable senators, the Yugoslav Government is still standing on the Hague Convention claiming that Yugoslavs who become naturalised in other countries remain natural nationals - those are not quite the words in the Convention - and that the Yugoslav Government retains jurisdiction over them. As I said, we are still trying to insist that, if only on humanitarian grounds, we should have access to our people who go to Yugoslavia. 
That information was contained in the original answer I gave. The Yugoslav Government is insisting that it has prior rights - in fact, the only rights - under the. Hague Convention. We are still pursuing the matter in spite of that. The 
Yugoslav Government rests on the Hague Convention, and we are still insisting that if accusations are made against people with dual nationality, in whom we believe we have some interest, we be informed so that we can extend to them our diplomatic privileges. I have said several times in this place that we want that arrangement in every country. Whether a person is being detained on a minor charge or a major charge, if he is an Australian citizen we expect to be informed of it so that we can extend the protection of Australia to that person. 
This is certainly an Irish stew. Several things are tied up in one question.  I  think Japanese influence by way of investment will become significant. I have no crystal ball, but I think it will. As a nation Papua New Guinea will need large injections of overseas investments, and the Japanese have plenty of them. They have large investments in our own country, throughout South East Asia, in Europe and America and in other parts of the world.  I  do not think there is any doubt that that will come about.. The fact of their taking an interest  - I  have not seen it but  I  accept that a report has been made - would not surprise me because it would be in line with the general attitude of their investment in Papua New Guinea. We certainly would take steps to resolve the airline problem.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson used a couple of unfortunate expressions such as 'regrettable squabble' and 'forcing them into independence before they are ready'. It creates news for the media when somebody in Papua New Guinea says: 'We are not ready, we are being forced into it' and so on. The man to whom we have to listen is the Chief Minister,  Mr Michael  Somare, and as I understand it he is not unhappy with the situation. He is getting ready as fast as possible to take over the government of his country, and the things this Government is doing in trying to assist him to be ready in the various activities of government are, I think, quite creditable. 
I do not think that it is a matter of whether we accept this without question at all. The previous Government and we did accept what the Yugoslav Government had told us, that they were killed in the Bosnian raid. Later that information was proved to be wrong, when the Yugoslav Government informed us that they had been executed, and honourable senators know what has happened since then. It is not a question of having a closed or an open mind. We are pursuing this to our utmost. We are trying to get all the information that we can. On this vexed question of dual nationality we are even going to ask a parliamentary committee in this place to see whether it can be of any assistance to this Government and future governments. The more information we can get on it, the more likely we are to be able to clean it up; and the better the understanding we can reach with the Yugoslav Government the better it will be for all Australians. 
I do not know the details of that matter. I will find out and let  Senator Laucke  know. 
No,  Senator Hannan  need not fear. We will have  Senator Murphy  with his ability back here well within the 12 months. 
 I am not in a position to forecast what might happen if the events suggested by the honourable senator occur. I am unable to say whether, if these situations eventuate, future airline negotiations will be bedevilled. This matter is in a fluid state at the moment and I think that I can advise the Senate of developments only as they occur. 
I  do not know.  I  will find out. 
I do not think that  Senator Marriott  would expect me to have those figures in my head.  I  will ask the Minister whom  I  represent in this chamber and obtain the figures for the honourable senator. 
I think that the question should have been directed to me in my capacity as Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I will refer the question to the Attorney-General to seek information on it. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to amend the notice of motion standing in my name. 

 - Mr President, I ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
Some pretty familiar propaganda is associated with the question asked by the honourable senator. The honourable senator asks whether the Government will dissociate itself from statements 'apparently made by  Dr Cairns'.  I do not know how one can either associate or dissociate oneself from statements 'apparently made'. In due course we will find out whether  Dr Cairns  has said or done anything that would be cutting across Australian Government policy. No evidence is available that he has done so. If he has, the Government will deal with the matter. 
As I understand the question,  Senator Gair  wants to know whether any Australian Security Intelligence Organisation files or dossiers have been given out to the public. 
The honourable senator claims on the basis of a newspaper report which he is backing up that they have been offered. I will refer the matter for attention. 
I will make inquiries. 
Yes,  I  have seen the estimate of the cost of the national wage case. No,  I  do not know how much will be returned in taxation. Yes,  I  will find out, if  I  possibly can, and let the honourable senator know. 
Yes, the Government will keep a close eye on trade not only with the United States of America but also with everywhere else.  I  do not know whether that close watch will require a devaluation or an appreciation, but the Government would act following on the close survey that the honourable senator has recommended we make. 
I  . do . not know whether our Ambassador has been handed a. note on this matter. The very, difficult situation that has prevailed following the ceasefire is one to which we are not a. party. There' could be an adverse effect if -we were to start to move in at this stage. Up til) this point,, both on the prisoner of war. question and the. whole question of the ceasefire, we havebelieved, as we have no direct-, responsibilities, in this matter - we are not a signatory to any of the ceasefire arr.angements-that the agreements that were reached at Paris should be given a chance, to- work out. without outside interference. 
I do not see that what the Prime Minister said at a Press conference comes within my portfolio'. Nor do I think I have to answer what  Senator Webster  thinks. I do not know whether he means that I look like some leading Communist. I do not know. I certainly cannot ask my Department for any advice on this. I think that this sort of question is a bit of a waste of question time. 
The long and involved question asked by the honourable senator concerns trade and arises out of the nuclear tests being conducted at the moment, mainly by France but possibly in the future by China. I do not see anything incongruous in sending a trade mission overseas to try to develop trade with another country. That the country happens to be China I know does upset some honourable senators opposite. We now recognise China. We have exchanged diplomatic representatives with China, and the sending of a trade mission to China is a normal flow-on from that. I understood  Senator Carrick  to say that the Government was assisting in a ban on French goods. That, of course, is hot true. 
 If he did not say that, I withdraw what I said. The situation is that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has decided to apply certain bans against people connected with French businesses and the like in Australia. I think  Senator Carrick  well knows, although of course he did not refer to it, that the Prime Minister cabled the interstate executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions asking that the bans be not applied before the International Court of Jus tice hearing and pointing out that ne was anxious that the conventions to which Australia is a party be maintained. 1 would hardly call that a Government trying to place bans on France. 
I' think  Senator Greenwood  knows the situation in regard to industrial action in Australia because he was a Minister in the previous Government; but his record in handling the trade' union movement was not one to which I think he would like to advert at any time. The situation is in  a  state of fluidity at the moment. Emotions were aroused.  Senator Greenwood  is interjecting. He has asked his question. Perhaps I had better not say what he might do if he had the power. The views of the Australian Government in both fields in which we were interested have been made known. It is a difficult situation when strikes and nationwide boycotts take place. Obviously, the Army cannot be called in to shoot people, to mow them down, or to do those things which might be in  Senator Greenwood's  mind. 
 Mr President,  I had intended to refer to that situation, but not quite as directly as you did. Obviously if a decision is made by the Government to do anything at all, that decision becomes a matter of policy. It would be quite impossible and quite improper to make forecasts on such decisions.  Senator Greenwood  has to realise that there is a new government in office and that the present Prime Minister does not purport to be a dictator. He gave the opinion of the Government to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He gave it in our name. That does not mean that he is a dictator. That does not mean that he will demand that everything he says in giving an opinion will be placed before the ACTU before it makes a decision. It means that we do not have to go to the extreme lengths which I atn sure  Senator Greenwood  would want to go if he were the dictator of Australia. 
 Senator McManus  has put forward part of the case that obviously will be presented against us, that is, that Britain and Australia collaborated in the conducting of atomic tests many years ago. But we know a lot more about pollution today, particularly atomic pollution. I do not believe that even the previous Government would have allowed atomic bombs to be exploded in Australia if it had had the knowledge that it has now. The present Government certainly would not have done so. It is all right to be wise after the event. That is the situation in which we find ourselves at the moment. I imagine that that is going to be some embarrassment to us.  Senator McManus  has picked up some of the case that I think is going to be used against ais - we are used to that sort of thing happening in this place - and presented it to the, public. Great Britain was asked to come into the matter of the 
French tests because she has dependencies in the Pacific Ocean area within the environs of Mururoa. That was mainly the reason. We thought that she would have some interest in protesting because of her dependencies. 
Whether full information should be given is a very vexed question. In the early days of atomic research people went to gaol because they believed that the communist countries of the world should be given the same information as was developed in the. United States of America. The names of some very famous people are recorded in history as having gone to gaol on precisely the same principle as  Senator McManus  is advocating today. 
I am reminded that 2 people were executed. This question is one. which may well depend upon what influence we have with Great Britain. I do not know from where the honourable senator obtained the information that Great Britain has all the knowledge that France requires. I do not know about that. Somehow I would be inclined to doubt it. 
in reply - I thank the Leaders of the Parties and  Senator Negus  for their comments. Firstly, in relation to  Senator Byrne's  comments, I point out that I certainly have no objection to talking to Party leaders. But in this situation the motion went on to the notice paper and I thought that that would give everybody 24 hours in which to make their comments. I certainly welcome those comments. I know that nobody likes sitting on Fridays, including myself. I suppose the honourable senators from Western Australia get it worst.  I  am a Western Australian who, unfortunately for the last few months, has not been very interested in trips to Western Australia. I understand the position quite clearly. I point out that the motion includes the words 'unless otherwise ordered'. If We could get through the vital Bills more quickly- that is those which are going to be rejected or amended and sent back to the other place - this would be taken into account in trying to dodge Friday sittings and we could certainly amend the sitting hours. While I am on my feet  I  inform the Senate that later in the day I will move a motion to enable us to meet at the normal time tomorrow, otherwise when this motion is passed we would meet half an hour earlier tomorrow. And Friday will not come into the matter. 
Question time was mentioned by  Senator Negus.  He suggested that there be no question time on the extra day on which the Senate sits. This thought crossed my mind too. We are sitting for a specific purpose. But question time comes up. I make no suggestion that it be cut out because it is something which the Opposition always wants. But if there is any suggestion that we make question time shorter, or something like that, then  I  could well fit in with the suggestion. I think that  Senator Negus  has a point but it is the sort of thing which the Government cannot suggest. If it is something on which the Opposition wants to co-operate and if it wants to halve question time, make it less, or to go the full hour, then I am completely in the hands of the Senate. I thank the Senate for its help. As I say, we do not have to adhere to this arrangement. If we have had a bad day and we have got some Bills through, there is nothing to stop us from adjourning a few minutes early. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The news item has been drawn to my attention. However, I cannot obtain from the Department confirmation that the report is true. Indeed, I do not know whether the Department has received a copy of the news item. It probably has. I do not think that this would be anything unusual. I remember that some years ago  His  Holiness received  Mr Kruschev  when  Mr Kruschev  was the No. 1 man in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I do not see anything unusual about the meeting to which the honourable senator refers, if it does take place. I understand the information came from a United Press International news item which has been repeated in the Press. I do not see anything unusual about the meeting. As to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I think it is becoming obvious that the negotiating table is the place to try to resolve such differences. 
As everybody knows, there is a rather confused situation in this area. I understand that the main thrust is by the Cambodian insurgents, but I understand also that North Vietnamese troops are operating in that area. This is what we are told in the reports we have received. As far as the Vietcong are concerned, 1 do not remember seeing specific reports as to whether or not they are operating in the area. 
No, nobody in the community is immune from prosecution. I suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that he not prejudge this issue. I suggest to everybody that in the delicate situation in which we find ourselves we do everything to help and not to hinder. 
I have not seen a report of what the Prime Minister said last night. The rest of  Senator Durack's  question does not deserve a reply. 
-I shall pass that question to the Minister for Science and get a reply. 

 - Mr President, I ask that all further questions be placed on the  notice  paper. 
 As  Senator Withers  has pointed out, this is a procedural motion but it is leading to a situation which would result in the setting up of a committee to which we object, not only in its terms but also because of the composition of the committee on which the Opposition would have a majority. I do not intend to delay this Senate or to re-hash the arguments because the matter was dealt with very fully the other evening. I merely indicate that we will vote against the rescission because obviously we know what the rescission is all about. We know clearly that the Opposition does not intend to change its mind about, firstly, setting up what we regard as a witch hunt and, secondly, the composition of that committee. So,  Mr Deputy President,  the Government will vote against the rescission. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Withers')  be  agreed to. 
My recollection is that a senior departmental officer will be representing us at these talks. I will check that to make sure I am right. I think that the policy which we will be pursuing is too complicated to answer at question time. 
 Mr Snedden  and, I think,  Mr Anthony  have complained to France about its nuclear testing. To my knowledge the Democratic Labor Party has not made any protest. I recall the Democratic Labor Party saying at one time that it wanted a nuclear capacity in Australia. Whether it still adheres to that policy I do not know. I have not seen any recent declarations on that matter. Australia is opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
 I do not think that it is the job of the Department of Foreign Affairs to be briefing me or to be trying to keep up with the ever moving policies of the Australian Democratic Labor Party or indeed of other political parties in Australia. The answer that I gave to the previous question by  Senator Gietzelt  was evidently right. The Democratic Labor Party believes that we ought to have a nuclear deterrent in Australia.  Senator McManus  added 'while some other countries' - and he named 2 of them - have nuclear armaments'. I assume he would object to anybody else having them. 
Well, the honourable senator did not say that. To that extent the Democratic Labor Party agrees with the Australian Labor Party that we would not want to see a nuclear deterrent in any country. Where we part company from the Democratic Labor Party is that we do not think that by proliferating nuclear weapons in the world we get to the point of disarmament. The attitude always seems strange to me that if one wants disarmament in the world, particularly in the nuclear area, the way to achieve this is by building more bombs. 
No, obviously we have not made a costing of the boycott. We do not know for how long it is on and what field it is going to cover. It is quite an impossible situation to assess. I do not know how far we would get if we did try to assess it. In the second part of his question the honourable senator talked about pious hopes and used the sort of language which he knows very well should not be imported into question time. The fact is, as he well knows, that the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government placed the situation clearly before the Australian Council of Trade Unions before it made its decision. I wonder what the attitude of the Opposition would have been if we had not done anything? What criticism would have come from the Opposition? Of course the answer is that the trade and foreign policies of governments are always carried out by governments. 
1 did not say that the Government found itself in a delicate position. What I said was that a delicate position exists and that very clearly  Senator Greenwood  was trying to hamper anything we could do for the good of Australia in this delicate position in which we find ourselves with France. He is not trying to help in any way. That is not an unusual position for the honourable gentleman to take. If these questions go on a little longer the whole of the anti-Australian case will have been presented by the members of the Opposition. I wonder where Opposition senators really stand on the question of fallout. I wonder where they really do stand when their Government is in the International Court of Justice. 
Why does not the honourable senator listen to the truth? He is taking a completely anti-Australian line which, I agree, is not at all unusual. Every time this Government is involved in an international situation we find people like  Senator Greenwood  who want to take the anti course. What did he do when there were boycotts and strikes in Australia? 
Why do you not listen to the answer you are getting? I asked you a question. What did you ever do about it? I told  Senator Greenwood  yesterday that he will be disappointed if he thinks that we will start shooting trade unionists or putting in basher gangs to bash them up. We will deal with the situation as we find it from time to time. As to whether legislation is under consideration to strengthen Acts of Parliament in any way, that is a matter for the Government. If such legislation is introduced, the honourable senator will be given due notice and the chance for that peculiar mind of his to function. 
-I resent the use of the word 'betraying' by  Senator Carrick. 
'Portraying', I am informed. 
Well, somebody said that you did. 
-I was advised that you said 'portraying'.I do not have any details to give in answer to the question. 
I do not know what the lawyers have based their case on to the International Court of Justice. I was not advising them on it. I do not know whether it is based on what Professor Linus Pauling or some other scientists have said. The honourable senator commenced his question with the words: 'If it is a fact'. I do not know whether it is a fact. As I understand the situation, scientists throughout the world are disagreeing on this situation. As for the rest of the question as to whether we should appeal to the High Court about banning people doing something in pursuance of their health, I do not think that that requires an answer. 
Ignoring the insulting part of the question, which is the tail end of it, surely  Senator Greenwood  would understand that a government is for ever looking at situations which arise from day to day. It is for ever looking at the powers it has on the statute books of this country. I would have thought that surely that would have been selfevident. 
 In the absence of and at the request of  Senator Murphy,  I move: 
That, notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders, the Resolutions of 3rd May relating to the appointment of members to serve on the Select Committee on Shipping Services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne, be varied to read as follows: 
That the Committee consist of the following Senators: 
three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate; 
two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate; and 
one to be nominated by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents. 
(a) That the Committee elect as  Chairman  one of the members nominated by the Leader of the Government. The  Chairman  of the Committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be the Deputy-Chairman of the Committee. The member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee, 
In the event of an equality of voting the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 

 Mr President, I do not think that the time of the Senate ought to be taken up for very long on this motion. You know the situation.  Senator Wright  has moved to set up a committee on which the majority of members would not be Government members but would be Opposition members. This motion seeks to have equal numbers on the Committee - that is, 3 Government members and 3 members from the combined Opposition senators. There is an added proviso that in the event of an equality of votes the  chairman,  who would be appointed by the Committee from one of the nominees of the Government, would have a casting vote. The Committee will deal with a problem which is somewhat of a localised nature. Tasmania has always had problems in relation to shipping services. I can remember questions about shipping services to Tasmania being asked since the first day that  Senator Wright  and I became senators. 
I have been reminded by  Senator Rae  that the very first select committee established by this chamber was set up to inquire into that very thing. It is a problem of long standing duration. I request the Opposition to look very carefully at this proposition. After all a government has to govern. A government has to be in a position where it can allocate moneys and make decisions on all sorts of things. This motion refers to one of those things. 
The fact that there are unsatisfactory shipping services to and from King Island and Stanley is a perfectly legitimate cause for action. It is also perfectly legitimate for the Senate to feel that Government action should be taken to correct the situation. It may be that a Senate inquiry will result in the bringing down of a report which will be beneficial to the Government in its endeavours to do something about this problem. Facts and recommendations could be placed before the Government as a result of such an inquiry. 1 understand that clearly. But it has been a timehonoured tradition in this chamber for the Government to have a majority on such committees and for it to appoint the chairmen of such committees. 
I do not want to go into the necessity for an inquiry into the situation with respect to King Island. If a committee is to be set up to inquire into shipping services to and from King Island it will be set up. I wish merely to put to the Senate in very unemotional but nevertheless precise terms that it is a serious thing to do to seek in an oblique way to take the governing of the country out of the hands of the Government. One cannot foretell where such a situation could end. One could finish up in the situation where the last position is very much worse than the first. I wish merely to put it to the Senate that the motion of which  Senator Murphy  gave notice before he left Australia and which I have now moved on his behalf should be given the very serious consideration which I think it deserves. 
There is one other thing I want to say. Those honourable senators who have served on committees know that there is a lot of common ground between members of committees. I admit that at times party political considerations enter into the examination of matters by committees and that at times there are people who cannot help making a political forum out of committee meetings and trying to score political points. But I think it is true to say that whenever a committee is set up of people who apply their minds singularly and collectively to a problem a lot of common ground is reached. 
I repeat that I have moved this motion because there could be a conflict with the lond standing tradition of the Senate with relation to the membership and chairmanship of committees. I know that from time to time there has been a departure from the tradition when one political party has decided not to appoint members to a committee or to do something of that nature, but I put it very seriously to  Senator Wright,  who has been a member of this chamber for a long time, that the interests of all would be best served if he and his colleagues were to accept the motion that I have proposed. I repeat that a serious situation exists when, by any means at all, an Opposition seeks to depart from its normal role of moving amendments to legislation, seeking the setting up of committees and opposing Bills and puts itself into the position of attempting to take over, by one form or another, the business of a government that has been elected by the people of Australia. 
!l move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval  of  Parliament to the provision of a contractual guarantee by the Australian Government for an overseas borrowing by Papua New Guinea in foreign currencies not exceeding the equivalent of $US20m or $A14.3m. Legislation to  authorise  the borrowing, to be used by the Government of Papua New Guinea to finance public works and services, has already been passed by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly and it is expected that arrangements for the borrowing for which this Bill provides a guarantee will be concluded before the end of this financial year. The borrowing will be the first loan raised by Papua New Guinea on international capital markets, although this is not the first time Parliament has been asked to approve the provision  of  contractual guarantees for overseas borrowings by Papua New Guinea. Parliament has on several previous occasions approved such guarantees by the Australian Government in respect of loans to Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. All borrowings by Papua New Guinea internally or on the Australian market, or course, carry  a  statutory guarantee by the Australian Government by virtue of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act. 
One of the loan possibilities currently being investigated by the Papua New Guinea Government is a public bond issue denominated in deutschemarks underwritten by  an  international syndicate of banking and financial institutions, which makes it necessary to seek parliamentary approval for the provision of the guarantee in advance of the time the issue is actually negotiated. A legal opinion by the Secretary to the Attorney-General's Department, to the effect that the legal pre-requisites for the provision of the guarantee have been fulfilled, will need to be furnished to the underwriters immediately the loan documents have been signed and before the proceeds of the borrowing are paid over. This is normally done about 7 days after the signing of the underwriting agreement. There would, therefore, be insufficient time to seek parliamentary approval for the guarantee after the loan agreement has been signed,  as  has been the normal practice with guarantees for loans to Papua New Guinea by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. 
The form of guarantee that is customarily required in international capital markets is similar to those that have been given to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the Asian Development Bank in respect of borrowings by Papua New Guinea from those institutions. The borrower and the guarantor would also both be required to give customary undertakings to the effect that interest payments and repayment of the loan would be made without deduction for taxes and would also be free of exchange control restrictions. The Bill accordingly provides for such undertakings to be given. 
The Bill is purposely couched  in  general terms in respect of the currency and the precise form of the proposed borrowing so as not to restrict Papua New Guinea's choice as to the particular overseas market  in  which it finally decided to arrange the loan. In present circumstances, it seems probable that the cost of  an  overseas borrowing by Papua New Guinea will not differ greatly from the cost of a borrowing for a comparable term from institutional sources in Australia. The Papua New Guinea Government wishes to undertake  an  overseas borrowing as soon as possible to establish a favourable standing in international capital markets before it becomes independent, as this could enhance its borrowing prospects thereafter. A contractual guarantee by the Australian Government for such a borrowing should ensure the success of this first issue and will materially assist Papua New Guinea in furthering this longer term objective. I therefore commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
The Government will vote against this motion. Whatever was the result of the vote the other night and whatever was the result of a motion which was put this afternoon for the setting up of another committee, the fact is that a government must govern, lt is absolutely out of the question for an opposition to be taking over the business of government. The setting up of this proposed committee is nothing more or less than a witch hunt. Even if that is overstating the case, the Opposition refuses to give the Government either the chairmanship of or the majority of members on a committee. We can look at committee after committee, irrespective of the colour of the government, and in almost all cases there has been a majority of government members on it and invariably a government  chairman. 
 I repeat that in the majority of cases, in nearly all cases- 
In the history of the Senate. In nearly all cases - I am not saying 100 per cent of cases - that has been the position. If the honourable senator casts his eye down the notice paper as it stands today I think he will agree that the vast majority of committees are set up in this way. 
How far back does the honourable senator want to take history? I am referring to the years I have been here. The situation is that on a recent night  Senator Turnbull  moved a motion which, at least, would have made the number of Government senators on the committee equal to the number of other senators. There has been some sort of suggestion that, if there were an independent senator on the committee, in some way there would be an impartial situation. That might well be so but  Senator Turnbull  points out that  Senator Townley  is still a member of the Liberal Party in Tasmania. He stands as an independent Liberal. The suggestion was made that he would be the  chairman  of the committee. Surely nobody suggests that the Government should accept  Senator Townley  in an independent role.  Senator Turnbull  said that he did not wish to be associated with the committee and that left one other independent senator. But, as I see it, that was unacceptable to the Opposition. It is obvious that the Senate cannot continue to function if the Opposition is going to abuse in this manner the numbers which it has. This situation just cannot go on. 
As I said earlier I do not want to see a rehash of all the arguments of the other night, although that is for the will of the Senate. If it wants to do that that is within its right. I think that would be a fruitless exercise. I think we have thrashed this matter over. No one has changed his mind. We believe that this is an abuse of power. The Opposition, for reasons best known to itself, believes that it should use that power to have a majority on the committee to inquire into a situation which we believe should not be the subject of inquiry by a committee. The basis of this move for an inquiry is to be found in the following words of the motion: 
the unwarranted invasion of premises; 
the unwarranted seizure of documents or property; (iii)t he unwarranted deprivation of liberty, privacy or good reputation. 
It seems to me from the use of the word 'unwarranted' that this committee has made up its mind before it has heard one tittle of evidence. 
If there is an invasion of premises - and these are allegations which are made against law enforcement officers day by day in the community - then there is a right of recourse within the law of the land. Every time a law enforcement officer associated with the Commonwealth is alleged to have stepped outside his normal powers to search, arrest or something of that nature, are we going to turn round and set up a Senate committee to inquire into that situation. Is the Opposition going to take the matter out of the hands of the Government? If these things occur then they should be reported to the senior officers of the law enforcement body. If a citizen wishes to go further than that then he has a right of recourse at law. We are getting into a pretty ludicrous situation when somebody has a grievance within the law and, instead of taking the normal action which any other citizen has to take because the allegation has been associated with an emotional situation in which tempers have risen, set up a Senate inquiry and take the matter out of the hands of the Government. 
The Government will vote against this proposal at all stages because the principle and the basis of it are wrong. I suggest that this is a prejudiced body. Honourable senators opposite have used the word 'unwarranted'. How do they know that this action was unwarranted if they want to have an inquiry? If they wish to have an impartial inquiry how can they say that the action was unwarranted before the inquiry starts? The Government will vote against the motion. 
No, I have not seen a report that somebody has been stranded by UTA or the reasons for it. 
The reply to the last part of the question is no. I do not know about the qualifications or the comparisons of these 2 scientist's with other scientists in Australia, but at the end of question time  I  will be tabling a report on the consultations which took place between the French and Australian scientists when the French visited Australia a couple of weeks ago. 
I do not know what the Treasurer will do about some statements that he has made, or whether he will withdraw or change them. I am quite certain that his statements were not intended to set up a run on the funds of building societies, if that has happened, and I doubt whether it has. I was unaware that the 4 building societies in Tasmania had been given the charter that they have. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is no. If  Senator Guilfoyle  knows of particular cases in which the Taxation Office has not given an extension of time for payment when from her knowledge and experience it should have done so, I suggest that she bring those to the attention of the Treasurer so that they can be matched against what was done previously. 
1 do not know what assurances were given prior to the election.  Senator Greenwood  knows perfectly well that I will not answer questions about what happened at Cabinet meetings. That is all I can tell him about the matter. 
The question is obviously out of order. Firstly, it has nothing to do with any of the portfolios which I administer. Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate asked me to concede something. That would be stating an opinion. Therefore, the whole question is out of order. 
-It must seem very peculiar to people overseas that in Australia one Party can receive more votes than another Party and yet obtain fewer seats. However, we in Australia are used to seeing this take place in the Australian States. I do not know whether the Minister for Services and Property would like to issue a White Paper on this matter. For a long time the Australian Labor Party has said that each person should have one vote and that each vote should have the same value, but the Opposition parties in this place resist the introduction of such a voting system. They laugh about it because in this House at present they are on top. When the Opposition parties refer to corruption in other countries I often wonder whether the gerrymandering which occurs in this country could not be regarded as corruption in very high places. 
-I will ignore the gratuitous remark at the end of the honourable senator's question. I do not know whether those forms are out. 
I ask that further questions be put on the notice paper,  Mr President. 
I understand that passage of this Bill was held up the other day when  Senator Wright  asked for an opinion. I have given the opinion. I have placed it on the table. As I have pointed out, we are dealing with a temporary situation pending a report of the Tariff Board. I suggest that we proceed to a vote at the Committee stage. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 - Senator Greenwood has misunderstood me. I was asked to quote paragraph 5 of the opinion which I have tabled. It reads: 
There is nothing in the definition of 'book', or in my opinion, in the Act when read as a whole, which requires or from which it could be inferred that only books having literary quality are intended to be bountiable. 
As I understand the situation, the amount of bounty paid on any particular book is confidential to the Department and to the printer. The annual return referred to by  Senator Wright  relates only to the total amount paid to any printer, not in respect of individual books. Such information would provide commercial intelligence to each printer's competitors. The Act was introduced by the previous Government. 
I did mention this matter. It is a bit confusing. Concern was felt about the provisions of State law. The Government was worried that Commonwealth legislation would override State law. So, the legislation has been lined up with State law to provide that adopting parents can give consent. I repeat that this deals only with consent to marriage. As I said at the outset, perhaps there are other ways of doing it, but the decision has been made to come down on the side of what we propose. Regard has been had to the provisions of State law and these amendments are those which will line up best with State law. 
The situation as I understand it is that we have retained this provision in the Act which states that the adopting parents are the people who have the right to consent to marriage. This is the way that we think it is best clone. 
 Yes. The provision is in the principal Act. Your criticism is that we have not altered it, is it? 
 Your inquiry is why we have not altered it. We have not. It stays the same in that regard. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Yes, I realise the necessity to maintain civil rights in Australia. I shall have a look at question No. 227 and see what I can do about it. I am not aware of it and I have not looked at it. 
The answer is that I did refer it to the Department. It is not my Department; it is the Attorney-General's Department, and I made a special request that it be answered. I have not yet the information. If there is something floating from what 1 said, or if I have omitted something, if I am given a reference I shall certainly take the matter up. 
The honourable senator referred to alleged discussions with North Koreans. 
Various reports have appeared suggesting that  Dr Cairns  has gone beyond Government policy in his statements about North Korea. The facts of the matter, as reported from Peking, are that  Dr Cairns  was asked 3 questions by the North Korean Ambassador who had asked to call on him. They were: Would Australia recognise North Korea? Could a North Korean trade delegation led by a Minister come to Australia? Would  Dr Cairns  visit North Korea? In reply to the first 2 questions about recognition and whether a trade delegation could come here,  Dr Cairns  said that he would refer these matters  to  Canberra. As for the third question about whether he would visit North Korea, he said that personally he would like to do so. 
I have seen reports of the problem of Jehovah's Witnesses in Malawi. To my knowledge the Government has not examined whether lodging a protest would be the correct thing to do in the prevailing circumstances.  Senator Durack  has said that he visited Malawi last year when that country was host to a conference of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. There may be other avenues. It is a matter to be regretted and I will certainly take it up. 
I thought  Senator Greenwood  knew the situation. We are in constant contact with the Yugoslavs. We sent a protest note about this incident, telling them of our dissatisfaction. 
You know perfectly well that we did. 
The position is well known. Of course we protested about the executions. I would have thought that  Senator Greenwood  would be the last one to talk about the actions of this Government in relation to the Yugoslav Government. Be that as it may, we have taken this matter up. We have received a reply from the Yugoslav authorities. We have not received all the information that we wanted. Talks are going on through our ambassador. We have referred the whole vexed question of dual nationality to this Parliament for advice. At the same time we have kept pressing the Yugoslav authorities about the situation in Yugoslavia. We have asked for more details about the raid, about the execution of the 3 dual nationals who took part in the raid and about the fact that we were told later that they had been executed. We are taking the whole of this matter up. We have protested and we are trying to act in an unemotional manner to see that similar things do not happen again. At the same time wc are trying to get more information on a situation about which the previous Government did nothing. 
No, I have not seen the report to which the honourable senator referred. The honourable senator asked me about my opinion on something. He should not ask for an opinion at question time. 
No, you did not. You asked me whether I agreed with something. If I say I agree, I will be giving an opinion, and it is completely out of order to ask for an opinion. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has asked several questions about what the policy of the Government is going to be on this, that and the other. 
'Firstly, nobody has refused to take action. I wish the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would base his question on truth. 
What we might do is make an examination of what the previous Government used to do about strikes and what  Senator Greenwood  did about Croatian terrorist activities in Australia. 
For the information of honourable senators 1 present the report of the meeting between Australian and French scientists on 7, 8 and 9 May at the Australian Academy of Science in Canberra on biological effects of nuclear explosion fallout. The report is in 2 sections. Section A is common to the Australian and French reports. In Section B separate reports are submitted by the Australian scientists and the French scientists. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay upon the table statements made in the House of Representatives last Thursday by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and a Press statement by other Ministers relating to the establishment of a National Estate Task Force. I move: 
That the Senate lake note of the statemenls. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wiliesee)  adjourned. 

 - Senator Greenwood referred in his speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill to that part of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  which states: 
The opportunity is being taken to make a number of useful amendments to the Act, regarded as necessary or desirable as a result of 10 years experience of the operation of the Act. They are for the most part of comparatively minor importance, and I can deal with them in Committee. 
If I go through the clauses this may, as  Senator Greenwood  said, put on the record the reasons why they were inserted. I have looked through them and I would describe them as technical amendments; but if I refer to them and put them on the record, that might meet what  Senator Greenwood  requires. Firstly, clause 3. This will give effect to the decision to lower the minimum age of marriage without parental consent from 21 years to 18 years by changing the definition of 'minor' to mean 'a person who has not attained the age of eighteen years'. That of course is the gravamen of the Bill. I do not refer to that amendment as being technical. The others, I think, are more technical. Clause 4 deals with the difference existing now between the Territories and the States. Under the Act the minimum age at which a person may marry is 18 years for males and 16 years for females. However, a judge or a magistrate in a State but only a judge in a Territory, if he is satisfied that the circumstances of the case are so exceptional or unusual as to justify his doing so, may authorise a male between 16 years and 18 years of age or a female between 14 and 16 years to marry a particular person of marriageable age. This provision will enable magistrates in Territories to authorise such marriages. It is clear that at the moment the Territories are at that disadvantage and this corrects that situation. 
Clause 5 concerns the question of witnessing of consent to marriage hi overseas countries. This provision will extend the class of persons who may witness the signing of a consent to marry by a person in an overseas country to include ministers of religion. This will mean an addition to 'an Australian diplomatic or consular officer, a judge of a court, magistrate, justice of the peace of that country or a notary public. The amendment enlarges that group to include 'a minister of religion'. Next is clause 6. This provision will abolish the existing requirement for the approval of the Attorney-General to the registration of a minister of religion who is not a British subject as a marriage celebrant. 
Clause 7 deals with the furnishing of information by registering authorities to the Attorney-General's Department. The existing section 38 of the Act requires each registering authority to furnish a monthly return to the Attorney-General's Department of new ministers of religion registered as marriage celebrants and changes recorded in the details of existing marriage celebrants. This provision will relax the requirements so that the information need be furnished only when requested by the Department. 
Clause 8 concerns notice of an intended marriage. Paragraph (a) substitutes a period of 3 months for the present period of 90 days after which a notice becomes stale, as being easier to calculate. Paragraph (b) extends the class of person who can witness the signing of a notice of intended marriage to include a barrister or solicitor, a legally qualified medical practitioner or a member of the police force of the Commonwealth or of the State or Territory. That is in addition to an authorised celebrant, a commissioner for declarations or a justice of the peace. Next is clause 9. The present provision requires 2 official marriage certificates to be prepared. Only one is in fact required where the marriage is solemnised by a registering authority, for example, in the RegistrarGeneral's Office in Sydney. This provision is included to enable these officials to prepare one certificate only. This provision also requires marriage celebrants other than the officials referred to earlier to forward one of the official certificates and the other documents relating to the marriage to the appropriate registering authority within 14 days after solemnising the marriage. 
Clause 10 will enable an authorised officer to require the parties to a marriage that is void to surrender possession, of the certificate of marriage that was issued to them. Clause 11 will enable (a) the first marriage to be proved in bigamy proceedings by means of the original or a certified copy of a certificate or other record of the marriage. It is designed to facilitate proof of marriages contracted overseas. Identification of the parties will, of course, still be necessary. Similar provisions are in the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 and the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance. 
Clause 12 relates to marrying a person who is a minor without consent. It is a defence under the Act to the charge of having married a minor without the required parental or other consent if the accused proves that he believed on reasonable grounds that the person with whom he went through the form of marriage had attained to the age of 21 years. This provision will change the age for this purpose to 18 years. Clause 13 would substitute a new Part I of the schedule to the Act in place of the existing Part I and Part II. The purpose is to remove as far as possible the distinction between children born in wedlock and children born out of wedlock. There will be some consequential changes in the law in that the consent of the father of a child who is not married to the mother will be required in certain circumstances where he is living with the mother or where the minor is living with him. The existing necessity for obtaining consent of guardians where one parent had died has been dropped in some cases. 
The first point to which  Senator Greenwood  adverted concerned clause 5 of the Bill. He raised the query or the theory of how we would identify a minister of religion overseas. This could be a problem in some countries, but the same situation would arise if we were trying to identify a Justice of the Peace overseas. I refer the honourable senator to  Senator Murphy's  words that this situation has come about in the course of 10 years of experience. In some countries, particularly in places such as Greece and to a lesser extent Italy, priests are always performing these sorts of duties. They are expected to do so; it is the system adopted in those countries and the people grow up to expect it. From experience it has been considered that this provision ought to be extended beyond the scope of a diplomat, a consular officer, a judge, a magistrate, a justice of the peace and a notary public. It was considered that ministers of religion who traditionally perform marriages should also be authorised to be witnesses to the consent of marriage. 
Clause 6 abolishes the existing requirement for the approval of the Attorney-General of the registration of a minister of religion who is not a British subject. The fact is that this provision never really operated. Approval has never been refused. We thought that while this Act was being amended we should take the opportunity to put into law what has been the practice over many years. 
Clause 7 deals with the compilation of a list of celebrants. After the list was compiled it was kept but it was not necessary to have it brought up to date or for monthly records to be compiled. The Department was not that interested in them. So it is provided that in the situation when it comes to notice that there is some irregularity it can get the list and make a check of it. 
The situation with regard to clause 9 is that in the central registration office - the one mentioned is the Registrar-General's Office, Sydney - there is no necessity to make out 2 certificates. I understand that in practice this has not been done at the central office. In offices other than the central office 2 certificates are still being prepared. One copy is kept for the regional office and the other is sent to the central office. Obviously it is not necessary to prepare 2 certificates in the central office. 
I understand one was used for the record of the regional office and one was forwarded to the central office where the central registry was kept. For instance, the registrar in a country town would make out 2 certificates, one being for his records and one to be sent to the central office. I suppose, since they are government certificates, we ought to be thankful that they were not prepared in triplicate. 1 think the next point raised by  Senator Greenwood  concerned clause 13 relating to the Schedule to the Act. If the honourable senator will look at the heading of the Schedule he will see that clause 13 is concerned with persons whose consent is required to a marriage of a minor; it has nothing to do With the question of property. It merely deals with this question of certification. This could be clone in some of the ways suggested by  Senator Greenwood,  but there was a worry that Commonwealth law could override State law in this matter. Because of that consideration this amendment is proposed. As 1 say, it is not a question of property; it is a question of who shall have the right to consent to the marriage of a minor. In certain circumstances the father of an illegitimate child would have just as much interest in this situation as the mother. That is why, as the honourable senator will remember, the last sentence that I used was: 
The existing necessity for .obtaining consents of guardians where one parent has died has been dropped in some cases. 
If the honourable senator looks at the schedule he will see in what cases this requirement is still being retained. I repeat that there are, I suppose, all sorts of theories as to the ways in which this could be done. After 10 years of experience it has been found that in some cases this provision has not been applied. Therefore, it has been taken out of the Act. It is in the light of the experience of the Department in those years that these rather minor amendments are made to the Act. 
I have some information which has been given to me in pursuance of the query raised by  Senator Wright.  During the Committee stage of consideration of the Book Bounty Bill,  Senator Wright  asked  Senator Murphy  whether the term 'literary' used in the Act means a book of literary quality in the sense that it is not rubbishy, indecent pornography.  Senator Wright  asked  Senator Murphy  to lay on the table a short opinion from the SolicitorGeneral or any other authority. Apparently  Senator Wright  has forgotten that he asked almost the same question of the previous Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  in connection with bounty on the Little Red School Book' and then he in a reply dated 13 June 1972 after receiving an opinion from the former Attorney-General.  Senator Greenwood,  said, inter alia: 
Literary excellence or merit is of no consequence in deciding literary character. 
Because of the point raised by  Senator Wright  on the question of 'literary character', an uptodate opinion has been obtained from the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor which confirms the advice of the Former Minister,  Mr Chipp,  to the honourable senator. In accordance with  Senator Wright's  wishes, I table the advice of the Crown Silicitor 
I am informed that the amount of bounty paid on any book is confidential as between the printer and the Department. 
We seem to be getting very excited over a Book Bounty Bill. We have seen  Senator Wright  come full turn. Before he was a Minister he used to speak as he did tonight. Then for 5 long weary years he sat there, and never a peep out of him. 
As was his duty. 
No, not as a Minister; not against his own Government. Now he is back to the old role of criticising his Government, his mates. 
Do not twist what I am saying. Your mates should be in the Liberal Party and they are the first people you attack. Mateship means something to me. 
I think the honourable senator will have to get a bit of weight off, will he not? The situation is that this Act was introduced by the previous Government and  Senator Wright  had plenty of chances to criticise it then, if his criticisms were valid. It was the previous Government which inserted the definition of literary character and the Crown Solicitor has stated quite clearly that quality is of no importance at all.  Senator Wright  asked that we get a legal opinion of the situation. Now we have it and now that old blood pressure of his is starting to get very high again. The Crown Solicitor said: 
There is nothing in the definition of 'book', or in my opinion, in the Act when read as a whole, which requires or from which it could be inferred that only books having literary quality are intended to be bountiable. 

 Senator Wright has said that he has never heard of the Tariff Board's having a look at this situation but it was his Party's Government that introduced this Bill as an interim measure to give the Tariff Board an opportunity to look at the whole question of the printing industry. It is expected that in August of this year the report of the Tariff Board, of which  Senator Wright  has never heard, will be brought down. The purpose of the measure was to introduce an interim bounty to enable the industry to carry on. Surely  Senator Wright  is not suggesting that the book bounty should cease and that all of  our  printing should be done overseas. That is where his argument leads him. If payment of a bounty is refused on books such as 'The Little Red School Book', it means that the publisher will have it printed in Hong Kong or some other place and imported into Australia duty free. In such circumstances the net loser is the Australian printing industry. That is why the Tariff Board is inquiring into the printing industry in Australia and reporting on it to this Parliament. When' the report is received I would like to hear from  Senator Wright  criticism, agreement - although I could not imagine his agreeing - disagreement or sensible argument on that report. 
 I ask for leave to withdraw notice of motion No. 6 standing in the name of  Senator Murphy  which relates to the siting of the new and permanent parliament house. 
No, it was not deliberate. I intend to make inquiries. I am sorry that I did not tell the honourable senator so. 
No, I do not know what stage the inquiry has reached. 1 will ascertain whether there is any useful information as to when the inquiry will be completed and let  Senator Sim  know. 
I am not aware of the details contained in the honourable senator's question. I do not know whether these people are arriving or whether the allegations which the honourable senator makes about them are true. 
Yes, I shall ask him. 
 I will pass the question on to the Treasurer for reply. 
No, I will not ask  Senator Murphy  to do that. 
'I will pass the question on to the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
To borrow the verbiage of  Senator Hannan,  no, it is not a fact. 
I will make inquiries and let  Senator McManus  know. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
On taking office this Government continued the action already being taken  on  behalf  of  the Australians who it had been alleged were being detained in Yugoslavia. 
Most of these cases date back to August/September 1972 with the action commencing in some instances as a result of representations in this Parliament. This Government has pursued these inquiries but its efforts have been complicated by the dual nationality aspects of each of the cases involved. 
A specific example of these continuing representations occurred on 5 January when our Ambassador in Belgrade during discussions with the Yugoslav Ministry of Foreign Affairs, again drew attention to the fact that replies to our inquiries regarding those persons were still outstanding. 
I give notice on behalf of one senator that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Aci to amend the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72. 
I anticipated this question. At the latest session., of the General Assembly of the UnitedNations Australia supported resolution 2918 which reaffirms the right of the Portuguese territories to self determination and independence. The operative paragraphs of the resolution are, however, specifically directed to the situation in Portuguese African territories.' Portuguese Timor is not named in the resolution. The resolution calls generally on all states to put an end to activities which help to exploit Portuguese territories and calls generally on all states to discourage their nationals from transactions which contribute to Portugal's domination over the territories. At present there are no mandatory sanctions imposed on Portugal by the United Nations Security Council. Trans-Australia Airlines advises that it has not knowingly carried groups of military personnel or military equipment on its services to or from Timor. It has occasionally carried military personnel travelling as individual members of the public and out of uniform. 
As  Senator Carrick  knows - my letter to him described the situation - we have protested to the Chinese about nuclear tests in the atmosphere in accordance with our consistant attitude in relation to any tests in the atmosphere. I do not think that the protests have gone past that point. I am not certain, but I do not think that we have asked specifically whether the Chinese have fixed any dates. As I understand the last records of conversation that I read on this matter, there was no indication that at this time they were thinking of carrying out tests in the immediate future. 
So far, most of the questions about  Senator Murphy's  absence have been concerned with the time of his return to Australia. Now honourable senators seem to want to delay his return, so I am a little confused on this issue. As far as I know, there is no intention of his visiting Yugoslavia. The situation, as I have explained several times, is that this whole question concerning Yugoslavia is being pursued by our Ambassador in Yugoslavia, under instructions from this Government. 
In answer to the first part of the question, no, I was unaware that the honourable senator had received that information. In reply to the remainder of the question, yes, I will have a look at the situation. I think that the honourable senator's idea is to have this matter speeded up. I will see what I can do. 
I have a statement in reply to  Senator Greenwood's  questions on this matter and it is to be read later. It does not fully answer this question but deals with some of the questions he has raised. He asks us to put a time limit on negotiations between the  2  countries. I do not think that would be wise when we have these negotiations going on. We have received an answer to the protest note and we have carried on negotiations since then. I think it would be very bad for negotiations on a situation with any country to fix a time limit and threaten the country concerned with some other action. I suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that he ought to accept that the Government is doing all that it possibly can in the situation as it sees it at the present time. If this fails, the policy of the Government will have to be looked at in that light. 
I did make inquiries into this matter after  Senator Young  raised it yesterday. I made inquiries in regard to Noumea. Did the honourable senator specifically mention Noumea yesterday? 
The cable we have received indicates that some inquiries have been made at the Consulate. In replying to questions raised the cable states that the Consulate had received very few inquiries; nobody had applied for financial help; some people had asked about the latest developments in the boycott; and one visitor had asked to make a phone call to Australia. The Consulate pointed out that communication services were operating normally. The Consul thought that there might be a few people who would have to stay in New Caledonia longer than expected while they waited for bookings with Qantas and Pan Am whose planes were, he understood, fully booked, till the end of the month. Qantas has told us that its normal complement was fully booked but it had increased the number of economy class seats and yesterday's flight had left with 10 seats empty. Pan Am said that its plane was fully booked only for a week ahead and it had seats to spare on its flight on 4 June. 
I wish to inform the Senate that on Thursday, after questions and formal business, I propose to move that the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. to enable Estimates Committees B, C and E to meet from approximately 12 noon until 6 p.m. If this is agreed to, Estimates Committee B will sit in the Senate chamber, C in Senate Committee Room No. 1 and E in Senate Committee Room No. 3. I propose further that the Senate adjourn on Thursday night until Tuesday 29 May, at 11 a.m., and that on Friday, at 10 a.m., Estimates Committees A, D and F meet until they complete their deliberations or until 4.30 p.m., whichever is the earlier: Committee A to sit in the Senate Chamber, D in Senate Committee Room No. 1 and F in Senate Committee Room No. 3. 
 I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this legislation is to give effect to a series of decisions reached jointly with the Government of Papua New Guinea. These are to transfer responsibility for the Public Service and for auditing the accounts of Papua New Guinea to local executive authority, to implement the recommendations of a report on the future of overseas officers in the Public Service and to make minor amendments to the description of Papua New Guinea in conformity with the terms of the border agreement between Australia and Indonesia signed in February 1973. 
There are 2 Bills involved. One is to amend the Papua New Guinea Act. The amendments proposed have 4 objectives. Firstly, they will remove the power of the Minister for External Territories under section 30 to appoint officers and engage persons on contract for the Public Service, thus enabling Papua New Guinea to legislate to develop its own national public service - an essential authority for a country approaching full selfgovernment and independence. Secondly, they will repeal section  30a  which guarantees the payment of certain benefits for overseas officers. This section will be superfluous with the passage of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill, to which I will refer later. Thirdly, the amendments provide for the cessation of Australian responsibility for auditing the accounts of Papua New Guinea. In this regard it will be noted that the transfer of responsibility is to apply to accounts in respect of transactions occurring after a date to be fixed by proclamation. This will retain authority for the Australian Auditor-General to complete his final audit, and enable the Papua New Guinea Auditor to commence his responsibilities at the beginning of an appropriate financial period. Fourthly, the amendments will give effect to certain provisions of the border agreement between Australia and Indonesia signed earlier this year. The agreement provides for the recognition of the  14  border markers erected by a joint IndonesianAustralian border survey, team in  1966-67. 
The amendments to the descriptions of the Territories of Papua and of New Guinea are in accordance with the Agreement, concluded with the concurrence of the Papua New Guinea Administrator's Executive Council and signed on behalf of Australia by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. It provides that the boundary is to lie along the geodetic lines linking the border markers except where the border follows the course of the Fly River. 
I now turn to the Bill entitled the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill. This Bill is complementary to the proposed amendments to the Papua New Guinea Act and is designed, to come into operation on the date on which responsibility for the Public Service is transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government. At the present time there are some  5,000  permanent and contract overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service and the Police Force who were appointed as permanent officers or engaged on contract by the Minister for External Territories. The Papua New Guinea Government has indicated that it wants to retain the services of many of these officers and that it sees a continuing need for staff from Australia for some years beyond independence. The Aus tralian Government has given an undertaking to Papua New Guinea that the help of Australians will be available for as long as that help is needed and desired. The Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill provides the framework under which this may be accomplished and gives effect to the recommendations of a report on the future employment security of overseas officers in the Public Service. 
The report on employment security arrangements sprang from an independent inquiry into the employment security of overseas officers and- the provision of future staff by Australia. The .inquiry was set up by the previous Government in August last year and was carried out by  Mr A.  M. Simpson, C.M.G., a leading Adelaide businessman.  His  report was accepted in principle by both the Australian, and Papua New Guinea Governments and was published. Copies are available from the Parliamentary Library. . The. Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance). Bill, in giving effect to the Simpson recommendations, reflects a decision taken jointly by Papua New Guinea and the former Australian Government and endorsed by the present .Government. Its provisions will result in major changes to the: existing framework under which the Australian Government provides staff for Papua New Guinea. 
Under the Bill permanent and contract overseas officers and temporary overseas employee superannuation fund contributors in the Public Service and the Police Force, and staff of the Electricity Commission of Papua New Guinea who are superannuation contributors, will be separated from their respective Papua New Guinea services and will become part of an Australian staffing assistance group. The persons in this group will not be members of the national Public Service of Papua New Guinea and they will not compete with local officers for promotion within that Service. They will however be made available to occupy and carry out the duties of established positions in the Papua New Guinea national public service and in other areas of public employment until there are Papua New Guineans available to fill these positions and their services are no longer required. Their employment under the Australian staffing assistance legislation will then cease and they will eventually rejoin the Australian work force. 
The Commonwealth Teaching Service will shortly be recruiting teachers for service in 
Papua New Guinea and for the period of that service they will form part of the Australian staffing assistance group. Similarly, staff seconded from other areas of Australian public employment will also serve in the group in line with Australia's undertaking to provide continued staffing assistance to Papua New Guinea. The Bill provides for the prescribing by regulation of the terms and conditions of service and the superannuation, retirement and employment security benefits of the overseas officers who will make up the staffing assistance group. Removal of these matters from Papua New Guinea legislation and their prescription under Australian legislation will meet the assurances given to these officers by the Australian Government that their terms and conditions of service would not be altered without the consent of the Australian Government. The Australian Government will, therefore, as part of its aid program be accepting full and direct responsibility for the cost and payment of the remuneration and other benefits of employees in the staffing assistance group. 
Other changes recommended by  Mr Simpson  relate to employment security arrangements for employees in the staffing assistance group. Modifications will be made to the employment security scheme for permanent overseas officers to update its benefits in line with rising costs since 1966 and to provide officers with certain options as to pensions, compensation or alternative employment on premature termination of their careers. A scheme of compensation for premature termination of contracts of employment made by the Minister under the Papua New Guinea Act will also be introduced. These matters will be prescribed by regulation. The Bill itself is designed to provide the basic framework under which the Simpson recommendations may be given effect. Pending the introduction of regulations prescribing terms and conditions of employment it provides for the continuation of the relevant provisions of appropriate Papua New Guinea ordinances and the regulations and determinations made thereunder. Insofar as superannuation, retirement and employment security benefits are concerned the Bill continues certain provisions in the existing Papua New Guinea law and preserves the continuity of pensions and the rights of contributors. The regulations to be made by the Governor-General will provide the detailed mechanism necessary for the effective administration of the Act, and will set out the terms and conditions of employment and other benefits available to persons to be absorbed into the Australian staffing assistance group. It is essential that the provisions of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill and the necessary regulations to be made thereunder become operative on the date on which responsibility for the Public Service is transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government. This is scheduled for 1st August 1973. The Papua New Guinea Government is proceeding with complementary Papua New Guinea legislation to establish a national public service and the object is that both the Australian and Papua New Guinea legislation will commence concurrently. I commend the Bills to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
Firstly, I do not know on what basis  Senator Greenwood  can say that African terrorists or any other terrorists can take some solace from any action that we take in the United Nations and that in that way we encourage violence. I have some information about one of the gentlemen mentioned yesterday by the honourable senator. He asked a question about the passport of  Mr Zvobgo.  My information is that  Mr Zvobgo  is travelling on a British passport and is coming to Australia from the United States of America. There is absolutely nothing unusual about this. British people can come and go. As far as we know,  Mr Zvobgo  has not taken part in any violent action- 
He has served some time in gaol. From my information, as far as we know he has not been engaged in violence. He has been very outspoken and has said some very hard things against the Smith regime. He makes no secret at all about his view of that situation. I have no information about the other gentleman mentioned in the question. If I receive some information, I will certainly let  Senator Greenwood  know. 
I seek leave to make a statement which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered yesterday in another place. 
Pursuant to statute I present the report of the Special Advisory Authority on industrial type plastic coated knitted gloves. 
I just do not recall the details of the travel requirements for the Rhodesian girls but I will find out and advise the honourable senator. I remember signing recently at least one application to allow Rhodesians to visit Australia on humanitarian grounds. If the honourable senator's suggestion is that we are just being harsh on everybody, then that is completely wrong. I will get the details about the girls and let the honourable senator know what they are. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965, I present the twenty-seventh annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
Very obviously one does not answer hypothetical questions. 
We will nominate 2 honourable senators. 1 will see whether that can be done today. We have an unusual day because of the sittings of the Estimates Committees. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is no, my attention has not been drawn to these statistics. 
 I do not know whether that figure is correct, and I have no other figures. 
I Would be delighted to give the Opposition parties an opportunity to talk about their own inadequacies because the more they talk about foreign policy the better it suits the Government. I cannot give any indication of where this matter will fit into the slot for debate. As I have discussed with  Senator Withers  on several occasions - he knows quite clearly and agrees - the notice paper each day has been constructed to bring on for debate those matters which we know will be controversial, matters on which the Opposition has fixed views and which it may wish to amend or, in some cases, to defeat and send back to the House of Representatives. That is the obvious course of action to be taken. If there is to be disagreement between the Houses, if the will of the Senate is to amend legislation, that legislation should be sent back to the House of Representatives as quickly as possible to see whether the House agrees or disagrees. If the House disagrees, the import of that will be known in 3 or 4 months. The Bills to which I have referred will be kept at the top of the notice paper until they are disposed, of.. I do not know when that will be. I do not know for how much longer the Senate will sit. 
I would like to see a debate take place on foreign policy, but I cannot give  Senator Greenwood  a precise assurance. I cannot tell him where we will slot it in on the debating list. It is the first responsibility of the Senate to deal with the controversial Bills as are indicated to me by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  each morning. We discuss the matters that are likely to be on the notice paper for that day and indeed the next day. It is clear that there will be opposition to some of the Bills and amendments will be moved. Those Bills, for the time being, must have priority. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  apologise to  Senator Carrick  and to the Senate that I do not remember what Professor Messel said in 1953. As one gets older one's memory slips. Whether his advice to the Government now is the same or whether it has changed I do not know. I mentioned the other day in this place - and  Senator Carrick  adverted to this today - that what we knew then about pollution, and particularly atomic pollution, is nothing when compared With what we know today. As  I  have said several times, we will hear the whole of the anti Australian case at the International Court of Justice from honourable Senators opposite if we sit here long enough. I have not heard one of them putting up an argument in favour of our case in spite of the fact that their leaders have said that they have protested to the French about the explosions which are to take place on Mururoa Atoll. Yet we have people in this chamber for ever trying to denigrate and pull down the case which we are putting before the International Court of Justice. The situation is, as I freely admitted the other day, that this is the sort of argument which will be used against us because we did acquiesce in atomic explosions some 20 years ago. We answer: Surely to change our minds on this vital question is merely saying that we are a little wiser today then we were yesterday. 
I do not recall the details of the vote of December last year. I do not carry those things in my mind.  Senator Greenwood  asked me a hypothetical question today about some visitors to Australia. It is quite clear from the Standing Orders that hypothetical questions should not be asked. 
Just be quiet for a moment.  Senator Greenwood  has now twisted that around and said that we will not say that we condemn terrorism. Where is the connection in that? We have condemned terrorism not all over the world but in Australia, which  Senator Greenwood  refused to do. 
 Senator McManus  certainly credits me with having a lot of scientific knowledge which I do not possess. As I understand the situation it is a matter for the defence authorities as to whether one of our ships goes as a supply ship to a New Zealand ship. It is not envisaged that it will go directly into the area of the explosions. I understand that there will be an immediate fallout and that there will then be thrown into the atmosphere the dangers that will go on in varying quantities over many years. All I can say is that we certainly will not willingly be putting anybody into more danger than the normal French tests will bring about. 
No. I think it would be quite the wrong thing to do to chide people after they have cast a vote at any of the United Nations agencies. The debate takes place, a vote is taken and that is it. We may be disappointed at the way in which people voted. I think that it would be quite futile and outside normal diplomatic relations for us to take the matter up on a diplomatic level and write to the countries. 
The first part of the question has nothing to do with any of the portfolios for which I am responsible. I do not know whether a flat had Marrickville margarine in it. It has nothing to do with the Government whether it did. I have heard the allegation previously. I do not think it comes under any shade of Government policy. As I understand it, it is not true. 
 Senator Laucke  started his previous question by asking me whether a statement had been drawn to my attention. I told him that it had not. 
The second part is the important part. The honourable senator asked me something. He took one economic factor in the whole of the economy and asked me whether the Government was worried about it. Quite frankly, it is one of the things which we take into account in the whole of our economic structure or the whole of our economic workings. I cannot answer whether this one thing is wiping out all the other economic measures. I just cannot answer that. 
As I understand the situation - and I am subject to correction -  Mr Young  accompanied  Mr Whitlam  on a part of the return trip, but I do not think that is important.  Senator McManus  is referring to the principle involved. 1 am informed that  Mr Young  paid his fare. He travelled on the same basis as journalists travel on VIP trips. It is a matter of convenience. Journalists are taken on VIP trips, but their fares are paid by their companies. 
In regard to the question whether  Mr Young  ls being considered for the position at the Vatican, we have looked at that, but no, he is not being considered. Incidentally, I just heard an honourable senator mention  Senator Gair.  1 regret to say that he is not being considered, either. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes to amend section 18(8) of the Public Works Committee Act to increase the mandatory limit for works considered by the Public Works Committee from $750,000 to $2m. During 1972 the Committee, through the extensive efforts of its members,' examined a total of 35 proposals, 17 more than in any previous year. This general increase in the number of references to the Committee is continuing with 54 possible proposals listed for 1973 on the current basis of reference. 
On present planning the Committee would have to deal with an average of 6 projects a month. However, during the Parliamentary sessions an average of only one week , a month is available for inspections and hearings, and thus the Committee wouldneedto be occupied during the whole winter recess. It is obvious that the Committee could not possibly investigate such a large number of proposals as thoroughly and effectively as it has in the past. A possible solution would be to appoint a second Committee. However, the main danger in having 2 separate Public Works Committees acting concurrently would be the lack of a uniform approach to investigations. Such a lack of uniformity or liaison between 2 separate Committees would be confusing to anyone who might be regularly concerned with the Committees' investigations. 
A more practical alternative is to increase the mandatory limit of $750,000 which was set in 1969 and maintain a single Committee. The Committee has found that the cost level in real terms above which Commonwealth works proposals must be referred to the Committee has been diminished by inflation. As a result the Committee is now examining proposals which, in the past, would have been valued below the statutorylimit. Consequently, relatively minor projects are being delayed, and this increases the time and cost involved in presenting evidence before the Committee. 
The figure of $2m is not an arbitrary amount, but has been set after due consideration to the number of works projects which the Government contemplates, and the relative amount of time available to the Committee to look at these projects. This figure should result in 36 projects to be investigated by the Committee, in other words a program similar to that of 1972. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
When I use the word T it will be in the context of the Prime Minister. Upon taking office in December- the 
Australian Government began a complete reassessment of Australia's foreign policy. On 5 December, the day I was sworn in as Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, I stated: 
The change of Government provides a new opportunity for us to reassess the whole range of Australian foreign policies and attitudes. I shall be reassessing these policies with the general intention of developing more constructive, flexible and progressive approaches to a number of issues. Our thinking is towards a more independent Australian stance in international affairs and towards an Australia which will be less militarily oriented and ' not open to suggestions of racism; an Australia which will enjoy a growing standing as a distinctive,, tolerant, cooperative and well ' regarded nation 'hot only in the Asian and Pacific region but in the world at large. 
These are the very broad considerations which have guided our reassessment and which have inspired the specific policy decisions and actions already taken. In making the reassessment I have been vastly aided by the work of my Department. The advice available to me is the same which was available to the previous Government. The continuity of that advice provides a valuable element in the continuity of Australia's " foreign policy. 
Our work in the last 5 months has lain not in forcing new directions upon Australia's foreign policy but in making new definitions of the role of foreign policy. Australia's international relations, as those ' of any other country, must always be directed to maintaining the nation's security and ' integrity. An approach to foreign policy, however, which is solely an extension of defence policy, ,a foreign policy aimed only at securing the defence perimeters wherever they are set or however defined, will, in the long run, distort both foreign and defence policies. , . 
We accept, for instance, the assessment of our predecessors that there is no foreseeable international conflict of major proportions directly involving Australia. Our predecessors made this assessment in terms of the next 10 years. We may rest on such assumptions but not relax upon them. The positive constructive role of foreign policy - and equally defence policy - is to strive to ensure that the assumption proves correct. We are not just passively to assume that there will be no conflict; it is our positive task to see that there is not, by helping remove the causes of tension and conflict. The Government's foreign policy rests upon the belief that Australia, given her resources, her geographical position, her historical and cultural' background and the character and aspirations of her people, is well placed to make a serious contribution to the preservation of peace and the promotion of the welfare of our neighbours, while at the same time and by the same path, promoting her own interests and security. 
The change in the Australian Government came at a time of very great changes in international relations, particularly affecting our region. When in Opposition the Australian Labor Party worked for those changes in so far as it was in our slight power to do so. There was one man whose position gave him unique power to achieve these changes and I here gratefully acknowledge - as everybody with the welfare of the world at heart must - the pivotal role played by  President  Nixon in ushering in a new and saner phase in our relations with China; in clearing the way for more intensive commercial, scientific, technical and cultural exchanges between the United States and' the Soviet Union, and thereby achieving a successful first round of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks and in ending foreign intervention in Vietnam. These were great achievements. None of these great objectives - sensible relations with China, the limitation of nuclear weapons and the end of foreign intervention in Indo-China - have yet been brought to ultimate fruition. The major decisions my Government has taken in foreign policy have all been directed towards their achievement. 
This is the context in which some of the most notable of our decisions should be seen. Our immediate efforts to secure normal relations with China were part of an international endeavour. Our ending of the last vestiges of Australia's military commitment in Vietnam and Cambodia signalled our determination to do all in our power to end foreign intervention in Indo-China. 
Decisions like these have naturally attracted the most attention. It should not be overlooked, however, that equally important parts of our foreign' policy have required not specific actions but continuing activity directed towards strengthening relations with Japan, India and the Association of South East Asian Nations, with the United States and Canada, with Britain and the other members of the European Economic Community. 
The central aim of my Government's foreign policy will be to do all we can as a medium- sized power to help all nations including the great powers and not least our great ally, to make the most of the new opportunities now presenting themselves. We are determined that nothing Australia does by action or inaction will contribute in 1973 to a further loss of opportunity for settlement and sanity, in the way that great opportunities were lost in 1954. 
The day is long since past when governmental actions with implications for our overseas relations could be taken independently of the objectives we have been pursuing at the essentially political or diplomatic level. We must now view the conduct of external relations as a task which involves a total evaluation of our interests abroad and at home. The effective management of these various elements in our overseas relations will require a major effort of co-ordination at many levels within the Australian Government. Foreign policy must now be fully integrated with domestic policy. The two are inseparable. 
Despite the relaxation of tension which I have mentioned, suspicion and conflict of interests between the nuclear weapons states persist. So does the existence of inequality, injustice and underdevelopment in many parts of the globe. Through the United Nations and other international machinery we have the opportunity to press for the removal of barriers and constraints against a less hostile and more fruitful development of relations between the major nuclear states. At the same time we should not spare our efforts to assist the developing countries of the world achieve material, and spiritual progress in keeping with the legitimate aspirations and dignity of mankind. We believe that in the Third World change is not only inevitable but desirable, and that no peoples can fulfil their ultimate destiny if they are not allowed to arrive at genuinely national solutions to their own internal problems. By this we mean that the movements towards political, economic and social betterment in these countries should proceed along their own course with as little outside interference or intervention as possible and in a climate of security. 
In order to help prevent existing differences in political, ideological and social systems from disrupting peace and progress in the area of Asia and the Pacific, we have begun to deal with all the countries which satisfy the criteria of statehood. In this, we have broken with the policies of our predecessors. 
The most glaring distortion in our pattern of overseas representation was China, which ignorance, prejudice and Cold War hostility had excluded for a generation from its rightful place as a member of the international community of nations. As soon as we took office, we initiated the process towards recognising the People's Republic of China - in essence, towards removing our China Embassy from Taipei to Peking, the capital of China of which Taiwan is a province. On 22 December 1972 I was able to announce that the negotiations had been successfully concluded, that Australia had recognised the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China, and that diplomatic relations would be established at an early date. By this act, we came to terms with one of the central and inescapable facts of the region and redressed a serious imbalance and distortion in Australia's foreign policy. Australia's Ambassador has already arrived in Peking to assume charge of pur Mission and on 17 May, China's Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Wang  Kuo Ch'uan presented his credentials to the GovernorGeneral. 
We plan to develop a substantial relationship with China, based on friendship, cooperation and mutual trust, comparable with that which we have, or seek, with other major powers. To this end, we have already begun actively to explore the practical means of giving substance to this recently established relationship. We aim at developing policies which will promote understanding, mutual benefit and a growing degree of co-operation between Australia and China. Personal visits, expansion of trade, and scientific, technical and cultural exchanges will help put our relationship on a solid footing. China's policies, particularly in areas of direct interest for Australia, will be of great importance to us. But China will by no means be the central preoccupation of our foreign policy. Our relationship with China will not develop at the expense of our relations with other countries. 
In the same spirit, the Government has decided to establish diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the German Democratic Republic, Cyprus, Poland and the Vatican and to make informal contacts with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Similarly we have decided that on commercial trade with the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea, North 
Vietnam and China, Australia will no longer maintain restraints different from those applied to any other country. These changes in our policy in no way affect the restrictions placed by Australia on the export of arms, warlike stores and atomic energy materials. The foundations have already been laid for an expansion of our commercial relations. In March this year we welcomed to Australia the Minister for Foreign Trade of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Mr Patolichev,  and a highlevel Australian trade delegation led by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has just completed a successful visit to China. We expect a North Korean trade delegation to visit Australia in the middle of this year. 
It is self-evident that the extension of Australia's diplomatic representation overseas, the opening up of new trade opportunities and the development of our international relations on a more global and general basis are the very reverse of isolationist or inward-looking policies. They commit Australia more than ever before to playing, a significant and enlightened role in world affairs. Isolationism is not an option for Australia. It should also be clear from our actions that we have not forsaken established relationships in our efforts to break down old ideological' barriers against understanding and co-operation. We shall, for example, be giving even more economic aid to South Vietnam in the coming year than the previous Government did in the last. Tn pursuit of our even handed policy towards all the states of the region, we invited the Foreign Minister of South Korea,  Mr Yong  Shik Kim, to visit Australia for discussions on political and commercial matters. 
We shall maintain this policy in our' future dealings with all countries, irrespective of their political or ideological systems', and will not be deterred or diverted from this course by unthinking accusations that we are favouring one nation or group of nations over another. We are not moving into anybody's orbit. 
By the same token we do not seek membership of the non-aligned movement. There has been some misunderstanding on this point. We would be prepared to accept observer status at the next non-aligned meeting in Algiers if Australia were invited. There is nothing incompatible between our policy, of alignment and our attendance in an observer capacity at a non-aligned meeting. No one has suggested that Australia was seeking to become a 
Latin American country because we welcomed he opportunity to attend the last meeting of the Organisation of American States in Washington as an observer. 
It was therefore only logical that we should from an early stage have examined the possibilities of bringing into existence the kind of regional community which, as I said in my speech to the Summer School of the Australian Institute of Political Science on 26 January, would be 'an organisation genuinely representative of the region, without ideological overtones, conceived as an initiative to help free the region of Great Power rivalries that have bedevilled its progress for decades and designed te insulate the region against ideological interference from the Great Powers'. 
The only purely regional political organisation of which we are currently a member, the Asian and Pacific Council, quite obviously fails to meet our requirements, since its membership is both limited and selective and includes an entity which we and some other members no longer recognise. 
Australia does not belong to the Association of South East Asian Nations, which brings together Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, nor do we Seek membership of it. ASEAN has demonstrated its strength and viability as a subregional grouping and it is not in our interests nor is it our intention willingly or unwittingly to disturb the unity, progress and harmony of that association. 
It is clear that the new regional arrangements we have in mind will be a slow and delicate growth. We are content at present to let the concept take seed in the thinking of our neighbours in the belief that our approach holds the best long-term promise for bringing about a greater and more lasting measure of regional co-operation and understanding. We remain completely flexible on the timing, structure and membership of any future arrangements. Meanwhile, we shall devote our efforts towards strengthening bilateral relations and continuing careful discussion of future regional co-operation until such time as the countries of the area are ready to participate in a wider regional grouping. Ohe way in which we shall seek to develop these bilateral relations is through our association and consultation with out regional fellow members of the Security Council. 
An important element of our co-operation with our neighbours is defence co-operation. The form that it takes, however, is vital for the furtherance of our purposes if it is not to serve contrary ends by aggravating the very tendencies and developments which it is designed to head off. Australia believes that the tactics of containment, forward defence and ideological confrontation are not only no longer relevant but counter-productive. 
Australia is involved in regional defence arrangements, some of long standing, whose continued functioning and value were accepted without question by previous governments. We have not assumed and endorsed these commitments uncritically but are submitting them all to close scrutiny to determine their usefulness and appropriateness in an age which bears witness to growing ideological co-existence and strategic interdependence between the great and small powers alike. We believe for instance that the South East Asia Treaty Organisation - conceived as an instrument for the containment of China in the cold war era - must be modified if it is not to become completely moribund. Wa believe that our pledge to uphold the FivePower Arrangements does not require the stationing of forces abroad on permanent garrison duty for its redemption. We believe that there should be full co-operation between Australia and the other participants in the Five-Power Arrangements and that one way in which this co-operation can be effective is through the holding of joint military exercises. We propose initially to have these held on a bilateral basis before investigating the possibility of carrying them out multilaterally. We will also continue to make facilities available for training personnel in Australia. 
Our program of defence co-operation with Indonesia is very much in accord with the Australian Labor Government's philosophy and will serve as a model for future arrangements of this kind. Its guiding aim is to promote self-reliance and the capability to resist external threats. It does not favour the permanent stationing of Australian military forces abroad, but looks to the development of relations in the defence field through cooperation in such areas as technical aid, training assistance, joint exercises and continuing consultation. The Government will seek cooperation of this kind with our regional neighbours on an informal basis without the need for fixed and formal military pacts. It is on this basis that Australia and Indonesia have together worked out a program of defence co-operation which will continue to be further developed. 
However, our civil aid -  2i  times the value of our defence aid - is an even more important element in our relations with Indonesia. Our policy on civil aid to Indonesia should serve as an indicator of the approach we shall increasingly adopt in future to Australian activity of this kind overseas. The economic problems faced by Indonesia are common to most of the developing countries in the region. Their efforts are principally directed towards generating more rapid economic growth, creating wider employment activities, maintaining and accelerating expansion of the agricultural sector, achieving more balanced regional development and greater diversification of the economic structure, and providing improved social welfare. These are important goals for all our neighbours. Australia - will seek an expanding role in helping our neighbours reach those goals. 
Our civil aid and defence policies will have a particular bearing on Australia's future relationship with Papua New Guinea, whose independence will be achieved, I confidently expect, in the closest consultation with the Government and House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea by 1975. Though the constitutional link has not yet been severed, we shall increasingly consider our policies towards Papua New Guinea not in any nostalgic colonial sense, but as though we were already dealing with a fully independent state. 
In the period before independence the Government will do everything possible to meet Australia's obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement and to ensure the smooth and amicable transfers of power to the Government of a united Papua New Guinea. We very well know how important this period is for the foundation of Australia's future relationship with the independent nation of Papua New Guinea. I look forward to this relationship developing fraternally and on a broad front that goes well beyond normal diplomatic ties. Papua New Guinea will occupy a special position on Australia's network of relationships, but we do not seek an exclusive relationship with . Papua New Guinea which will want to find its own place in the international community; As Papua New Guinea's foreign service develops and as its range of international interests grow, we shall be ready to help where we can and as we are asked. 
Papua New Guinea will have the first call on our foreign aid program and we shall work closely with the Central Government of Papua New Guinea through a specific and guaranteed economic program. We shall, however, place no inhibitions whatsoever on the Government of Papua New Guinea in seeking aid or investment from any country she may choose to invite to take part in her development. 
We are also anxious that outstanding questions relating to Papua New Guinea's borders should be settled at an early date so that, when independence is attained, Papua New Guinea's relations with its near neighbours will not be plagued by the kind of territorial disputes which in other parts of the world have done so much to hinder the development of fruitful and mutually beneficial 1 clarions between close neighbours. We welcome the successful delineation of the Papua New Guinea-Indonesia border and attach considerable importance to the early negotiation of administrative arrangements between AustraliaPapua New Guinea and Indonesia to avoid potential sources of friction on the Papua New Guinea-Indonesian border. I regret that despite my Government's best endeavours early progress towards agreement on the border between Australia and Papua New Guinea seems unlikely and final agreement may have to await Papua New Guinea's independence. 
As well as the close personal, official and political links that have grown between Australia and Papua New Guinea, there are several strong common interests which we share. Perhaps the most important of these is our shared interest in further consolidating our friendly ties with our closest neighbour, Indonesia. Not only must our 3 countries cooperate in the interests of our own peoples and of the region in which we are situated, but we must in our mutual relations seek to set an example of harmonious regional cooperation. Similarly in the other area of close interest to both of us, the South Pacific, we should, in the future, seek with Papua New Guinea and our other friends in the Pacific to build on progress so far achieved in developing regional co-operation, friendship and partnership. The recent meeting of the Pacific 
Forum attended by both Papua New Guinea and Australia was a useful step in this direction. 
One of the forms which the quest for longer-term security measures has taken is in proposals relating to zones of peace and neutrality in South East Asia and the Indian Ocean. We consider that these proposals have essentially the same objectives as our conception of a new regional community, namely, to allow peaceful development and thยป adjustment of relations among the countries to cur west and north, free, so far as is possible, from outside interference. On this understanding we have pledged our support for the ASEAN Declaration on South East Asia as a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality, and we shall work towards its eventual implementation; and, in a spirit of co-operation with other countries in the area, we have agreed to serve on a United Nations Committee to examine the implications of a Sri Lankan proposal to have the Indian Ocean declared a zone of peace. 
The maintenance of our alliance with the United States under ANZUS remains most important for our security, since by its very nature it has created and guarantees in the Pacific a zone of peace in which the peoples of the region have for the last 20 years been free to pursue their political, economic and social goals without fear of hostile intervention or attack. The ANZUS Treaty reflects a natural relationship between these countries of the Pacific. Its continuation is not questioned by any of its partners. 
The most disturbing matter presently troubling the South Pacific is the continuation of French nuclear testing. This is the more distressing as in all other respects we have the friendliest and most honourable associations with France. Australia is party to the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the NonProliferation Treaty and the Sea Bed Arms Control Treaty, and supports the conclusion of an effective and comprehensive nuclear weapons test ban treaty. We are opposed to all forms of nuclear weapons testing by whatever nation and our objective is the suspension of all such testing. There should be no doubts or misunderstandings about the strength of our resolve on this issue. We have registered with the Chinese Government Australia's opposition to its nuclear weapons testing in the atmosphere and are pursuing with the utmost vigor an international legal and political campaign to induce France to abandon its testing program in the Pacific. 
The World Health Assembly in Geneva has just adopted by a vote of 87 to 4, with 10 abstentions, a resolution deploring all nuclear testing which results in an increase in the level of ionizing radiation in the atmosphere and urging its immediate cessation. 
Given the feelings of public outrage throughout the Pacific region and bipartisan parliamentary condemnation in Australia of French plans to proceed with its nuclear weapons tests, the Government has acted dispassionately and with considerable restraint, because of the great value it attaches to its wider relations with France, by exploring all possible avenues in seeking a solution to this disagreement. We have used the normal diplomatic channels as well as ministerial meetings and technical exchanges to find a way out of this major problem, but so far without success. 
It is in the context of our attitudes to nuclear testing that the presence of 2 of the United States installations in Australia should be seen. The United States Air Force detachment at Amberley and the joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station at Alice Springs collectively possess technical facilities to monitor the testing of nuclear devices in the atmosphere, on the surface and underground. The Australian Government has access not only to the products of these 2 installations but also to the other wider assessments to which they contribute. It is therefore a positive asset to have established in Australia the means of contributing towards the achievement and monitoring of disarmament. 
Prompt, reliable and comprehensive information is vital to the maintenance of global peace and security. We have previously informed the public that the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap near Alice Springs and the Joint Defence Space Communications at Nurrungar are related to satellites and that they analyse and test data. We have also stated that neither installation is part of a weapons system and neither can be used to attack any country, and we have been concerned that they contribute specifically to the improvement and development of Australia's defence system. , 
The Government still has certain reservations about the United States Naval Communication Station at North West Cape and it is our intention to seek a renegotiation of the original terms of the agreement establishing this station in Australia. 
I want to emphasise, however, that in our relations with the United States as with all other nations we should not allow any single aspect of our relations to dominate our whole approach. The importance of ANZUS has tended to overshadow the variety s*s strength of our relations in other fields, such as trade, finance, investment, technology, aviation and culture, which, no less than our defence links, have brought us substantial rewards and benefits. Similarly, under previous Governments, Australia has been remiss in devoting her principal efforts and attention to fostering commercial and economic collaboration with Japan without at the same time adequately exploring and exploiting the social and cultural resources which each has to offer the other. We shall seek to remedy these shortcomings. We intend to base our relations with Japan on our desire for wholehearted co-operation in promoting the common interests of our 2 countries and of the region in which we are two of the wealthiest powers. 
Just as we plan to address ourselves in future to all the various possibilities of our relationships with other countries, so shall we take increasing account of the global extent of our interests. It is only natural that we should have concentrated our initial efforts on establishing the basis for understanding and co-operation in our own geographical region, but it has no way been our wish or intention to underestimate or neglect the importance of our ties with the rest of the world. 
One of the crucial ways in which we must improve our global reputation is to apply our aspirations for equality at home to our relations with the peoples of the world as a whole. Just as we have embarked on a determined campaign to restore the Australian Aborigines to their rightful place in Australian society, so we have an obligation to remove methodically from Australia's laws and practices all racially discriminatory provisions and from international activities any hint or suggestion that we favour policies, decrees or resolutions that seek to differentiate between peoples on the basis of the colour of their skins. As an island nation of predominantly European inhabitants situated on the edge of Asia, we cannot afford the stigma of racialism. 
Since taking office, the Government has set about systematically fulfilling this policy goal. On 20 March, on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of racial discrimination, I reaffirmed our intention to ratify the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination as soon as the necessary legislative and other measures could be completed. Our decision to deny racially selected sports teams the right to visit or transit Australia should also be seen in this light. We have demonstrated our active concern for the rights of peoples oppressed in Rhodesia and South Africa by voting in favour of the last 2 United Nations General Assembly resolutions on Rhodesia, which we had not previously supported, terminating al] trade to and from Rhodesia, and by seeking the closure of the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney. 
Australia has also contributed for the first time to the United Nations funds established to assist the educational development and other aspirations of the people of Southern Africa. We were represented at an international conference of experts for the support of victims of colonialism and apartheid in Southern Africa held in Oslo in April this year. The purpose of this conference was to formulate a constructive program of peaceful action to facilitate and hasten the process of decolonisation and the elimination of apartheid. 
Further, we have signed, as a first step towards ratification, the 1966 International Covenants on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and on Civil and Political Rights. The Government has ratified 2 International Labor Organisation conventions dealing with freedom of association  -  -1948  -  and protection of the right to organise and with the right to organise and bargain collectively  -  1949. As the Minister for Labour stated in the House on Tuesday, we are ratifying a number of other ILO conventions as soon as possible, in particular those dealing with equal remuneration  -  1951  -  and with discrimination in the fields of employment and occupation  -  '1958. The, Government has made financial contributions to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and the International Planned Parenthood Federation. 
In formulating our foreign policies we are particularly conscious of the needs of the developing countries. Since 1945 Australia has spent more than $A1.8 billion on official economic aid. The Government intends not only to expand present programs in Asia, the Pacific and Africa, but will be working towards an official aid target of 0.7 per cent of the. gross national product by the end of the decade. Furthermore the Government has already taken steps to liberalise commercial access by developing countries to the Australian market through additional concessions under Australia's preference scheme for developing countries. Consideration is also being given to further changes in Australia's preferential trade with these countries. 
Finally there is one area of importance, if not vital domestic concern, which has profound implications for our foreign policy in the future. It is an area in which each step we take within Australia will have repercussions overseas and in which demands overseas will affect each and every one of us in Australia. It is the area of natural resources. Under the policy of benign neglect tolerated by our predecessors, Australia's national resources, their exploration, exploitation, processing and export fell increasingly into the hands of foreign concerns. This was an intolerable situation in itself. But it has a more significant international dimension. Australia possesses a wide range of mineral resources. We rank among the world's 5 main producers of bauxite, iron ore, tin, nickel, silver, lead, zinc, manganese and uranium. In many cases, our importance in the world as a producer is increasing. 
At the same time, the western industrialised world is becoming steadily less self-sufficient in mineral and energy resources. This is particularly true of the United States, which has in the space of 20 years become dependent on foreign sources for more than 20 important industrial minerals in which it was previously self-sufficient. Mineral and energy imports currently cost the United States some US$10 billion a year, and the trend towards growing dependence on imported supplies  of  oil was one of the key aspects of President Nixon's recent statement on United States energy policies. Similar trends are evident in Western Europe, while Japan has long been  a  heavy importer as she lacks natural resources  of  her own. 
In response to these trends, and as they become increasingly preoccupied with ensuring access to continuing supplies  of  the fuel and mineral resources on which their economies depend, these countries may be expected to evolve comprehensive resource policies like those already adopted by Japan. Because of our political and economic strength and stability, we are likely to become a significant element in the resource strategies of the importing countries. This will have a substantial effect on our bilateral and even multilateral relations, as we build up a mutually beneficial system of economic interdependence. In short, we are moving into a situation where our commercial and strategic importance to the Western world is giving us a growing political voice. 
Now that the procurement of resources is becoming a vital national interest for industrialised countries increasingly short of mineral resources, any domestic resource legislation we make is bound to affect our. relations with these countries. It is becoming, apparent that we can no longer regard resources legislation in purely domestic terms, but that implications for our foreign relations . need increasingly to be taken into account in. the planning of government action. 
We consider that the stage has now been reached where Australia needs to develop policies of its own that take account of the fact that we are becoming the object of others' resource strategies. We must develop policies to ensure our continued access to those resources in which we are not selfsufficient, especially fuel. We have taken numerous steps with a view to securing greater Australian and government' control and supervision of the use of our natural resources. Australia has asserted its sovereign rights to explore and exploit the natural resources of its continental shelf out to the outer shelf of the continental margin. At negotiations preceding the next . Law of the Sea Conference, Australia has advocated the exclusive jurisdiction of a coastal state over a broad resources zone extending well beyond the territorial sea. But there are wider issues involved than the reassertion of our sovereignty over the territory of Australia. 
Current resource trends, and our importance as a producer, will oblige us to define our attitudes on a range of new developments of considerable importance in bilateral and multilateral diplomacy. I am thinking of such matters as resource conferences, the question of resource producer and consumer cooperative cartels, regulations for the distribution of resource data acquired by satellite and technological collaboration. All this will require a considerably greater degree of foreign policy expertise than we have at present, and it is with this in mind that the Government has decided to appoint a scientific adviser to the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Our possession of a wide range and extensive reserves of resources at a time of unprecedented global resource consumption introduces an element of new complexity into our foreign relations. It alters our strategic thinking, colours our bilateral relations, and presents us with a range of important policy options, il consider resource questions will become a very important aspect of our foreign policy, and to that end this Government aims to work towards a comprehensive, integrated resource .policy which takes our foreign as well as domestic interest into account. 
In developing and implementing our international policies, visits abroad by Ministers and visits to Australia by representatives of foreign governments play a most important and constructive part. The visits I have made and planned for this year and later are primarily as Prime Minister of Australia. When he is overseas, the Prime Minister is necessarily Foreign Minister, whether he holds the portfolio er not. This year's overseas missions to ' New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, the South Pacific Forum, Britain, the Vatican. Mauritius, India, Mexico, North America, Japan and China are part of my responsibilities as Prime Minister, even more than as Foreign Minister. Parallel to my own visits, are those of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  to Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, and those to be undertaken by the Special Minister of State to African nations in June. Our own increased activity abroad is matched by an increasing number of visitors to Australia - from every continent. I have already mentioned some of them. We have had a most valuable visit by the Malaysian  Deputy  Prime Minister, Tun  Dr Ismail,  and I am delighted to announce tonight that invitations to visit later this year have been accepted by the Foreign Minister of Singapore and the Philippines, General Romulo and of Singapore  Mr Rajaratnam.  There has been no time in our history when Australia has attracted so much interest abroad and, I emphasise, such friendly interest in all quarters. We are glad to wel come the Danish Foreign Minister,  Mr Andersen,  who is at present visiting Australia.  Mr President,  as our nation, our region and world civilisation move into a more complex, more challenging yet, I profoundly believe, more hopeful era our Government is determined to equip Australia with policies and attitudes to cope with that complexity, to rise to those challenges and to fulfil those hopes. 
Our task in recent months has been largely one of clearing away the deadwood of the past. This was necessary to permit us to deal in a constructive, contemporary way with the new realities. In most cases we have made no radical departure but rather have ratified these realities. 
We now stand ready to develop and carry through, in co-operation with our neighbours, policies and programs which will take Australia forward, as I told the people of Australia on 13 November 1972, to her rightful, proud, secure and independent place in the future of our region of the world. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, I present the fiftieth annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay upon the table copies of letters exchanged during the process of termination of the United Kingdom-Australia Trade Agreement. 
 In reply - Some questions were raised in the course of the debate.  Senator Webster  asked why the exemption is to be included as an amendment to the Prices Justification Bill. That will be explained, really, when I introduce the amendment. But, briefly, it is to ease the administrative problem of companies, and of the Tribunal, in relation to many products of different kinds, mainly in departmental stores. Several representatives from these stores waited on the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  He saw the weight of their argument. But perhaps we can leave that until I introduce the amendment and I can make the explanation then.  Senator Webster  also asked whether the Tribunal could extend the time of its inquiry if companies had not provided the Tribunal with sufficient information. He asked how the company would know what would be sufficient information. That clause is a safeguard against companies deliberately withholding information so that they can take advantage of the time limit. 
There has been a bit of confusion. From time to time honourable senators have been referring to this Bill as being a price control Bill.  Senator Laucke  made the point that it was unfair to ask people to reduce their profits or their prices. 1 think this overlooks the other side of the picture which is that it is also unfair if big companies get themselves into a situation where they, in turn, can be unfair to the people to whom they are selling goods. There has been some criticism of the fact that we have confined this Bill to 325 companies. Honourable senators have asked: Why .not the rest?' Obviously, if we included everybody, the Tribunal would never get around to doing anything. The administrative task would be just impossible. That number was fixed because it was thought that that would bring in something which was controllable and something which would have an effect if this legislation were to work. This is new in the field of Australian law. lt will be a new experience and it may well be that there will have to be amendments to the proposed legislation. Not at any time has it been claimed to be a panacea. One thing with which we are in agreement is that inflation is one of the things in the world today to which the economists do not have an answer. All we are saying is that we are going to try, in some way, to stop the rate of inflation which applied over the last couple of years of the last Government and which is continuing. This is one way of attacking the problem. 
I freely admit that this legislation is new in the Australian context. I suppose it is a trial. But it is not of much good for all of us to agree that inflation is bad and that runaway inflation finally does not do anyone any good. We should realise that all our lifetimes we have lived in an inflationary situation. We. have also lived in a deflationary situation and we do not want to go back to those days when prices were low because so many people were unemployed and there was poverty and misery throughout the nation. It seems to me that the economists have not found the answer. At the same time we would like those things we desire and we would like to be able to guarantee what the rate of inflation will be. The Opposition does not intend to vote against the Bill. I shall move an amendment which will go some way towards meeting the criticism of the Opposition. As I will explain in the Committee stage, this amendment has come about because business people waited on the Treasurer and he felt that the weight of their suggestions ought to be reflected in the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I said that the proposed amendment would exempt the company or companies concerned only from the requirement to notify new prices and not implement them for 21 days and that it would not exempt such companies from the Bill as a whole, but that the Tribunal would still have the power to inquire into their prices if it so wished. Was that the point  Senator Webster  raised? 
 I will comment briefly. I know that  Senator Cotton  has put these proposals forward as suggestions. To use his own word, the answer to his question in relation to clause 12 is that common sense would have to be used. This position arises in many situations. After all, a member of a Cabinet is always expected to withdraw from any discussion concerning something in which he has a pecuniary interest or an indirect pecuniary interest.  Senator Cotton  took the example of smoking. I suppose that we could pick drinking in relation to an inquiry into a brewery. A person could be said to be interested because of the fact that he liked an occasional glass of beer. Even senators have been known to like an occasional glass of beer. People appointed to this Tribunal would be persons of standing and of common sense. I do not think that the case which  Senator Cotton  mentioned is a real example. Clause 12 means that if a person is a director of a company concerned in an inquiry or a company that trades with the company into which an inquiry is being made, that person should not take part in that inquiry. I take on board what he has said. I do not think any real worry arises in this respect. Referring to his suggestion that the Bill as a whole should be withdrawn, as I said earlier today, this is the first time in our history that legislation to set up a body of this type has been introduced in the Parliament. Do not worry if it does not work. The matter will certainly come back to the Parliament for fresh instructions in that case. 
Pursuant to the resolution of the Senate of 14 March 1973 I lay upon the table of the Senate the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  relating te the report on Japan of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
In passing - although it has nothing to do with the clause -  Senator Cotton  said that no Labor Party senator had got up because one could not defend the indefensible. The fact is that 1 asked for no Labor speakers to get up. I knew that the Opposition had a series of speakers. Frankly, 1 thought it had more than it would have when it was agreeing with the Bill. But we know the situation before us. There are ;i lot of controversial Bills to be considered. We can talk about sitting right through the winter and all the rest of it but, in practical politics, we ought not to do that. 1 have asked honourable senators to hold themselves back. It is merely a question of time.  Senator Cotton  has pointed out that the members of the Tribunal shall be appointed by the Governor-General and referred to the fact that we have not laid down guidelines. The types of people for whom we are looking are pretty obvious. At the same time I think it would be limiting if we started to match accountancy against economics and experience in trade against somebody else. The honourable senator asks for an assurance that qualifications will be taken into consideration. 1 give him that assurance. 
I said everything that  Senator Webster  asks me to say in reply to the second reading debate, so I do not think I will worry about that.  Senator Wright  asked what type of goods might be prescribed. Of course, this is a matter for the Tribunal itself. The provision to exclude by regulation specified goods and services provides flexibility to deal with situations or problems likely to be revealed by experience. For example, this provision will be effective if it transpires that application of the measures to, say, financial institutions is difficult and/ or unnecessary. I understand also that the Tribunal may decide to prescribe such things as perishables and secondhand goods, which immediately come to mind. 

 Senator Webster virtually asked me to repeat what 1 said in my reply to the second reading debate. He asked why $20m was chosen. I said it in the second reading speech; I said it in reply to the second reading debate; I will say it again now: The limit of $20m has been struck to ensure that the scheme will be administratively manageable and yet bring under scrutiny prices charged by the major companies which are the price leaders in the community and whose activities can have a significant impact on price levels generally. In relation to  Senator Webster's  example of a company with a turnover of less than $20m a year being able to charge higher prices without going to the Tribunal, I would suggest that if a company is charging a lower price than another for the same product, that is the company which will get the customer. 
 I move: 
In clause 18, after sub-clause  (7),  add the following sub-clauses: 
The Tribunal may,  by  resolution, authorise the  Chairman  to exempt a specified company, or companies included in a specified class of companies, either generally or otherwise, from the application of this section and may, by further resolution, authorise the  Chairman  to revoke such an exemption. 
An exemption, or the revocation of an exemption, under sub-section (8) shall be in writing and a copy of the exemption or revocation shall be published in the Gazette, and such an exemption or revocation takes effect on the date of publication of the copy. 
Evidence of an exemption, or of a revocation of an exemption, under subjection (8) may, in any legal proceedings, be given by the production of the Gazette purporting to contain a copy of the exemption or revocation.' 
In moving this amendment the Government is taking into account various representations it has received concerning the Bill. The Government recognised, when it introduced the Bill, that there could be room for improvement, as the Bill broke new ground and we could not be certain that it would meet all eventualities. 
The amendment proposed will enable the Tribunal to exempt a company or companies, either generally or in relation to particular goods or services or classes of goods or services, from the requirement to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases and proposed prices for new products, and to refrain from implementing the proposed new prices for up to 21 days. This will provide scope for overcoming a potential problem for companies such as department stores, and no doubt some manufacturers, selling many thousands of products of many kinds. There could be a large administrative problem for such companies, and for the Tribunal, if a price clearance had to be obtained for every one of the great number of items handled by such companies. There could also be problems if the companies had to refrain from putting the goods on sale until a price clearance was obtained from the Tribunal. There would be a particular problem in relation to perishable goods, such as meat, poultry, vegetables, and so on. These are seasonal goods whose prices vary frequently, and which would be unsaleable if sales were delayed for up to 21 days. The proposed amendment would exempt the company or companies concerned only from the requirement to notify new prices and not implement them for 21 days. 
It would not except such companies from the Act as a whole; the Tribunal would still have the power to inquire into their prices if it so wished. 
I do not think that  Senator Durack  really was serious when he said that there could be a situation in which the Tribunal could exempt completely the very thing that it is being set up to do. 
 I know that the honourable senator is saying but surely he is not seriously suggesting that the Government will set up a tribunal composed of responsible people in the community and then, under this clause, exempt everything that it should be investigating. 1 think that  Senator Webster  was right on the ball in the first part of his speech but then he got involved in politics and suggested that the Minister could say that because he liked the cut of a fellow running a company he would give him a break. 1 suppose this could have been done for donkey's years by the Grants Commission or by the Tariff Board but it has never happened. Honourable people in the community have been appointed to carry out a specified job laid down by the Parliament and they have done so. The results can be seen in the history of Australia. Following  Senator Webster's  argument, over the last 23 years the former governments could have told the Grants Commis- sion not to do anything for States run by Labor governments. Of course they did not do so, and of course the Grants Commission would never have listened to such a suggestion if it was ever made. I know that previous governments would never have suggested such a thing. 
Some honourable senators seem to think that this amendment should not be passed. I am happy to put it before the Committee and to have it accepted or rejected, and I suggest that we do that quickly. Why was this amendment moved? It was moved because some members of the business community waited on the Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and pointed out the difficulties involved. 
I do not know.  Mr Crean  spoke to me and told me that an amendment would be moved. He said it had been pointed out that there would be difficulties and he thought that that was right. He said that, therefore, the Government should take the advice and amend the Bill accordingly. That is why this amendment is before us. If the Committee wishes to reject it, that is perfectly OK; we will revert to the original Bill. There would be no skin off my nose. The point raised by  Senator Webster  iri regard to the first part of it. the one to which he is attracted, is the gravamen of the whole argument. Parts of a company could be excluded. It could be that a company could deal in part with perishables and that part could be excluded. That would exclude that part from the operation of the Act. But if that exclusion brought the company below the turnover of $20m and down to, say, $17m, it would not exclude the rest of the company from the whole of the Act. The reference to a specified class of company was put in largely because of the question of retail operations. This was one of the worries associated with constructing the Bill. Consider a company like Woolworths or the case that the honourable senator mentioned. A company could handle dozens, hundreds or even thousands of items. It would be a great burden on and probably an impossibility for a retail company of that type to advise the Tribunal, and it would be very difficult if not impossible for the Tribunal to be able to examine that situation. Therefore the Tribunal has the chance, if it finds a company in that situation, to say that it will be exempt. I do not think honourable senators should suggest that there will be Government interference with a body such as this which it sets up. After all, the honourable senator's Party might be in government shortly, or at least he hopes that it will be. Does he suggest that in that case his Government would interfere with any of the bodies I have mentioned or with this body or any other body which it might set up? 1 come back to the point raised by  Senator Durack.  Of course we will not have a tribunal which says: 'Prices justification is our task but we will give it all away by exemption rates'. We are dealing with a new and difficult field. As I said earlier, this clause is included because we want to be practical about the whole operation. To say that the Parliament has no check on this body is contrary to the facts because clause 35 states: 
The Tribunal shall, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report with respect to the operations of the Tribunal  during  the year ended on that date 
The Minister shall cause the report to be tabled before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House . . . 
This Tribunal will not be a body on which the Parliament cannot keep its finger. This amendment has been put forward because the business community pointed out to the Treasurer a weakness in the Bill. He believed that what he was told was right and he has strengthened the Bill. If the Committee does not agree with him, I suggest that we vote on the amendment and if it is rejected, so be it. 
1 think I should deal with the points as they arise. Clause 23 refers to information. I think that clause 23(5) covers the point raised by  Senator Cotton.  It states: 
The Tribunal shall not make information or documents available to any person in accordance with sub-section (4) if the company concerned informs the Tribunal that it objects to the information or documents being so made available and the Tribunal is satisfied that the information is, or the documents are, of a confidential nature. 
It is true that the matter is left in the hands of the Tribunal but I think that is the way it must be. We could not allow trivial sorts of complaints to come in. There is an indication to the Tribunal that it must respect the wishes of the company if the request is reasonable. 
 The Tribunal may be one man but I think that that sort of thing has to go back to the  Chairman.  I think there would be an overall authority there. However the honourable senator's remarks are on record. I would not be greatly concerned about that point. Clause 28 states: 
Where', after an inquiry, the Tribunal furnishes a report to the Minister, the Tribunal shall cause the company concerned to be notified of the furnishing of the report and of the date on which the report was furnished. 
The honourable senator's point was that there should be a chance for the Tribunal- 
 There should be a chance for the company to be informed of it? 
 I shall refer that matter. Clause 29 (2) refers to the time for which documents and books may be kept. I think that again there is an indication or a direction given to the Tribunal in sub-clause (2) which states: 
Books or documents so furnished may be retained by the Tribunal for such reasonable period as the Tribunal thinks fit. 
I know that play could be made on the word reasonable' but it is one which is pretty well used in law, and there is a direction to the Tribunal that it is not to maliciously or lightly hold books, documents or papers for any longer than is necessary. I will ask the Treasury to give me any more information it has on the question of what is a company. But this is an area that is still untested. I believe that it was put in there largely for the retail trade because of the particular situation that  Senator Webster  raised earlier. 
The question by  Senator Mulvihill  really amounts to a suggestion. I will take note of it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's first question is that the primary purpose of  Dr Cairns's  visit to China was trade. 
Let me answer the questions one by one. That was the subject of about the fifth question. The second question asked whether  Dr Cairns  spent most of his time talking to several people on political questions. No, he did not spend most of his time or an undue amount of his time doing that. The honourable senator mentioned, amongst other names, the name of Norodom Sihanouk.  Dr Cairns  did not have talks with him. I have not seen the statement that  Dr Cairns  made during an ABC broadcast. The honourable senator asked whether  Dr Cairns  was out of touch with the Australian Embassy.  Dr Cairns  was not out of touch with the Australian Embassy; he was in very close touch with it.  Dr Cairns  used the communications facilities offered to him by our Embassy in Peking. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn many times to the plight of political prisoners in South Vietnam. The situation with regard to political prisoners is - I have stated it here before - that Australia is not a signatory to the Accords which were signed between the various parties to the Vietnam settlement. Therefore, if we were to take action by making statements or trying to suggest anything to the parties, it could well be regarded as outside interference. We have no legal rights in the situation. Part of the ceasefire agreement was that the 2 parties should proceed towards the exchange of prisoners. Some prisoners have been released; the release of others has been delayed by all sorts of arguments. Our information is that there is no doubt that prisoners are still being held. Our attitude to the question of aid to the Indo-China states has been that we will make the most generous aid that is possible available to the whole of the Indo-China states. 
Very obviously it is difficult to make aid available to Khmer, although some aid is trickling through to that country while the fighting continues. We stand ready to give postwar aid the moment a post-war situation arises in that country. We have not placed any ideological embargos on either side regarding the question of aid. The 5 YCW boys who were arrested have been the subject of discussion all around the world and here, I take it, by the world wide YCW organisation. In fact, only yesterday a contingent from that organisation met me and discussed these general questions with me. The situation regarding the 5 YCW boys is that four of them have been released and the fifth one is to stand trial on criminal charges. 
Yes, we have made inquiries into this matter.  Mr Colig  is one of a group of 9 persons about whom we have been inquiring and in respect of whom questions have been asked in this place.  I  might add to the general situation. The question asked whether we have made inquiries. Our Ambassador had a 2-hour discussion with  Mr Banovic,  the Minister for the Interior in Yugoslavia, on 23 May on the subject of Australians detained in Yugoslavia. The points which emerged from that talk were that we have asked for the death certificates of those people who have been executed, and the Federal Executive Council in Yugoslavia has directed that the death certificates be issued urgently. They come not through the Minister for the Interior but through the Minister for Justice. We also have asked that the Sarajevo dossier be transmitted to us and that the basic information be given on the 9 outstanding consular cases. 
Additionally, honourable senators know the problem concerning dual citizenship on which we have been working. Of course, dual citizenship does not apply in this case merely between Yugoslavia and Australia; it applies between Yugoslavia and every other country. But in spite of that, and in spite of the convention on which the Yugoslav authorities rest their case, we have been pressing that there ought to be a better working arrangement between us. The Yugoslav Government has agreed to assist with the development of a working arrangement, regardless of the technicalities relating to dual nationality. 
As I understand what the Prime Minister said at the Press conference this week, it was that his attitude towards the retention of an air force in Thailand is well known. He was referring to what he said some time ago. As to the question about whether we have complained about violations of the peace treaty in Vietnam, the answer is no, we have not complained to either side. 
Cambodia; I am sorry, I did not hear that. The situation there is such a delicate one that our advice is that at this stage we should not be protesting to any of the various governments which we frequently are told are committing violations and doing all sorts of things not to bring about peace in Vietnam. 
Yes, I can say quite categorically that the Australian Government is opposed to terrorist activities anywhere. As a result of a question which  Senator Greenwood  asked me last night I asked  Mr Zvogbo  whether he had been in gaol, how many dmes he had been in gaol and all about the matter. Last night when I said that there was no proof of this man being a terrorist, or words to that effect,  Senator Greenwood  interjected and said that this man had been in gaol.  Mr Zvogbo  informed me that he was first arrested and charged with carrying an illegal document. The illegal document was a statement which he had made before the Committee of Seventeen, which is now the Committee of Twenty-four, of the United Nations. It was a copy of his testimony. He was acquitted by the court. The second time that he was arrested was, I think, for a seditious utterance. 'Seditious' may be the wrong word, but I think that that was the charge. It was at a political rally when he said, in effect, as he told me, that violence breeds violence. He was charged with making a seditious utterance, if that was the charge. He was convicted. He appealed through all the appellate courts but lost the case and served 12 months in gaol. The day that he was released from gaol, on his information, he was banned to a section of Rhodesia. He was later gaoled for 7 years, without charge and, therefore, without trial. 
1 am just telling the Senate what he informed me. The discussions which I had with  Mr Zvogbo  roamed over the obvious, including his attitude towards the Smith regime. I have been asked what assurances I gave him. He drew my attention to what he considered was the failure of the Australian Government to carry out the United Nations sanctions. He specifically mentioned the selling of goods that were made in Rhodesia, Qantas Airways Ltd carrying passengers to Rhodesia and the operation of the Rhodesian Information Centre in New South Wales. I told him that  Mr Whitlam  had already given very definite instructions regarding Qantas. I told him that the case for the deregistration of the name of the Centre, and therefore the closing of it, was still before the court in New South Wales. 
There was one other matter. I apologise to  Senator Keeffe  for this. He asked me a question about this matter some time ago. Somehow my organisation has gone astray. I have not given him an answer yet. I apologise to him for that.  Mr Zvogbo  drew my attention to the fact that there had been advertisements in an Australian paper which sought to recruit staff for Rhodesia.  Mr Zvogbo  claimed that this was a breach of our undertaking in the United Nations. I undertook to look at these matters. They are the only subjects we discussed. They are the only assurances I gave him. 
There is one little point that  Senator Carrick  missed. Colig was one of the group of 9 persons about whom we are making inquiries quite apart from the Bosnian incident. Yes, we are aware of the circumstances of  Mr Colig.  Yes, we have been in touch because the Embassy staff was making inquiries about  Mr Colig  previously. They were able eventually to recover  Mrs Colig'S  passport which had been impounded, and they returned it to her. So they are obviously in touch with  Mrs Colig. 
On 1 May 1973  Senator Devitt  asked me a question without notice concerning currency revaluation compensation. The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: 
Submissions from rural export industries seeking assistance in respect of the December 1972 revaluation will be considered by the Government on the basis of the criteria announced by the Minister for Primary Industry on 6 February 1973. 
The conditions under which the Government will provide financial assistance to exporters of manufactured goods affected by the December 1972 revaluation were announced by the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry on 10 April 1973. A further announcement will be made in due course concerning the lodgment of applications for assistance. 
As to whether an application for assistance has been received from the company A. Wander Ltd, I draw the attention of the honourable senator to the reply, given by the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry to a question without notice on 2 May (page 1554 of Hansard). I understand that, subsequently, the Minister received a letter on this matter from the General Manager of Wander (Australia) Pty Ltd. 
On 9 May 1973,  Senator Cotton  asked me a question without notice concerning interest rate on Commonwealth loan. The Treasurer has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The terms and conditions for Commonwealth loans are decided by the Loan Council on which the Australian Government and each of the State Governments is represented. In deciding on the terms for any particular loan, the 'Loan Council normally seeks to offer the lowest practicable rates of interest at which a reasonable loan result can be expected, but it recognises that to achieve such a result the rates and other conditions offered must also be realistic and competitive with those offered by private sector borrowers. 
Interest rates on government securities offered in the  Mav  loan art above those offered in the February loan but below those offered in some other Commonwealth, loans in recent years. The rates offered in the May loan are in line with yields prevailing in the market for government securities. 
In the period between the February loan and the May loan there was a substantial outflow of funds from Australia which reinforced the normal seasonal run-down in liquidity. The demand for funds by the private sector was stimulated by the rising level of activity in the economy and private sector interest rates rose significantly. Consequential market pressures also lifted yields on government securities. 
As the Prime Minister said in his opening statement at the Premiers' Conference held on 10 May last: 
Similarly, in approaching the difficult decisions involved in setting terms for the May loan recently announced - decisions in which of course you in your capacities as members of the Loan Council have so responsibly participated - we have had to set aside what we would have liked to do in favour of what it was clearly necessary to do. We have, in short, met the yields which, since the February loan, had emerged in the market. To have attempted to maintain a lower yield structure would have meant continuing large-scale purchases of bonds by the Reserve Bank with consequent expansionary effects upon the liquidity of the private sector. In present and prospective circumstances we were not prepared to countenance such an outcome.' 
As to the effect which this rise in Government bond rates will have in due course on the matters referred to by the honourable senator, I can best refer him to a further comment by the Prime Minister in that same statement: 
It is I think agreed on all sides that, whatever other steps may be necessary to check inflation, all are likely to prove futile unless fiscal and monetary policies in the broad are sensibly and responsibly geared to the productive capacity of the economy. Such policies are not, in themselves, enough: but we believe - and we are supported by all competent opinion both within Australia and overseas - that they are the essential basis, the sine qua non, for an effective anti-inflationary strategy.' 
-Obviously the gratuitous remarks about  Mr Whitlam  have nothing to do with any of the portfolios that I represent. 
I do not know the answer to the honourable senator's question. I will find out and let her know. 
The part of the question which can be answered - without the gratuitous remarks at the end of it - is that part which relates to the $300 in an account. That position is being looked at. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I  ask  for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
Thai the Bill be sow read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second  time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The Minister for Services and Property whom I represent in this chamber will, of course, read Hansard. I would hesitate to pass a question like that on to the Minister because that Minister is  Mr Daly,  and we all know his infinite wit. I do not know what sort of an answer we might get back. 
I do not think that he did. It is not a part of  Senator Murphy's  Department. I am sure that he would have conferred with officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs before he did that. Dealing with the matter seriously, I may say that there was a newspaper item on this. The position is that before moving into the new accommodation the Australian mission in New York, since 1958, had accommodation at 750 Third Avenue. Space available in that building amounted to just under 9,000 square feet at a cost of $5.50 per square foot. This accommodation became inadequate and it was demonstrated that some 13,300 square feet would be required. An extensive search was conducted for suitable accommodation in the vicinity of the United Nations headquarters. The accommodation now occupied at No. 1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza was the most suitable and the price paid  -  $9.95 per square foot all inclusive - is quite normal for accommodation in the desired area. The very fact that the French mission is also in the same building would suggest that we can hardly be the last of the big spenders. It is essential for the effective operation of the Mission that it be situated near the United Nations headquarters and within ready reach of other foreign missions. 
When I became associated with the Department of Foreign Affairs this was one of the first things that I had to look at. The whole question of overseas properties - they are quite considerable - had fallen into a chaotic situation. We had properties on which we could not get buildings constructed and we had buildings on which we could not get anything done. There was quite a history over the previous 4 years of the Department supposed to be handling this but not doing so. We have bad to start virtually from scratch to build our own organisation. I would hope that within 12 months or so - bearing in mind that we have started on one building - we will be able to build up our own organisation with Australian thought, Australian architects and Australian designers instead of having to run from one department to another. Sometimes, in Asian and in African countries we have had difficulty in obtaining architects and matters have had to be dealt with between the Department of Works, the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Immigration and all the rest of the people concerned. It was quite obvious what had to be done. There should be a very small body of people with these skills who could work on buildings overseas all the time. This is one of the things on which we have virtually had to start from scratch. 
-Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreements Act 1947, I present the report on the operations of that Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay upon the table of the Senate a report of the Council of the National Library of Australia. The report is by the Scientific and Technological Information Services Inquiry Committee which was established by the Council. The report is dated May 1973. I ask for leave to make a short statement in regard to that report. 
Because of the point raised by  Senator Webster,  I think I should make 2 very brief comments.  Senator. Cotton  in the course of criticisms of the expenditure by new departments and general government expenditure mentioned a block of land which had been bought by tender in Paris for $7m. It does sound a lot of money but I am sure that  Senator Cotton,  as a businessman, would recognise that when one is in the market, the market price is what one has to live by. I glanced quickly at the Canberra Times' during the luncheon adjournment and noticed that somebody had paid $4.4m yesterday for a block of land in Civic. Canberra is one of the smallest cities in the world and Paris one of the largest. I do not even claim that that is probably a very good analogy. 
I think the honourable senator understands that that is what happens in business. I think the Government would be criticised if it continued the policy of the previous Government which was to rent properties overseas. We would be told: 'Well, there you are. You are still renting properties. They are old; they are unsuitable; they are in the central business district' and so on. It is one of those matters on which a government cannot win. If it buys the property it will be criticised; if it does not buy the property it will be criticised. I believe that the properties in which we have invested around the world can be classed as pretty good buys when property values are considered. I say that in passing. 
I regretted that  Senator Cotton  said that this Government which is purchasing the site for an embassy in Paris is seeking to create bad relations with France. Of course, he does not really mean that. He knows perfectly well that the Government is not seeking bad relations. The fact is that we have an outstanding disagreement with France at the moment concerning French nuclear testing. The Leader of his Party,  Mr Snedden,  and other members of his Party have agreed with our stand. The more that problem can be isolated the better. 

 Senator Webster raised the question this morning of the company which the Government wanted to take over to do the work for the proposed Pipeline Authority. The paid up capital of that company is $5. I am advised that the suggestion of the Australian Gas Light Company is that this is the best commercial way to go about our proposal. It is not the only way. It could probably be done in another half a dozen ways. The $5 company is merely the instrument which the Australian Gas Light Company has set up. The takeover will be made in a normal commercial way with normal safeguards. It will be a most substantial company with assets and liabilities of millions of dollars. When that company is taken over money will be owing to the Australian Gas Light Company. The Commonwealth Government will become the director of the company. This will be 'he operating company. 
I refer now to the question of buying pipes. I am advised that had we refused to take over the buying of the pipes already contracted for we could have been up for a breach of contract. The existing contracts which the Australian Gas Light Company and EastAustralia Pipeline Corporation Ltd have with the Japanese will be taken over at the time of the acquisition of the company. As I have said, it need not have been done in this manner. It could have been done in any other way. I Understand that what is proposed is a simple, common commercial operation which was suggested by the Australian Gas Light Company. I  agree  with  Senator Douglas  McClelland that it is time that the question before the Senate was determined. The Bill has to be passed through the Committee stage. We would like the Bill passed today; otherwise people will not get their salaries tomorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  agreed to: 
That clauses1 to 5 be postponed until after consideration of the Schedules. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the votes be considered in the same groupings and order as in Estimates Committees A, B, C, D, E and F. 
 To assist the Committee, might I point out by way of interjection that the memorandum requested by  Senator Wright  last evening has been worked out fairly quickly by the department. The appropriations for the Attorney-General's Department are shown to total$125,100,950. I inform honourable senators that the correct figure for the Attorney-General's Department should be $30,334,900. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory on the basis of 2 senators for each Territory. The Bill provides for the election of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and that such senators have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States; that the first election of Territory senators be held at the same time as the next Senate elections in the several States or at the same time as the next general elections for members of the House of Representatives, if such is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate elections; that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election for Territory senators, elections be held at the same time as the general elections for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election of Territory senators, the terms of Territory senators be the period between each House of Representatives election; and for the Territory senators to be elected under the same system of proportional representation as that currently applicable to the election of senators representing the States, except in the case of a single casual vacancy when such vacancy shall be filled by the holding of a by-election adopting the procedures used for filling a single casual vacancy for a State senator, as far as may be applicable. 
Under another Bill to be presented later today, Territory senators be excluded for the purpose of determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of Section 10 of the Representation Act. 
With this legislation the Australian Labor Party asserts the particular responsibility this Parliament bears towards these two mainland Territories which are under the direct control of the Parliament. Honourable senators will know that before the Commonwealth accepted the Northern Territory from South Australia and the A.C.T. from New South Wales, residents of both of them were represented in the Parliaments of those 2 States in the same way as all other residents were represented. The Territories were incorporated in electorates for the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales and the House of Assembly of South Australia. The Northern Territory was included in a province for the Legislative Council of South Australia and the citizens of the area now comprising the Australian Capital Territory were eligible for appointment to the Legislative Council of New South Wales. When the Territories were surrendered to the Commonwealth their citizens were disfranchised and were denied parliamentary representation for a considerable time. 
In 1922 the Northern Territory was given representation in the Australian Parliament by one member in this chamber. He was not entitled to vote on any matter. In 1936 he was given the right to vote on a motion to disallow an Ordinance affecting the Northern Territory. In 1959 he was given the further right to vote on any Bill which related solely to the Northern Territory. Whether or not a Bill was related solely to the Northern Territory was determined by the Presiding Officer or, if there was objection to the ruling of the Presiding Officer, by the House. In 1968 the member for the Northern Territory became entitled to vote on any matter. In my second reading speech on the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill I recounted the history of representation of the Australian Capital Territory in the Australian Parliament. I shall not repeat it. 
The provisions contained in this Bill are on similar lines to those proposed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the Territory Senators Bills introduced by him when Leader of the Opposition in 1968 and in 1970. The justification for the provision of senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory was expounded by the Prime Minister on these occasions and such justification has continued to exist and to grow with the growth and the development of the two Territories. Since 1967 the A.C.T. Advisory Council has been pressing for Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory. At its meeting on 11 December 1967 the following resolution was carried: 
This Council advises the Minister that the Australian Capital Territory should be allowed representation in the Senate and seeks the Minister's assurance that he will do everything possible to persuade the Government to introduce the necessary legislation in Parliament in order that citizens of this Territory are no longer denied adequate and proper parliamentary representation. 
The continuing development of the Australian Capital Territory and its high percentage population growth highlights the need for this Territory to be represented in both Houses. The Legislative Council of the Northern Territory has sought Senate representation for the Northern Territory on several occasions over many years. In 1969, the Legislative Council asked by resolution for the representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate by 2 senators. The Northern Territory, comprising an area of 520,280 square miles, is a vital part of Australia which should be represented in the Senate in addition to the representation of its people in the House of Representatives. 
Before I deal with the main argument in support of the Bill I should perhaps refer to the position under the Constitution. Section 7 of the Constitution provides: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State . . . 
The Constitution further provides for an initial number of 6 senators but that the Parliament could make laws increasing or diminishing the number of senators for each State but that equal representation of the States was to be maintained and no original State could have less than 6 senators. The Constitution therefore provided for equality of State representation irrespective of the area or the population. Section 121 of the Constitution provides: 
The Parliament may admit to the Commonwealth or establish new States, and may upon such admission or establishment make or impose such terms or conditions, including the extent of representation in either House of Parliament, as it thinks fit. 
The Australian Parliament therefore could admit new States but was not required to accord equality with the original States. 
Section 122 of the Constitution is relevant to the question of representation of a Territory in the Federal Parliament. It provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the Authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
It is clearly permissive. It was therefore the clear intention of the founders of the Australian Constitution that Parliament should be empowered to permit representation of residents of the Territories of the Commonwealth in the National Parliament, lt seems clear beyond doubt also that they recognised the injustice of disfranchising a person simply because he transferred from a State to a Territory of the Commonwealth. 
I now refer briefly to a further section of the Constitution which is relevant to the Bill. Section 24 provides: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the Senators. 
The Bill before the Senate will increase the number of senators by 4 making a total of 64 senators in all. I mention here a very significant matter. On the basis of advice by the Commonwealth legal advisers, the provision for Territory senators by virtue of section 122 of the Constitution does not cause an alteration in the number of members of the House of Representatives by virtue of section 24. Therefore the 4 senators representing the Territories will be excluded in determining the number of members to be chosen in the several States, in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. 
Having established the constitutionality of the measure, I would like to outline some of the reasons why it is necessary and desirable to extend representation in the Senate 10 the 2 Territories. The population of each Territory is increasing at a much greater rate than the populations of the States but at the moment the only representation in the Australian Parliament of either Territory is one member in the House of Representatives with no representation in the Senate. On the lastest information available from the National Capital Development Commission it has been assessed that the population of Canberra could reach the half million level between 1992 and 1996 and that a population of 600,000 at the year 2000 is feasible, based on a decreasing percentage growth rate. 
The people of both Territories pay taxes in accordance with the law. They are subject to the same laws but are not represented in the Senate where they are surely entitled to have presented to this chamber the views of the residents of their respective Territories. Again, because the Australian Parliament is responsible in the Territories for making laws in respect of matters reserved under the Constitution to the States, the Government should be answerable to both Houses of a Parliament each of which includes appropriate representation from the Territories. This Bill provides for representation for the Territories in the Senate in a manner different in extent and nature from the representation of the States in the Senate and as I pointed out this difference is authorised by the Constitution. In particular, instead of having 10 senators for each Territory as there are for each State there will be 2 Senators for each Territory. 
Two Senators are suggested because it would be proper to have an even number representing the Territories. If only one senator alone represented a Territory, almost cer tainly the one Party would be represented for long periods. It is probable that both senators would belong to the same Party. It would appear then to be more democratic to have an even number elected each time for each Territory thus following the pattern of the major parties providing that each would have a representative in the Senate. The term provided for each of these Territorial senators is not 6 years, the constitutional period for State senators, except in the case of double dissolution. The term for Territory senators will be the life of the House of Representatives. The main difference in representation which the Bill provides for the Territories as distinct from the States is the term of office. The Constitution expressly provides requirements as to the terms of office for senators representing the States. The Constitution leaves it to this Parliament to determine the terms of office for senators representing the Territories. 
The Government has adapted the method which was unanimously agreed to 15 years ago by the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties in the House were represented. It was recommended by the Committee that the Constitution should be amended to provide that there should be an election for half the senators every time there was an election for the House of Representatives. The Committee believed that this would cut down the number of elections and so minimize the distraction of elections and the difference between the two Houses. The decision to bring the elections of Territory senators into line with those of the House of Representatives is in accordance with the Constitutional Review Committee's findings. Both senators will be elected every time there is a general election of the House of Representatives. So for the Territories there will be elections for both Houses of Parliament at the same time. When this Bill passes the Parliament, the writs will be issued for the election of senators for the Territories concurrent with the next Senate general election or House of Representatives general election, whichever is the sooner. Thereafter all the senators for the Territories will retire at each House of Representatives election. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
No, the position certainly will not be helped at all. The situation in Iceland is a very difficult one in which we all sympathise. Australia has an interest in it because of our attitude to the law of the sea. Shots have been fired and it is a time when the help of all nations ought to be applied. We should not have people interfering in such a technical matter. 
 Mr President,  I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
In his first question the honourable senator asked for an opinion, which I am not bound to give. He asked whether in my opinion mature consideration was given to the legislation before it came to the Senate. Yes, I think it was - not by my Department, but by the Treasury. Generally, the criticism of the Treasury is that it gives too much mature consideration to matters that come before this chamber. On the question of how the Tribunal will operate and a comparison of one company with another, I think we explained, and it was fairly %?ell debated, why the figure of $20m was set. There is nothing magical about that figure. It just came within the bounds of practicability. If the figure were reduced to $lm, it might be argued that a company with an annual turnover of less than $lm should not be exempted from the provisions of the legislation any more than a company with an annual turnover of less than $20m or $30m. It would be impossible for the Tribunal to deal with the price rises of companies with ar annual turnover of $lm or more. A bureaucracy as big as the Public Service itself would be needed and it still would not be able to handle the work. That is the reason why the figure of ยง20m was set. 
A comparison could be made, as  Senator Webster  has suggested, between a company with an annual turnover of $20m and one with an annual turnover of about $19m. A situation could arise where one company had an annual turnover of $19m and was not bound to accept the opinion of the Tribunal; but if it started to sell products at a cheaper rate its annual turnover would quickly go up to more than $20m. That is the law of supply and demand. I understand that members of the Liberal Party always say that people will buy on the cheapest market. So, on their own argument, this situation will improve itself. As to the general working of the scheme, the Tribunal is another commission and it will have to make largely its own guidelines, outside the parameters fixed by the Parliament, as it goes along. 
 I do not have a copy of the Treaty in front of me, therefore I can not quote from Article IV of it. The general aspect of SEATO is that each constituent state will take note of a situation and act within its own constitutional situation. So if Australia was not to be embroiled or involved, it would be as a result of a decision of this Government. The same would apply for any of the other constitutent bodies. 
Yes, I think that Erskine Childers is  President  of Ireland. I understand that the election was to choose a  president.  As I remember Irish politics, he is in opposition to the present Prime Minister who is in a different political party from (Erskine Childers. Ireland is a remarkable place. Attention is drawn to the fact that in a Catholic country a Protestant has been appointed as  President.  This is the country which for many years had a Jewish lord mayor in one of its cities. The tolerance of the Irish people seems to be greater than that in some other countries we know. 
On that note, I think I will close. 
'First, I thank  Senator Greenwood  for his good wishes. The answer to his question lies in the difference between the attitude of this Government and that of the previous Government to world affairs. At the outset, we said that no longer would we continue the situation of Australia having a father-son relationship with the bigger nations; rather would our relationship be that of brother to brother. That policy should not surprise anybody as I have said it at least 100 times in this place and it has been expressed by every Labor man who has sat here. We believe that the former relationship with other nations was wrong. We also said that we would get away from the racist tag which had been dogging Australia for so many years. 
The last Minister to visit only some of these countries which I will visit was the then Treasurer, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, who did so 12 years ago. He attended a meeting of treasurers or a meeting concerned with finance in one of these countries and decided to drop in on some of the other countries. The leaders of these countries meet regularly with the Australian Prime Minister at Prime Ministers' conferences, yet they have no connection with us at other times. We do give some aid to some of these countries. A number of representations are received from them. Mir Malecela made a special trip to Australia to meet the new Government only a little while ago. 
The previous Government took virtually a contumelious attitude in ignoring these people for so long. We think it is completely wrong. Honourable senators will remember that previous governments from 1950 until the time of the Prime Ministership of  Mr Harold  Holt very rarely had a Prime Minister visit Asian areas. To his everlasting credit  Mr Holt  corrected that situation the moment that he became Prime Minister. I want to have talks with these people on several matters. I also want to see those people who will be meeting the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  at Ottawa. I look forward also to meeting foreign Ministers whom we may meet at the United Nations later this year. 
I have asked our embassies along the way to arrange for me to meet as many people in my field as possible. I particularly want to meet the Foreign Ministers and those people who will be meeting  Mr Whitlam  later in the year. They are the first 2 categories df people I ought to see on my trip. The honourable senator referred to Leaders of Oppositions. I will be happy to meet people of divergent views if time permits. 
It always seems that the moment the Government wants to do anything - we saw this in relation to the French tests - people in the Opposition try to undercut the Government's position. I wonder what sort of Australians they really are. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 1 am informed that IBM 360 Model 30 computers are installed in the Sydney and Melbourne offices of the Reserve Bank of Australia and that IBM Australia Limited provides engineering maintenance of the equipment on a regular and 'on call' basis. The equipment is used for a variety of processing and other purposes, none of which involves information that can be regarded from the national point of view as being of a highly confidential or top secret nature. For example, information processed by the equipment regarding funds movements in and out of Australia is statistical information of an historical nature and the  results of the processing of the information are reflected in statistics published regularly by the Reserve Bank. 
Control programs for the equipment are maintained by and in the custody of Reserve Bank staff and the equipment is operated only by authorised Reserve Bank officers. The claim referred to in the honourable senator's question has been thoroughly investigated and the Governor of the Reserve Bank has advised me that the Bank is completely satisfied that the information processed by the equipment remains secure. 
On 23 May 1973,  Senator Lawrie  asked the following question, without notice: 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that some insurance companies are refusing to insure certain popular makes of new motor cars in the Australian Capital Territory? I point out that this applies also to someof the States. Does the Government condone this discrimination? Will the Government have a full investigation made to see whether certain makes of cars are more accident prone than others and, if this is the case, endeavour to find the cause? Will the Government treat this matter as urgent in view of the mounting road toll? 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My attention has been drawn to press reports made by the NRMA Insurance Ltd that they will refuse to insure Falcon GT and Lotus motor cars with comprehensive motor vehicle insurance. To my knowledge this decision applies in the Australian Capital Territory and the State of New South Wales. 
I have been advised by the NRMA Insurance Ltd that their decision not to insure Lotus motor cars is based on the high cost of replacement parts for these imported vehicles. The decision not to insure Falcon 
GT motor cars is based on the insurance experience set out below with a comparison with a Holden Kingswood 6 cylinder vehicle: 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table of the Senate a statement by the Special Minister of State relating to a visit to Africa in June and July 1973. 
-I do not know the exact wording. I will find out and advise the honourable senator. 
The state of play, as far as I know it, is that the Budget Speech tonight is expected to be a little longer than usual. I understand that in the past there have been difficulties about permitting broadcasts before the 
Parliament itself had been informed of the contents of the Budget. I was talking to  Mr Crean  about this matter this morning or yesterday afternoon- I am not sure which- and he told me that an effort had been made to agree with the media about a time limit to be put on broadcasts -somewhere about 9.20 p.m., I thought it was. I was watching a television show one night recently, and that was the time which that channel selected. It would give a broadcast on the Budget at that time- 9.20 p.m. I think the time limit has been relaxed to the point that if something newsworthy is mentioned in the opening sentence that can be handled. A note from my friend the Minister for the Media states that anything said before 9 p.m. can be used on the 9 p.m. news. I understand that there is no discrimination, that the media has been dealt with as the media in toto. 
I present the following papers: 
Civil Works Program 1973-74 
Payments to or for the States, 1973-74. 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1 974. 
Expenditure- 
Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the year ending 30 June 1 974. 
Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1 974. 
Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1973. 
Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics for Income Year 1970-71. 
National Income and Expenditure, 1972-73. 
Australia 's External Aid, 1 973-74. 
Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government. 
Report on Possible Ways of Increasing Imports. and move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
Tonight the Treasurer is delivering in another place his Budget Speech for 1973-74. It is my privilege to outline to the Senate the budget proposals of the Government. 
This Budget incorporates far more decisions than any previous Budget. Its overriding theme is one of reform. It is designed both to clear the decks for progress in the years ahead and to ensure that in major areas of concern- social welfare, education, the quality of urban life- real forward moves are made immediately. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is no. The answer to the first part of the question is: I will refer it to the Minister for the Capital Territory whom I represent in this place. 
I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer in the other place. 
For the information of honourable senators,  I  table the first report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commision. When releasing  the  report  to the  public on 3 August,  I  stated that because of the importance of the subject matter  of the  Commission, it had been decided to make this first report public immediately and before  the  Government had considered it. At that time, copies were sent to all honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives. Now, this first opportunity is taken to lay the report before the Parliament. 
For the information of honourable senators,I present the statistical returns from each of  the  6 States showing the voting within each subdivision in relation to the general elections tor the House of Representatives, 1972, and the statistical returns from Queensland showing the voting within each sub-division in relation to the Senate election, 1972. 
 This does relate to the Budget. A lot of matters relating to Post Office finances were raised. Later in the day the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral will be tabling a statement which was made last night by the Postmaster-General. I trust that that statement will assist the honourable senator in coping with his problems. 
by leave - 1 would like to report briefly on the recent overseas visit to Mexico of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - the first by an Australian Prime Minister - to the United States and to represent Australia at the Commonwealth heads of government meeting in Ottawa. The text I shall read is identical with that given to the House of Representatives. Therefore, honourable senators will understand that the pronoun'I' refers to the Prime Minister himself. 
I believe the visit was timely and useful to Australia both in establishing new and significant contacts overseas at the Head of Government level and in developing the more diversified and independent foreign policy for Australia to which the Government is committed. 
In combining a visit to Mexico and a visit to Washington with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in OttawaI was able to restore a more appropriate balance to our approach to Central and North America. Washington is not the sole capital in that vast hemisphere. 
On 23 May 1973,  Senator Hannan  addressed the following question without notice to the Minister representing the Treasurer: 
Is the Minister aware that shareholders in Australian banks with British domiciles at present are adversely affected as to approximately 30 per cent of their dividends by current British legislation aimed at inflation. Will the Minister investigate this position and, if whatI say is so, will he take appropriate action to speed up the renegotiation of the long standing double taxation agreement between Australia and Great Britain? 
The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware of the recent changes which have been made in the British system of taxing companies and their shareholders. Australian officials are examining the technical aspects of these changes and their implications not only for Australian shareholders receiving dividends from United Kingdom companies but in other directions also. As part of this examination, Australian officials have had talks with their British counterparts on technical aspects of the new British system, and will report to the Government on its significance. 
On 23 May 1973,  Senator Devitt  asked me a question without notice concerning a special tax concession for Tasmania. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I appreciate the honourable senator's concern at what he sees as the economic and financial disability facing Tasmania. It is, of course, in recognition of that financial disability that the Australian Government regularly provides to Tasmania special grants, on the basis of recommendations made after extensive investigation and inquiry by the Grants Commission. As to the income tax concession the honourable senator has asked me to consider for the whole of Tasmania, as a supplement to the existing income tax zone allowance, I point out the possible implications for that suggestion arising out of Section 51 (ii) of the Constitution. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the joint communique issued at the conclusion of the visit to India by the Prime Minster  (Mr Whitlam)  from 3-6 June 1973. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move that leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the National Library Act 1960-1967. 
The question is clearly out of order. It seeks an opinion. 
 I was not listening intently to the question but I picked up its purport. It seems that somebody owes somebody some money. I will certainly inquire into it. I. will see that the somebody who is owed the money is paid. 
-Senator Carrick is obviously hopelessly confused about the Budget. The second part of his question has no basis of truth. As to the first part of the question in which he talks about scaling down income tax, we have said continually - we said it before the election - that 23 years of ineptitude of the previous Government could not be overcome in one year. We never said that any of our promises would be carried out in the first few months. We have found out only since we have been the Government the extent of both the ineptitude of the previous Government and the hopeless morass in which the various departments are floundering. Our promises will be carried out over a period of time and not in the first 6 or 7 months of our administration. 
 Senator Lillico  has added something new to a question which I have answered on several occasions. As I have said several times before, the Australian Government has stated' that it stands ready to give generous aid to the Indo-Chinese states. Obviously one cannot give post-war aid while there is not a post-war situation. For instance, we are not yet in a position to give post-war aid to Cambodia. The second point I want to make is that we have said that we will give aid irrespective of the politics of the people concerned and their governments, however they might settle down in the 4 Indo-Chinese states. In North Vietnam there are people who are hospitalised. Also as a result of the bombings there are many amputees. This is one direction in which aid can be given. We are not very concerned - and probably the amputee is not very interested - whether we are giving aid to a communist government, a noncommunist government, a fascist government or a neutral government. 
The point raised by  Senator Lillico  which I have not answered before concerns the amount of aid that has gone into Vietnam. At the moment applications have been made for wool and roofing iron to the value of approximately $660,000. This material is scheduled for delivery early in October. Aid to South Vietnam has been going on for some time and I think the figure for this year is about 75 per cent higher than that for last year. 
I would be very surprised if they were not. I think the latter part of the question ought to be handed to the Treasurer to see whether it is possible to tighten up some of these loopholes. 
 The answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question is no. As to the second part of the question I will inquire from the other 2 Ministers whether they intend to be present at the meeting referred to. 
I will ask the Treasurer to supply that information to  Senator Guilfoyle. 
I do not know. I will find out for  Senator Greenwood  and let him know. 
 It is always dangerous when a person 'begins a question on a wrong premise. The honourable senator began his question by saying that we see virtues in the Chinese testing because it is being done over their own people and they will be the first to suffer from the fall-out. We see no virtues in any country conducting nuclear tests, and we have made that abundantly clear. We made it clear to the Chinese when  Mr Whitlam  visited China before we became the Government. We have done it officially in both Peking and here.  Dr Cairns  conveyed that view to the Chinese when he was in China.  Senator Murphy  himself in this place has attacked nuclear tests. We see no virtues at all in nuclear tests. Our consistent attitude has been that it is not only a question of the pollution of the area of fall-out but also a question involving the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. We want to see this pollution not only cut down but possibly eliminated. What  Senator Sim  has said shows the false attitude that he takes. He knows perfectly well that we do not see any virtues in this situation at all. The whole thrust of this propaganda is that we are protesting against the French tests but we are not protesting against the Chinese tests. There is not one tittle of evidence to support that suggestion. 
There is not. We have protested and the honourable senator has seen this. He cannot snap out of the old cold war attitude. If the honourable senator is so blind to the facts I suggest that he keep quiet about these things. 
We said before the election that direct taxes would not be increased and that promise was carried out.  Senator Carrick  is bringing up a matter which ought not be raised at question time. If the honourable senator wants to debate this matter and if he feels that there is some other way to balance the expenditure side of the Budget and pay for the pension increases and our moves into decentralisation and all the other areas into which previous governments never moved, I will be interested to hear him in debate on it. 
It is formal. Pursuant to notice I move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the National Library Act 1960-67. 
The Bill will be introduced at a later date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which seeks to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act relating to the redistribution of States into electoral divisions, is identical to the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 which was introduced in the House of Representatives on 13 March 1973 and passed on 4 April 1973. As honourable senators know, the motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in the Senate on 17 May 1973. The second reading speech on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973, when first introduced, was incorporated in Hansard dated 10 April 1973- pages 953 to 956  -  where the details and the purposes of the amendments were fully explained. 
The Bill seeks to change only sections 19 and 25 of Part III of the Commonwealth Electoral Act dealing with the redistribution of the States into electoral divisions. It is proposed that all other provisions of Part III of the Act which specify the procedure for redistributions of States into electoral divisions, be retained. The amendments proposed will have the effect of: 
reducing the permissible variation from the quota specified in section 19 (1) from one-fifth to one-tenth; 
revising the factors (section 19(2)) to which the Distribution Commissioners are required to give due consideration by deleting the reference to: 
disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance; 
the density or sparsity of population of the division; and 
the area of the division; and 
varying section 25(2)(b) to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by one-tenth (in lieu of one-fifth). 
The proposed amendment of section 25(2)(b) is a natural corollary to the amendment of section 19(1) reducing the margin of allowance from the quota to 10 per cent. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, the purpose of these amendments is perfectly clear: The principle of 'one vote one value' must be established as the fundamental objective of redistribution and our intentions were publicised before the last elections at which the people elected an Australian Labor Party government. We propose a permissible variation from the quota of electors sufficient to enable the Distribution Commissioners to give due consideration to factors which are consistent with the equal representation principle which the Australian Labor Party, both in Opposition and in government, has consistently enunciated. (Quorum formed.) 
Factors such as 'the area of the Division', the density or sparsity of population ' and references to 'disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance' inserted by the previous Government in 1965, are contrary to the concept of equality of political rights and encourage departure from the quota of electors in a manner which makes the value of a citizen's vote depend largely upon his geographical location. 
The changes proposed by this Bill are designed to provide by legislative measures that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another and to give some meaningful application to the principle of one vote one value' without unneccessarily restricting the Distribution Commissioners in proposing a redistribution. The existing 20 per cent permissible variation from the quota which allows a Division to have 50 per cent more electors than another Division in the same State and which was introduced in 1902 when Australia had a population of about 4 million, as against 13 million today, can no longer be tolerated in our society. 
Section 24 of the Constitution provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people. Thus, the Constitution itself ensures equality of representation between States based on the numbers of people resident in those States, a condition which the Australian Labor Party believes should also apply within the several States. Based on the population revealed at the last census. New South Wales for example is entitled to 45 members while Western Australia, which comprises nearly one-third of the whole of Australia, is entitled to 10 members. Obviously, the founders of the Constitution did not take cognizance of the area, density or sparsity of population and disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, in framing section 24. 
It is evident that the area of Divisions and the density or sparsity of population in Divisions cannot be uniformly applied throughout the States. The Government believes that people should be the controlling factor, not only for determining the representation for the States in the House of Representatives, but also for determining Divisions within those States. The Government regards this Bill as a major piece of our legislative program, and in re-submitting it we expect that the Parliament will adopt a responsible approach and that the measure will be afforded a speedy passage through the Senate. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
On 28 March 1973,  Senator Gietzelt  asked the following question, without notice: 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property refers to the fact that 500,000 people will become eligible to be enrolled because of the recent decision to lower the voting age to 18 years. Will the Minister make arrangements for electoral officers to visit all high schools, technical colleges and universities to advise on the procedure for voter registration. Will the Minister also give consideration to a nation-wide television campaign to ensure that all these new eligible voters are made aware of their responsibility to enrol. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Subject to approval being obtained from the authorities concerned, arrangements will be made for electoral officers to visit high schools and technical colleges to lecture students relative to enrolment and voting rights. It is not intended to extend the exercise to universities as it is doubtful whether the desired results would flow from lectures thereat. 
Television advertising of these rights would not be a worthwhile proposition economically, but a wide radio advertising campaign was undertaken with a view to attracting the attention of those 18, 19 and 20 year olds who had not submitted claims for enrolment. A series of display advertisements encouraging the 18-19-20 year olds to enrol were placed in all major newspapers throughout Australia. 
We have nothing official on this in the Department. I understand that  Dr Klugman  was refused admission to Czechoslovakia. We do not know the reasons for the refusal. It is the right of any government to issue visas to enter its country. As far as I know we have Clot made any application to find out why  Dr Klugman  was refused entry. 
I will refer the question to the appropriate Minister and get  a  reply. 
-Some very exaggerated statements have appeared in the Press about TAA carrying groups of Portuguese soldiers to Timor. TAA has never carried groups of soldiers in uniform and, to the best of its management's knowledge, it has never carried groups of soldiers in plain clothes. It does know, however, of a couple of occasions or of some occasions on which individual officers of the Portuguese Army have travelled in civilian clothes. It must be remembered, of course, that TAA is not the sole operator into Timor. Both the Portuguese and the Indonesians also have airlines operating into that place. 
 No, I have not read about the man who was going to sell his motor car. No, I cannot say whether the rest of the 2 million Singaporeans will sell their motor cars; I have no idea. As to the rows or arguments, I do not know what the honourable senator thinks an international conference is all about. Does he think people go along just to praise one another? These 2 people- Gough Whitlam and Lee Kuan Yew - have been friends for years. They have had these sorts of exchanges over the years. I was pleased with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference because at least a frank exchange of views took place. Members did not line up on racial grounds. 
While I was recently overseas it was described to me how these Conferences were carried on in the past. One head of government said to me that the Prime Minister of Britain would speak, the Prime Minister of Australia would support him and the white people would gather at one end of the table and the coloured people would go down to the other and that was about the end of the Conference. He said that a stage was being reached at which the conferences would no longer be held. At least the situation was different on this occasion. 
The fact is that there has been no breakdown of relations between Singapore and Australia.  Mr Whitlam  will be visiting Singapore in January of next year at the invitation of the Singaporean Government. That is the situation. The honourable senator put a tail on the end of his question as to whether trade between Australia and Singapore has risen or fallen between last December and now. I do not know what that has to do with the question. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Library Act 1960-67. The main amendments are to increase the size of the National Library Council by 2 appointed members; make the chief executive of the Library an executive member of the Council with the designation Director-General; and extend the definition of library material to take account of modern methods of communication. These amendments are intended to strengthen the National Library's capacity to meet rapidly changing circumstances in the area of its responsibilities and take particular account of recommendations for accelerated development of library and information services in science and technology contained in the report of the Scientific and Technological Information Services Inquiry which I tabled on 31 May. In addition we wish to make amendments of a machinery kind to the financial and audit provisions of the Act. 
In recent years - even in the decade since the original National Library Act was passed - there has been an 'information explosion' of unprecedented dimensions. The amount of recorded information in the world has been increasing at a rate beyond all past experience in both absolute volume and variety of forms - books, journals, microforms, films, audio tapes, video tapes and so on. Simultaneously the use of computer technology in the management of information collection and dissemination is advancing at an equally bewildering rate. It is crucially important in the national interest that we face up to the problems and opportunities created by these developments and shape our information services on a national scale so that they can meet effectively the developing needs of the Australian community as a whole. Achievement in various facets of Australian life - industry, health, education, leisure and so on - will depend increasingly on Australians being able to find their way to and through relevant areas of recorded knowledge. Prompt and efficient access can yield dramatic gains. 
In a special way the responsibility for Australian national information services lies with the Council of the National Library. While seeking to ensure effective organisation and use of its present resources and services, the Council has also given attention to identifying future needs for national information services and other functions under the National Library Act. Briefly this Act provides for 2 groups of functions embracing all areas of knowledge - firstly, establishing a national collection and making it available to users, and secondly, performing needed national services and co-operating with others in Australia or abroad in library matters, including the development of library science. Because provisions to be made at the national level will touch so many institutions and people, it is important to make clear in broad terms the Government's policy. 
Our objective is to develop, in co-operation with appropriate organisations at both State and local levels, programs for library and information services which recognise the importance of free and ready access to knowledge as a basic factor in material progress and in advancing the quality of life. We propose that the National Library will act as a chief source and channel of advice to the Government on library and information services. 
The Library will co-operate in the establishment of machinery to ensure adequate consultation- with Australian and State government departments and authorities and to shape and strengthen links with institutions and users throughout Australia by the establishment of advisory groups. It has in the past received, and has expressed a desire to continue to have available, the advice of the Australian Advisory Council on Bibliographic Services which represents the library community. It plans to take other measures to ensure that it has the best advice on the application of technology to information problems and to obtain through inquiry and research more authoritative information on the requirements of users than is at present available. We contemplate a re-organisation of the National Library to provide policy and planning capacity, together with resources and services in the major areas of external activity, namely, science and technology; social sciences and humanities; and the application of computing, telecommunications and microform technology to information problems. 
In this connection I might perhaps draw attention to 2 aspects of the STISEC report. The first is that the National Scientific and Technological Information System should not be created in isolation but as an integrated part of a total information system. The second is that one method of satisfying the needs for scientific and technological information might be to set up an authority under the National Library Act. In view of the overall responsibilities of the National Library Council it did not appear to the Government necessary or appropriate to have such a separate authority. The services which the STISEC report found were needed will be implemented through the new resources and services to which I have just referred and through associated advisory machinery. 
The physical and organisational coordination achieved through the 3 areas of activity developing to the activities centre of a nationwide network will enable us to make the maximum use of library collections and also the best use of the relatively limited numbers of personnel who are skilled in advanced methods of handling information. Where relevant services within the national system can be provided by existing specialised organisations, consideration will be given to assisting them financially to increase their effectiveness, but if assessments show that a new service is needed within the national system it may be provided either as part of the National Library or elsewhere in conjunction with other bodies. We look forward to continuing and extending our co-operation with State authorities and with institutions concerned with the problems of information transfer. We expect to be able to offer improved central services and technical assistance and a greatly improved access through the network centre to the resources of the whole system. 
I wish to stress that it is not proposed to create a monolithic centralised organisation. Rather, we propose an arrangement by which the National Library of Australia, in the context of a broad and evolving information policy, will become the centre of a nation-wide library and information system through which existing institutions may link up. It will also ensure rapid access through international channels to recent overseas information. 
The Government will, as necessary, introduce further amendments to the National Library Act enabling the Library to develop its role as library technology and information services develop at all levels in Australia. We recognise that programs of action will require the. provision of both human and material resources and we will view sympathetically the needs of the Library for capacity to perform its function. Under the aegis of the National Library Act we look to the rapid and cooperative evolution of library and information services in Australia to cope with the information explosion and the technological revolution in the handling of information. This Bill is a step towards that objective and I commend it to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Davidson)  adjourned. 
 in reply - I think the Senate is adopting the correct course in not going over all the ground that was covered when it rejected this Bill previously. I think that is a sensible approach. I also will be brief in order to give the Bill a quick passage because most of the debate took place when it was first introduced some 3 months ago. I was not here at the time and another Minister handled the Bill for me. Apart from  Senator Withers,  most honourable senators who took part in the debate confined their remarks to general comments. I will not go through all clauses in the Bill. However, I think that I should comment on one or two things that  Senator Withers  said. I regret that he used such dramatic and sinister terms in one of the remarks that he made. He said that there were ominous signs because the Surveyor-General in Western Australia was not appointed one of the distribution commissioners, contrary to past practice and despite his availability. Information has been given to me to indicate that he was not available for appointment. Another point is that in past practice - for instance, in the 1968 redistribution conducted by the LiberalCountry Party Government - the surveyorsgeneral in New South Wales and Queensland were not appointed. I do not suppose that this is very relevant but since it was put in such sinister terms I merely point out that it is not unique and that in this case the man was not available. 

 Senator McManus seems to think that there is something wrong with governments that try to perpetuate themselves in office. He suggested that the way would be wide open for us, providing we did what the Australian Democratic Labor Party wanted, namely to introduce a proportional system of representation. For whom would that do well? The Australian Democratic Labor Party is the very party that that would assist. If it is wrong for the Labor Party Government or other governments to be doing this, I suggest that it is wrong for the DLP to suggest that it ought to be done. Even if we had a system of proportional representation - it is true that there are people in our Party and in the community who think it would be a good idea- 
 I am agreeing with the honourable senator and saying that there are people in our Party and in the community who think that the proportional representation system- 
'How about letting me have my say. I listened to  Senator McManus  in silence. Of course, there are people in the community who have different views on this sort of thing. The fact is that none of the major political parties agree with it at this point of history. Therefore, they are not bringing it to the fore. I know that honourable senators of the DLP are suggesting it with the highest of motives. I am sure that they are not suggesting this to help themselves, which is the very thing that they consider would be wrong if it came from somebody else. Honourable senators can waffle on about this matter as long as they like, but how could any honourable senator say that votes should be of unequal value, that a barman in Melbourne should receive half the vote of a barman in a country district of Australia? We hear all the arguments about wealthy squatters and how they have invested in the country. The fact is that barmen, carpenters, labourers, schoolteachers or postmasters receive unequal votes, depending on their geographical location in Australia. 
The other point made by  Senator McManus  was that if this Bill were passed it would alter radically the parliamentary set-up. What is wrong with that, provided that it is just? What is wrong with altering this Parliament in regard to the number of senators and the number of people they represent? Such a system may elect many more independents, many more Labor Party representatives or many more Liberal Party representatives. But what is wrong with that, if it is just? What Opposition parties are doing is refusing to stand up to a just situation. They are refusing to stand up to a position in which one man's vote is as good as another man's vote. The position is as simple as that. Honourable senators can argue on and on, but the fact is that that proposition has been upheld in the courts of many countries, including the United States of America. All I say is that equal voting rights should be given to every person in Australia. 
As to the question of a double dissolution, I point out that this matter will not be decided by  Senator Withers  or by  Senator McManus;  it will be decided by the Australian Government. If we decide to go to a double dissolution it will be done along proper lines. We will not be rushing off to the Governor-General merely because of one or two things. If we think a situation has arisen justifying such action, we will take it. Honourable senators should not start bandying about words such as 'courage'. Some people in some of the States had a fair chance in the last few days to show courage but they have shown very little of it. 
May  I  say in conclusion that we often hear people in this place berating other countries and other people for being corrupt. I say to them very bluntly that a gerrymander is corruption in high places. It is corruption by the government of a country. That corruption is what we wish to see removed once and for all. It does not matter how long it has existed. When a gerrymander exists it is corruption; it is corruption by governments. Honourable senators opposite should not look down on the little bloke who is corrupt when they have practised this form of corruption and wish to continue practising it in the future. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
in reply - I was impressed by the point made by  Senator Prowse  and I will meet that. Honourable senators will remember that he said it would be wise not to proceed with this Bill so that the parties would have a chance to have a look at it. If I may be given a little leeway, I could reply to the second reading debate and say some things which I think may be of assistance in those sorts of considerations. Firstly, I thank all honourable senators, particularly  Senator Prowse  and  Senator Byrne,  for the suggestions that they have made. The suggestions are not new to me because I must confess that I went through  a  lot of trauma and a lot of agonising both with the Public Works Committee and with my own people before finally coming down with this figure of S2m. As  Senator Byrne  says, one would need to have the wisdom of Solomon to know whether  Senator Wright's  figure is right or whether my figure is right. I do not think that there is any need to go into this matter. I think that honourable senators know why we have had to alter the present figure in the Public Works Act. 

 Senator Prowse's figures are really amazing. In i2 years the number of matters referred to the Public Works Committee has increased from 3 to 54, and this bears out a lot of what  Senator Byrne  says about the question of statutory authorities. There is only one thing about this matter that I think we are overlooking. All works are subjected to some sort of scrutiny. If my amendment to the Act is carried it will mean that it will be absolutely mandatory to refer to the Public Works Committee any works costing more than $2m. Any works costing between Sim and $2m must go to Cabinet and Cabinet can decide to have further investigations made or indeed to refer the works to the Public Works Committee. Works costing less than $lm are considered by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and, there again, either one of those Ministers could call in - and undoubtedly would call in - the Minister representing the environment portfolio which has been set up or the Minister representing the urban development portfolio which has been set up. 
So although technically, if a small amount of money is involved, it will be a matter for the Minister for Works and the Treasurer, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  are increasingly being brought into these matters. So with all works there is scrutiny of different kinds. The Senate may say that that is not sufficient. In addition, any work can be referred to the Public Works Committee by a motion moved in either House of the Parliament. So at all stages all of these works are completely within the control of the Parliament, the Cabinet or the departments themselves. 
There is some urgency or some imminence about this matter because the present situation continued throughout the last parliamentary recess. Technically, under the present 
Act we should be referring to the Committee all work of a value of less than $2m. I do not know what has happened, but I would think that there would be a tendency not to refer such work to the Committee in anticipation of this Bill being passed. I think that this matter should be attended to.  Senator Byrne  raised questions concerning statutory bodies and I think that  Senator Prowse  made the same sorts of points regarding normal bodies. The House of Representatives is about to invite the Senate to enter into a joint committee for the following purposes: to inquire into, report on and make recommendations for - 
a balanced system of committees for the Parliament; 
the integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament; and 
arrangements for committee meetings which will best suit the convenience of Senators and Members 
I can see  Senator Cotton  laughing. Of course, what we are doing now is setting up a committee to look at committees and, quite frankly, I think that it is nearly time we did so. I think that these questions of how the Public Works Committee should be expanded or in what way we should look at the workings of the Committee could well be considered by this proposed joint committee.  Senator Prowse  could be right when he says that we might have to move outside the system under which we have worked for so long. The work connected with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is a little easier because the Committee has counsel to advise it. Obviously there would not be counsel to advise the Public Works Committee, but  Senator Prowse  has suggested that similar advice could be given to the Public Works Committee by somebody engaged in the building industry. As I say, I went through all the agonising in trying to look at this matter. But we have to do something fairly quickly in order to allow the Public Works Committee to continue with its work. 
The next and last thing I want to say is that I am not inflexible about this matter. Many of the points which honourable senators have raised today had already been brought to my attention and I had thought about some of them myself.I thank those people who have given us new ideas on this matter. What I ask at this time is for the Senate to let this Bill go through so that we can get the Public Works Committee into the position of being able to do its work. The worry that I have with this Committee, as with all committees, is that we do not want to get bad work because I think that the only thing worse than having no committee is to get bad work from a committee. This is why I am greatly in favour of the proposition that has come from the House of Representatives. 
I assure the Senate that I am not inflexible on this matter. If we could work out some better system between us I would have no hesitation at all in introducing amendments at any time when I was convinced that it ought to be done. We will not be moving into the Committee stages of this Bill because we have made other arrangemnts for tonight. This will give the parties a chance to look at the matter. I suggest that we should let this Bill go through, get before the joint committee when it is established and put to the committee our ideas on committees, and on the Public Works Committee in particular. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 

 - -Senator Wright asks me whether he is right. That is his name. I have often thought that it was a misnomer. 1 do not know whether those are the figures. I would have to check them to find out whether they were correct. 
The honourable senator asked me whether they were right. 
 Senator Kane  asks me what my attitude is. I deplore the fact that any person representing another country was treated, as 1 understand from the Press, as the representative of South Vietnam was treated. This has not been brought officially to the notice of the Department, but I read it in the Press his morning. I say quite unequivocally that I do not like that sort of treatment at all and I certainly would not like that sort of treatment to be handed out to one of our people in another country. Demonstrations, of course, are now a way of life whether we agree with them or not; they have become pretty commonly known. So that is the answer to the question. I do deplore such action and I would not like our people to be treated in the same way. It has not at the moment been raised on an official level. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will make amendments to the Payroll Tax Assessment Act corresponding with those proposed in relation to gold producers in the Export Incentive Grants Bill which I have just introduced. The export incentive grants scheme is the successor to the pay-roll tax rebate scheme adopted when pay-roll tax was transferred to the states. The amendments will apply in respect of the financial years 1968-69 to 1970-71 and will enable the actual producers of gold to receive export certificates under the pay-roll tax rebate scheme as suppliers of components where, after having been sold by a prescribed company for industrial use in Australia, gold has been fabricated into goods and exported. The memorandum explaining the provisions of the Export Incentive Grants Bill also contains explanations of the provisions of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
South Vietnam is one of the 4 Indo-Chinese states to which we are still able to send aid. Our aid has not stopped flowing into South Vietnam. I have stated in the Senate our general approach to this matter. The Government said some time ago that it stood ready to give generous aid to the Indo-Chinese states. Of course, it is obvious that we cannot give post war aid where there is no.t a post war situation. As I said in my answer to a similar question the other day, aid is flowing to South Vietnam and I think that aid will be flowing to North Vietnam before the end of this month. Aid is also flowing to other places. However, as I have pointed out, this is not yet post war aid. 
It is true that peace is not going as well as it might be, but I think there has been much improvement over the last couple of months. The only thing that influences us is the question of logistics. If a place is still fighting we cannot get aid into it, but it is our intention to try to assist these 4 countries to get back on their feet as quickly as possible. 
I agree that an efficient system of pairs is essential to the running of Parliament. The honourable senator might remember that the Prime Minister when answering a question in another place said - and this was at a time when this matter was pretty heated and a lot of things were said and questions were asked by both sides which probably would have been better left unsaid and not asked - that of course pairs should be adhered to in both places. The incident to which the honourable senator refers took place 31 to 4 months ago. I said at that time that this was an emotional thing that had blown up; that the Government Whip was faced with a difficult situation because of the unprecedented fact that he has to handle 4 different groups of people. This has never happened to a Government Whip before. I think that the situation has improved remarkably and the Senate is now running very much better than it ran at that time. I said then that I regretted what had happened then and what had happened leading up to that incident. I still regret the incident. I do not think that I have anything more to add to that. I agree with the last part of  Senator Withers'  remarks that an efficient system of pairs should operate. It is now 4 months since that incident and I hope that the emotions that were expressed then have long passed. 
Regrettably,  Senator Hannan  begins on a wrong premise again. He talks about a preoccupation with African affairs. It is not a preoccupation with African affairs. Very obviously there are other areas which are much more important and in respect of which we will need to have much more daily dealings than the African situation. I have explained previously that I went to Africa to make the first such tour in the history of the Commonwealth Government. I did it to explain our new attitudes - the fact that we were going to throw racism off our shoulders at long last - and to make contact with these people before they met  Mr Whitlam  at Ottawa. That does not mean a preoccupation. In fact, it is quite the opposite to preoccupation; it is overcoming the problem of ignoring these people, which the previous Government did. 
I am aware that Senegal has recognised the Provisional Revolutionary Government and that South Vietnam has taken the action of asking Senegal to withdraw diplomatic recognition.  Senator Hannan  is again quite wrong when he says that the Whitlam Government is waiting for the Vietcong to seize one town and then it will recognise the Vietcong. There is no atom of truth in that at all. 
 I answered that question in accordance with the way that I saw the situation because I had answered it in  Senator Murphy's  absence some time ago. If it is desired to discuss this matter I think the 2 leaders should get together on it. Honourable senators will remember that at the time I answered the original question I was acting on  Senator Murphy's  behalf and had carriage of the matter. I repeated today what I said on that occasion and I repeated what the Prime Minister had said. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendments to the export incentive grants legislation to remove some disabilities affecting statutory marketing authorities. Under the present law a marketing authority which acquires ownership of goods it exports or sells for export may, within 60 days of coming into existence, make an election which gives it the right to have these goods taken into account for the purpose of ascertaining its export grant. These requirements have been judged to be unnecessarily restrictive. In practice they can mean that exports made by the authorities on behalf of suppliers are not reflected in export grants. The proposed amendments will enable an election to be made by an authority whether or not it acquires ownership of the goods it exports and will also remove the 60-day limit for making an election. An election made after the commencement of the amending Act may, at the option of the authority, apply from as early as the commencement of the 1971-72 grant year. These amendments will also permit a marketing authority, by the issue of export certificates, to pass part or all of its grant entitlement for the 1971-72 year or a subsequent grant year to licensees associated with it in the marketing of Australian produced goods. 
Other provisions of the Bill will permit wider participation by gold producers in the export incentives scheme. It will enable the Gold Producers' Association to pass on to gold producers the benefit of export certificates received by the Association as a supplier of gold fabricated into goods for export. These provisions will apply as from the 1971-72 financial year. Apart from the amendments relating to marketing boards and gold producers, the Bill does no more than continue the present export incentive scheme for another year. What will happen after 30 June 1974 has yet to be decided. So it cannot yet be said whether the present scheme or some other scheme will operate or even no scheme. That will be decided later, in the light of a number of relevant factors. In the event that there were no schemes, consideration might be given to the need for hardship relief, but if that proved to be the situation such relief would not, of course, provide under a different name concessions as generous as the present incentives. These questions about the position after 30 June 1974 will be examined and the decision announced later. A memorandum providing detailed explanations of the provisions of the Bill is being made available to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned 
As  Senator Wright  has said, this matter was debated at length yesterday, but I wish to deal with what  Senator Byrne  said last night. Nobody can say with any precision whether the amount of $1.5m suggested by  Senator Wright,  or the amount of $2m suggested by me, is right. We all know why the mandatory limit is being increased. It is being increased to make the Public Works Committee a practical Committee a Committee able to handle the number of projects which come before it for examination. It is for that reason and for no other reason that the mandatory limit is being increased. There is no suggestion that the Government does not want certain projects examined. Any government would be silly if it acted in that way. The Public Works Committee is the Government's own protector. 
As I pointed out last night, because projects are not referred mandatorily to the Committee for examination that does not necessarily mean that they are not being watched. Such projects can be referred to the Committee for examination by a resolution of either House of the Parliament. Projects involving an expenditure of between$1m and $2m are always looked at by the Cabinet. Projects involving an expenditure under that amount may be referred to the attention of Cabinet by either the Minister for Works or the Treasurer. Cabinet can also refer a project to the Public Works Committee for examination. 
So it is not as though the field is being completely vacated in this respect. I suggest that the mandatory limit of $2m be accepted and that the amount be kept under review. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wright's  amendment) be left out. 
I thank honourable senators for the suggestions they have made arising out of the debate which took place both last night and today. Some of the suggestions have been good, and I think  Senator Jessop  has put forward some good thoughts. I think the general feeling is that in some way we must have some supervision over projects being carried out by statutory bodies.  Senator Poyser  said many of the things which I intended to say. I do not know whether he looked at my notes.  Senator Jessop  pointed to the situation with regard to the National Capital Development Commission and he said that 12 projects are to be referred to the Committee. My figure is something like 25. But it is not very important whether it is 12 or 25. On top of those must be added works carried out for other bodies such as the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, which I had not taken into my calculations but which  Senator Wright  mentioned to me, the Australian National University, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and so on. 
It is obvious that the present system could not carry this workload. It may be that the present system is coming to an end. I do not know. We will have to see how the Committee operates under the new provisions we have just carried. The possibility of having 2 committees was a proposal which was looked at. Honourable senators will recall that in my second reading speech I said that the Public Works Committee itself rejected this proposal because it was afraid that the 2 committees would have different sets of criteria. Apart from that,  Senator Poyser  made the point that because of the proliferation of committees it would be difficult to find the extra bodies to man the 2 or 3 committees, even if the problem of uniformity were overcome. If the amendment under discussion is carried -  Senator Jessop  grasped this point very well - we will create a new system which will defeat the effect of the $2m limit and the whole system would just break down. There would just be no means of dealing with the situation. 
Both  Senator Byrne  and  Senator Jessop  suggested that we should have some sampling system.  Senator Byrne's  suggestion was that the Committee look at one, two or three projects during the year.  Senator Jessop's  thought was that we may extend that section of the Act which provides for either House of the Parliament to refer matters to the Committee. That is the situation applying now, but the suggestion is that the Act be extended to include statutory bodies as well as nonstatutory bodies. I think that suggestion is in line with that made by  Senator Byrne,  which also involved investigating a sample of projects. If this suggestion is adopted, of course all the other relevant Acts will have to be amended, and I do not know when that could be done. I do not think there is any doubt that more thought will have to be given to this matter. As I said last night, as the Minister in charge of these matters I am not inflexible in my approach to them. I think the debate we have had on this matter has brought forward many good suggestions and action we have taken has been brought about by the effluxion of time. 

 Senator Prowse mentioned last night that the number of references made to the Committee increased from 3 to nearly 50, and the number would have reached 70 if we had not changed the system. That shows the changing complexion of the whole situation. I ask- the Senate - I do not like using the word 'reject' but it is the only one I can think of - to reject  Senator Wright's  amendment because I do not think we have heard the last of this matter. As I say, I am flexible in my attitude towards it. I do not think there is any doubt that my Department will have to look at how things work out with the S2m limit. I know that I should not anticipate things, but as I mentioned last night the House of Representatives is discussing a proposition that we cooperate with it in looking at the whole committee system, which involves the rationalisation of manpower, where the committees should sit, the sort of matters they should inquire into, and so on. This proposition has not yet passed through this House, but I hope that it will be. I do not think any honourable senator would suggest that there should not be a rationalisation of manpower or that we should not have a look at the committee system, because the system has been operating for only a brief period and we know how it is interfering with the running of this Parliament. Last year I was asked to use my endeavours to get my Party to agree to allow the Public Works Committee to sit while the Parliament was sitting - something that prima facie I am against. I think it can be done on very urgent occasions, but I do not like the idea. All sorts of dangers can arise out of it. After all, the Senate is the important place where final decisions have to be made. 
I hope that when the proposal for setting up this joint committee comes before the Senate it will be supported by the Senate. If it is, the joint committee will be set up and that will be the time to put forward submissions on this matter concerning the Public Works Committee. But if the joint committee is not set up, then certainly I will ask my Department to have a look at this matter and to present some sort of a paper so that we can see how this new arrangement will work in the next few months. We will be able to talk to the Public Works Committee about the matter. I ask that this amendment to the Public Works Committee Act be allowed to operate so that in the new year we may be able to have a further look at mis matter. 
I will be brief. Firstly, I hate to disillusion  Senator Wright,  but it was not his eloquence that drove the legal advisers away. There were no legal advisers here. 
Yes. The gentleman whom I have here was selected for his common sense and ability, not because he has a law degree. The only other thing is that  Senator Wright  was very critical of the way in which the extensions to Parliament House were handled. He said that these principles were all wrong. But he himself was a Minister, and this went on for 23 years. So I am glad that the Labor Government has done at least one thing - it has got  Senator Wright  suddenly up for some principles after 23 years. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clause  (Senator Wright's  amendment) be inserted in the Bill. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not proposed to make a general statement to Parliament on the matters raised by the Honourable  Senator, but  the following information is provided in respect of each of the points raised by him: 1. (a) (b) (c) and (d): Although the Australian Government deplores recent events in Uganda, the internal affairs of that country are not the direct concern of the Australian Government, especially as no Australian citizens have been involved. 
Southern Rhodesia is a British colony whose rebel regime has been the subject of mandatory sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council. Australia has therefore denied the regime any form of recognition or assistance and has been scrupulous in observing its sanctions obligations. Australia supports the British Government's Five Principles for a settlement of the Rhodesian problem, especially the Fifth Principle, namely that the British Government would need to be satisfied that any basis proposed for independence was acceptable to the people of Rhodesia as a whole. Meanwhile, the British Government remains constitutionally responsible for all the people of Rhodesia. The Government deplores, of course, the illegal regime's discriminatory policies against the Asian minority as much as it deplores the exercise of such policies against the African majority. Australia considers that the Portuguese territories in Africa are de facto colonies whose aspirations for independence on the basis of majority rule by the indigenous people should be recognised. The Government is not aware of any recent allegations of the persecution of minorities in Mozambique. If the allusion is to the recent allegations of massacres by Portuguese forces, the Government has no evidence either to prove or disprove the specific allegations that have been made. The Government believes, however, that if Portugal wishes to clear itself of these charges, it should heed the call of the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization to allow competent United Nations authorities to undertake an impartial on-the-spot investigation. This call was supported by Australia. 
The Ugandan question has not been raised at the United Nations and Australia does not intend to take any initiatives in that regard. On the other hand, the questions of Rhodesia and the Portuguese African territories have been raised and are the subject of intense concern at the United Nations where Australia has enunciated the policies described in (2 ) above. 
King Island Shipping Service: 'Maluka' 

 Senator Cavanagh on 30 May 1973,  Senator Wright  asked the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he is able to confirm that arising out of arrangements between the Premier of Tasmania and the Minister for Transport last Thursday the ship to which the Federal Government agreed to provide assistance for King Island services was the 'Maluka'. Has the Minister any information on the suitability of that ship? 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Transport met the Premier of Tasmania on 24 May to discuss the King Island problem. 
The Premier proposed the State should purchase a particular Australian vessel and operate it in the King Island service until a suitable replacement was built. During the meeting the Premier also mentioned that the State might charter 'U.1./.' for a short period to assist in relieving the backlog of cargo on the Island, but the State did not seek financial assistance for chartering this vessel. 
I understand the Tasmanian Transport Commission inspected 'Maluka' but did not proceed with the proposal to charter this vessel. 
King Island Shipping Service: 'Blythe Star' 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The surplus in the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1967 is made up as set out hereunder. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government does not presume to speak for the Government of China on this matter. 
-At the moment the Australian Government has not recognised and does not intend to recognise the new Government. Our ambassador is returning to Australia so that discussions can take place. 
-I will get the reply for the honourable senator from the Treasurer. 
-On 28 August 1973,  Senator Guilfoyle  asked me a question without notice concerning Lending Organisations. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Treasury and Reserve Bank are currently undertaking a detailed study of the various aspects of the regulation of nonbank financial intermediaries. When that examination is completed the Government will decide what measures are desirable in the interests of the community. It is hoped that, at an appropriate time, consultations can take place with the relevant State authorities regarding permanent building societies and other financial institutions covered by State legislation that would come within Australian Government legislation. 
French Nuclear Tests: Reports on Fall-out (Question No. 220) 
-On 28 August 1973,  Senator Greenwood  asked the following question, without notice: 
Why has the Minister for the Capital Territory departed from the practice of the previous Government and declined to submit all proposed Ordinances to the Advisory Council of the A.C.T. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The question has no foundation in fact. Since January 1973 I have submitted 19 Ordinances to Council in draft. Other Ministers involved in the administration of Canberra also follow a similar course. 
-On 22 August 1973,  Senator Withers  asked the following question, without notice: 
Why are government rents rising while rental for privately owned houses must remain static. Is this another example of the Government's double standards. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Government house rentals in the A.C.T. have been below an economic level for many years, which meant that housing operations were being conducted at a loss met by Australian taxpayers. 
The proposed increase is intended to do no more than bring rentals of Government houses to an economic level. Even at the increased level they will still be low by comparison with rentals charged for privately owned accommodation in the A.C.T. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council of November 1 972 relating to national emission standards for air pollutants is being considered by the Emission Standards Sub-Committee of the Australian Environment Council. 
Further action with respect to the adoption of these standards by legislation will depend on the advice given to the Government by the Australian Environment Council. Investigations are being conducted into air quality factors in and around Canberra. 
-On 29 August 1973,  Senator Greenwood  asked the following question, without notice: 
Is it a fact that the increases in the price of petrol, necessitated by the Government's budget proposals, have been approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal as able to be included in the petrol retailer's price of petrol throughout Australia. Is it not also a fact that the fixation of the price at which petrol may be sold in the Australian Capital Territory excludes the increase necessitated by the budget proposals. If so what is the reason for this discrimination. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Prices Justification Tribunal authorised the oil companies to pass on increases in excise, however, this in no way precludes the Tribunal from examining at any time in accordance with Section 16 of the Prices Justification Act 1973, the price and pricing structure of petrol. In the Australian Capital Territory the prices of petrol have been fixed at pre-budget levels. It is for the oil companies now to justify any higher prices they would otherwise charge. 
-As far as I know, no instructions have been given. The whole question of political asylum is a very delicate one in circumstances such as these. It arises in different parts of the world. I can check out the situation for  Senator Mulvihill.  As far as I know, we have not given any specific instructions about it. 
-I recall that I answered a similar question some three or four months ago and, if I remember the answer then, it was no, the Victorian Government had not taken up its options. I do not know what the position is now. Having said that, I will refer to the Treasurer the rest of the question put to me by  Senator Brown. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
With certain exceptions that are not relevant to the honourable senator's question, the secrecy provisions of the Export Incentive Grants An 1971 prevent the Commissioner of Taxation from communicating to any person information with respect to the affairs of any other person (including a company) that is disclosed under that Act. Similar provisions are included in the legislation relating to pay-roll tax rebates which the grants replaced. 
As regards statistics of export incentive grants, no export grants were paid during the financial year 1971-72. Payments under the grants scheme, which applied first to 1971-72 exports did not commence until after 30 June 1972. Grants paid in the 1972-73 financial year amounted to $40,360,000 and refunds of pay-roll tax rebates during this period amounted to $17,981,000. In addition, certain amounts of grants and rebates allowed were applied to tax; the figures for the 1972-73 financial year were $647,000 in respect of export grants and $36 1 ,000 in respect of pay-roll tax rebates. 
Statistics of export incentive grants classified by commodity group are not yet available, but the latest statistics of pay-roll tax rebates, tabulated by reference to 1970-71 exports which show rebate allowed from current year entitlement to 31 December 1 972, are set out below: 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to 1. 
-That must have been the last time that Don and a $5 note got together. It is so long since I saw a $5 note that I am unable to comment on that matter, but certainly I shall pass the question on to the Treasurer. 
I did not give an answer last week because I was not here last week. I have not read  Dr Sakharov's  letter. I will do so in the context of the question asked by  Senator Kane  and give him any information I obtain. 
-The Prime Minister's announcement followed an inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence last year under the chairmanship of the present Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories,  Mr Morrison,  into the whole subject of aid. I am sure honourable senators will recall the report of the Committee being tabled in the Senate. I think I tabled it earlier this year. The matters raised by the honourable senator in his question will be the subject of the appropriate Bill. We have not yet considered the details of it. There will be a broad advisory body which will encompass the things to which  Senator Davidson  referred. I cannot give the honourable senator the names of the people who will be on it. 
Aid has come to be a matter of vital importance now. In spite of the aid projects that are taking place around the world we are not achieving- when I say 'we' I mean the donor countries- what we set out to do. There is still a tremendous amount of poverty in the world. In some cases the gap between the poor and the rich is getting greater. This adds up to the fact that one has to be tremendously efficient in the provision of aid. There cannot be any waste in the provision of aid by international bodies. I will be attending a meeting of one of the international bodies shortly. They are fining down what they regard as being aid. An investment in another country will not necessarily be counted as being an aid project. Arising out of international movements in this report the Government decided to make its aid available on a more efficient basis. It will appoint somebody who will be solely responsible to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the control of aid rather than it being just a part of the Department of Foreign Affairs as it has been in the past. 
I am afraid that the hope expressed by  Senator Greenwood  in his last sentence will not be fulfilled. He is generally an enthusiastic  speaker.  Today, he seemed most unenthusiastic. Obviously, he did not have his heart in it in speaking to the brief that was prepared for him. Even so, he went right back to the old conservative attitude that now is not the time to improve the lot of working people. He says particularly that it is the wrong time to give increased annual leave and maternity leave, even though the latter was the subject of a decision of an International Labour Organisation convention. He says that we should ignore that decision and do as his Government did for years, namely, make pious resolutions at Geneva and then ignore them in Australia. That was one of the resolutions that was ignored. 
I can remember many years ago as a very young man reading articles on the very matters that he has mentioned. Workers compensation was being introduced in Australia, so there was a concerted effort by employers to sack their employees. They said they could not afford to keep them on and pay their insurance to cover them for workers compensation. By law they were required to do this. The employers told the employees: 'If you have an accident we are liable. Therefore, you have to leave '. 
A man with great industrial experience reminds me that the same thing happened when holiday pay and annual leave were introduced. Yet, even the former Liberal-Country Party Government with its tremendous hatred of the trade union movement and with its tremendous arrogant contempt for anybody who works with his hands was not game during the 23 years it was in power to take these things away from the people who, underneath, it hates so much. This was revealed to some extent by  Senator Greenwood  this afternoon. Of course, the situation in regard to this matter is quite obvious. Only last week, we had  Senator Cotton  move for the debate of the following matter of urgency: 
The reduction in the consumer's purchasing power, the increased cost to home buyers, the damage to export industries and local manufacturers, together with the consequence of unemployment in affected industries, without any significant impact on Australia's inflationary problems, of the Government 's dollar revaluation and action to increase interest rates. 
That was last week. The very next debate in the Senate will be on the question of whether we ask the Australian people to put the tools to fight inflation in the hands of a Federal Governmentany federal government. This will apply now and for evermore because it will be written into the Constitution that this Federal Government will have power to grapple with inflation and the inflow of money to the people of Australia. It will give the power to divide up the cake in some more equal way, a division which was severely maladjusted by deliberate action of the Liberal.Counrty Party governments over the years. This debate, of course, is a time waster because the Opposition does not want to have to face up to this. The Opposition has been criticising the Government because of inflation, but when it was in government for 23 years it did nothing about inflation except, as  Senator Greenwood  pointed out this afternoon, on the eve of an election in 1972 when it decided to pour money into the economy because the economy needed a boost. It was only coincidental that the hot breath of the Australian people was on its neck and it was facing an election in a few months time. After 23 years the then Government suddenly decided that it had to pour money into the Australian economy. There is an atmosphere of piety here this afternoon; one can almost smell the incense burning. The great managers sitting opposite were in government for 23 years. There was no inflation in their time! None at all! No, it never arose! What sort of humbug is the Opposition talking? 
The proposition presented by  Senator Greenwood  is time-wasting. That is what this Opposition has been doing ever since we came to office. Opposition members have said piously that they do not want to hold up legislation: they want to face up to the issues. But what do we have now when we are waiting to debate this great issue this afternoon? We have a repetition of last week's debate and a preview of the debate that we will have when this present matter is disposed of in a short time. Honourable senators opposite have been griping about inflation. 
The honourable senator for Victoria is talking about stomach. He is the man who has been dumped by the Liberal Party. He does not have the courage to stand on his own 2 feet; yet he talks about stomach. He was challenged before the Australian people and he squibbed it. In Western Australia when the Liberals wiped off the Country Party the Country Party came out as a team and won. It did not take from the Liberal Party what the honourable senator is taking in such a supine way. He introduced this with his talk about courage. I did not introduce this. 
-Do not start talking about my courage. That is what your Party did in Western Australia and it won. Do not talk about courage and that sort of thing. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Order! I think we should return to the subject. 
-The Liberal-Country Party Opposition talks about what it would do about inflation; but what will it do when it gets the opportunity to do something about the constitutional situation? It will turn and walk away from the situation and say: 'No, we will not have anything to do with that idea'. As I said before, the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government did one thing in 23 years- it poured some money into the economy on the eve of an election. 
There were some contradictions in the attitude expressed by my friend  Senator Greenwood  today. He started his speech by saying that this Government had done nothing about these things, but he finished it by criticising all the things that we have done. He cannot have it both ways. It would have been a far more honest approach if his script writer had put the last part first and started by criticising what we have done. I agree that this is a perfectly normal debating technique. Are the things that we have done in grappling with inflation the best things that we could have done? If we have a debate along those lines we will help the Parliament, help the Government's advisers and help the Government in approaching the question of inflation. 
Let us be perfectly honest and frank about the question of inflation. Inflation is a problem throughout the world. It has been a problem for the last 25 years in every country except those in which there is a tight dictatorship and complete control over trade unions, prices and the very lives of the people. No economist has come to the aid of the world and said: 'Here is an economic theory, a form of economics, which can control inflation'. Towards the end of the depression there were economists who said: 'If this sort of thing happens again certain things can be done '. It seemed that we were able to use the advice of those economists and to avoid a repetition of the deep depression of the early 1930s. But today the situation is quite the reverse and no friendly economist has come along to tell us what to do about it. 
This Government has recognised that inflation is hitting Australia just as it hits every other country. We make no denial of that. We dc not try to run away from it, as the previous Government did. We recognise that this is a complex problem. It is not merely a matter of sitting down and writing out a few theories on economics, passing a few laws and  saying: 'Go on,  get about your business. Do that and everything will be all right.' We are dealing with human nature. We are dealing with people who will transfer funds. As a personal observation only, I see the great danger- I do not see it striking first in Australiathat with the accumulation of funds and the loss of faith in accumulating money in banks we will start  to get  hedging against inflation and a moving into securities such as land and that sort of thing. If that runs away and people start to lose faith in paper money then there can be a sort of secondary run of inflation which will be tremendously damaging throughout the world. 
I do not say that we are creating it. I am talking about a world situation. No sane government or person would want to create that situation. The previous Government created a situation which was very much worse than that created by anybody else. In 1973 we are facing up to what was created in the early 1970s. From 2 December we could not have created the situation which we have today. If  Senator Wright  in his rare honest moments - 
-Do not speak when I am speaking. It is rude.  Senator Wright  in his rare honest moments would know perfectly well that what we face today was created over the last few years. The effect of the money which the previous Government poured into the economy to try to win the election is what this Government is facing up to at this very moment. The previous Government did not do that with any degree of honesty or to keep inflation down. It was done as a straight out bribe to the Australian people. Honourable senators opposite know that perfectly well. In their honest moments they do not even try to deny it. 
As I say, the solution is not simple. We admit this frankly. It is not something that is confined to Australia. It is something which has to be fought on all fronts. In relation to everything we have done there has been no analysis by the Opposition. There has been straight out carping criticism. An exchange rate is one of the most important factors in facing up to inflation. What did we do in relation to that? When we assumed office the exchange rate was clearly undervalued. When we acted in relation to the currency of those days we did so on the advice which was lying on the desks vacated by the members of the former Government. They refused to act on that advice. Do honourable senators opposite think that in the first week in January, after we had been in power for a month, that we found a magic formula so that we could come forward and revalue the Australian dollar? Of course we did not. We picked up the advice which the previous Government had received. That Government rattled itself to pieces. It knew clearly not only in the field of finance but also in all other areas of government that things were staring it in the face. This had been pointed out by the public servants and other advisers. But the then Government did not go ahead and do these things. That was one of the reasons- and this is a deprecation of ourselves- that we were able to act so quickly. The advice was there, lying on the unswept desks when we took over. 
In that situation we moved in December with a revaluation of 7 per cent of the Australian dollar with a significant tightening of controls over capital inflow. As I say, this was advice which we received in the first 3 or 4 weeks of our administration. It was clearly available to the previous Government. Did we receive an analysis of the situation? No. We got cries of horror at what was going to happen to the Australian economy. The fact is that these measures worked. There was a very successful stemming of the large inflow of capital and the second half of 1972-73 actually saw an outflow of private capital from Australia. This was the thing which was bedevilling us in that region of inflation at that time. Our action also had a further important anti-inflationary impact because it led to a substantial reduction in import prices. Between the December quarter of 1972 and the June quarter of 1973 import prices fell by 5 per cent. The further appreciation of the Australian dollar in September will also have important anti-inflationary effects in helping to keep down the growth in the money supply and further reduce the price of imports. 
Another important factor which can contribute to an inflationary situation is lack of competition in industry. This enables firms to take advantage of shortages by unjustified price increases. In this area we acted decisively to rectify the situation. In July we made an across the board reduction of 25 per cent in tariffs. This is one of the boldest moves ever made by an Australian government. 
It was not the most stupid at all, if the honourable senator will sit down and examine the position. Of course if we had increased tariffs by 25 per cent that would have been said to be the most stupid thing and if we had left tariffs where they were that would have been said to be the most stupid. While honourable senators sit as an Opposition and carp and criticise without making an analysis of what we are doing then they are guilty of dereliction of their duty. Our action means that the flow of goods into Australia will be increased. It will bring about a direct reduction in import prices. It will increase the degree of competition in the economy and it will have a salutary effect on those who have been exploiting the public. How can honourable senators opposite deny this? It stands clear. The previous Government had this advice but it did not have the courage to adopt it. 
Of course these things must have an impact on people who have built up business interests in the field of trade and commerce. We recognise that. It is quite obvious. We have said that we stand by that decision with an ambitious program of assistance which will ensure that people, particularly employees, who may be adversely affected by the tariff reduction will not suffer hardship. One of the worries which I had when I voted for that measure in Cabinet was that there would be a tremendous degree of unemployment. The fact is that I was wrong. The situation has not been nearly as severe as I thought it would be at that time. The money supply which rose by 26 per cent in 1972-73 obviously has an inflationary effect. Of course this is not due to a sudden happening on 2 December. It had been building up under the previous Government. The situation was aggravated by the last minute desperate measures of the Government in pouring money into the economy to try to build up support for its election campaign. As I say, the increase is traceable to 1972. 
Liquidity still remains excessively high. This is due largely to the unrestrained increase in 1972. This is quite obvious by examining any set of economic figures which one wants to look at. There is speculation in this. This is a personal view. Earlier  Senator Wright  interjected and asked whether we were not encouraging it. We are not encouraging it. The whole system throughout the world is encouraging it because of inflationary pressures and people are starting to move into investment in land and property. They build up and borrow and turn money over as quickly as they possibly can. There is still a need to soak up this liquidity. The objective is not to have a credit squeeze but we have to end excessive liquidity. This is the thing with which we are battling. Our action on 9 September was designed to achieve this by making government securities much more attractive. No one was investing in Government securities and people were running to the private market. Of course if money is left in the private market the Government does not have any control over it. If the money is in Government bonds the Government has control of it. 
It does not matter how one may argue; the effects of our action are anti-inflationary. They may not be anti-inflationary to brilliant people like  Senator Wright  and our friend from Victoria,  Senator Webster.  Our actions may not be as brillliant as those which honourable senators opposite could take. When in government they had 23 years in which to take such action. But I did not see that happen. Maybe the Opposition has learnt in the last 6 months. If it has, we are prepared to listen to it. We do not think that we have all the answers to this situation but at least we are prepared to tackle it and to try to do something about it, something that honourable senators opposite never did. We have given the people an opportunity to invest in government bonds. This will create the opportunity for more savings and reduce the rush to spend. After the present imbalance between earnings on financial assets, such as government securities and other assets, is dispelled excessive liquidity will be drained off. If this succeeds, possibly we will be able to take the edge off such things as high land prices and property booms. If we can do that, that will be the turning point. 
There has been a broad attack on inflation by this Government. The Opposition has criticised the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal, but it never did anything about setting up such procedures itself. If the Opposition would like to analyse the procedures and point out the weaknesses we would be happy to look at the situation. But the most carping criticism of the Opposition is this: 'Ah, that will not work'.  Senator Greenwood  was hoist by his own petard. First of all he said that we had done nothing and he finished his speech by criticising the things that we had done. He criticised the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices which was set up to inquire into and report on movements in prices of goods and services and complaints arising from prices charged by private industry and the public sector. Apparently that too was a wrong move. We must not even identify a movement in prices, according to our great prophets who sit opposite. We must not even look at this problem. We must not even say: 'Here is the situation that ought to be challenged'. This was one of the problems when we took over. We could not find out how much overseas investment there was in Australia. We could not identify where the overseas investment in Australia was located. We could not identify any of these things because for 23 years the previous Government did not give a damn. As long as the big boys could get bigger and as long as it could grind the trade union movement down a little further, that was all it cared about. The Prices Justification Tribunal took a little time to get under way. Of course, it would take a little time to start something which is unique in Australian political history. But it finally got under way on 1 August. 
As I say, we have had a look at the constitutional position in relation to prices. What is the reaction of the previous Government to that? Its reaction is: 'No, no, a thousand times no. Let us be critical about it. Let us say that the Government is doing nothing about prices. Let us say that it does not give a damn about people'. I thought there was one delightful little touch in  Senator Greenwood  's speech. He said that public servants are pace setters. That accusation has been made for 20 years, and every time it was investigated during the term of the previous Government it was proved to be wrong. Apparently in the last 6 months it has suddenly proved to be right. The Opposition says that wages are being increased far too quickly. It says that the Public Service should not be getting their increases. But  Senator Greenwood  is tremendously worried about another section of the community. He is worried about the people who might have to sell their shares. What a terrible thing. They might lose money on their shares. But as far as he is concerned the people on wages can be ground down. But it is a terrific worry that certain people might have to sell their shares. 
-That is what the honourable senator's friend says. It is no good  Senator Wright  saying: 'Oh! ' They are the very words that  Senator Greenwood  used, and  Senator Wright  should have a look at them. One would think that increased prices was a phenomenon of the Labor Government. One would think that there has not been an increase in prices since 1949. A former government used to say: 'Put value back into the pound'. According to the Opposition the value of money has been stable for all of those years. What utter humbug. Why does the Opposition not have a look at what is going on in the world? Why does it not have a look at what the Labor Government is doing? As I say, we welcome criticism from honourable senators opposite in relation to these things, but they should not just say: 'No, no, nothing can be done about it'. The Government is determined to mount an attack on inflation in Australia to the extent that it can be done by an Australian Government. Inflation is a world phenomenon. It extends beyond the shores of Australia. Nevertheless, that does not mean that we should merely turn our back on it, throw our hands up in horror, as the previous Government did, and say that nothing can be done about it. 
-The honourable senator speaks like a machine gun, does he not? I did not hear one word he said. 
-No. So far the honour.rable senator has said nothing worth listening to. I think it is a little late to start now, particularly in a debate on economics. The situation is that the previous Government-Senator Greenwood acknowledged this- did 2 things. First of all when it had to do something about the inflationary spiral it created unemployment because, as I say, traditionally it does not worry about working class people. It thinks that if the working people can be used as economic fodder that is fair enough, and that is what the previous Government did. 
For a period of time it kept quite a pool of unemployed, which  Senator Greenwood  graciously acknowledged. Then it tried to get out of the situation on the eve of an election by pouring money into the economy as fast as it could. If an election had not been pending it would have allowed well over 2 per cent unemployed at that time. We are not prepared to use that weapon as an antiinflationary measure. That is one weapon we will not use because, in the final analysis, the choice is very easily made between people starving and people paying too much for their goods because of inflation. But there is no need for either. Fundamentally we must have a full employment situation in Australia. The next job is to tackle inflation on all fronts. Some of our proposals are on trial; some of them are unique; some of them are being tried for the first time in the political history of Australia. 
I repeat that we welcome criticism from the Opposition if it thinks it will be of any help. If the Opposition was at all honest it would analyse these things. It realises that it did nothing itself over 23 years. It takes the attitude now that it is a good political stunt to oppose what we are trying to write into the Constitution. As the world economy shows and as the history of Australia shows, the Constitution of Australia does not give power to the government of the day, whether it be Labor, Liberal, or whatever, to deal with prices. What we intend to do, in addition to all the things we have done in 9 months- we have shown more initiative in 9 months than the previous Government did in 23 years- is go to the final masters, the final judges in all of these things- the Australian people- to ask them to give us authority to write permanently into the Constitution of Australia the powers for this Government and future governments to deal with the whole question of prices. This will ensure that the Australian cake is cut up in more equitable shares than it was under previous governments and, at the same time, see that unemployment will not be the weapon used by governments in the future. Until the Opposition can adopt an honest approach to this matter it should stop the time wasting tactics which it has employed by moving this motion so that we can get on with the job of controlling prices, which we will do as soon as this matter is disposed of. 
The answer to the last part of the question is yes, very definitely. As we understand the position about 8 Australians are in Chile and none of them is in any danger. 
-The situation regarding our relationship with South Africa is that we move in these matters, as we did in regard to Rhodesia, only on international levels. In the case of Rhodesia, the United Nations decided to apply sanctions, and we did that.  Senator Greenwood  's Government did it, but it left a few loopholes which we have closed. In regard to South Africa, we have said in the United Nations that we would support sanctions against South Africa and that we would apply them provided that everybody else did so. We do not intend to take unilateral action against South Africa. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement relating to future meetings of Senate Estimates Committees. 
I am concerned that so many people are trying to create a great deal of confusion over this matter. As honourable senators know, a decision will be made on it shortly. Everybody will then be made aware of the decision. 
-Australia's Ambassador to Chile has not yet been able to leave Chile because of the restriction imposed on international flights. Our permanent Commissioner in Geneva keeps in constant touch with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. It has not felt it necessary to do anything about Chile at the moment. The mandate of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees really extends to those people who are crossing borders. For instance, it has done a lot of work on the Palestinian refugee problem. No representations have been made to our Embassy in Chile. 
I have seen the reports. I think that it is always to be regretted when we see from outside the sort of things that have happened in Chile. There has been a government upset. I do not know whether these persecutions are taking place or not. Sometimes these things are very hard to prove. We will be in a better position to know the facts when our ambassador returns from Chile- when we can get him out of there. I answered a question the other day regarding the recognition of the Chilean military junta and I repeat that we are withholding recognition at the present time. I understand that at the present time we have made no decision on it. Very obviously, a key person in this matter will be our ambassador when he returns to Australia. 
The main point in the question asked by the honourable senator, as I understand it, is whether I will ascertain whether an inquiry should be held. I am not sure whether this matter falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Services and Property or the Minister for the Capital Territory. But, as I represent both Ministers, I will see that the question is referred to the right quarter. 
Although  Senator Sim  explained the position correctly, it was a little difficult to hear. What we have said is that there is no restriction on people going to Taiwan in their private capacity. What we have said- and this was contained in a letter that I wrote to  Senator Sim  recently- is that people will not use diplomatic passports in going there. I do not know what other countries this restriction applies to, but I will find out. At one time during the previous Government's term of office, 16 countries were banned. On one occasion I was travelling to a country and just before I got to the border I realised that it was already on the passport and I had to have it rubbed out. 
I have no idea whether  Mr Crean  is aware of these things; I have no idea at all. How am I to know what  Mr Crean  is aware of, which is the question that is asked? Do not be plain ridiculous. Get a bit of commonsense back into yourself. So the answer to the question is no, I am not aware of what  Mr Crean  's knowledge is on this matter. I saw an article in which  Mr Bernard  Curran said that in his view the shares were good buys. I imagine that he, as a stockbroker, would be in the business of trying to buy at the bottom of the market if he possibly can and sell at the top. 
I do not know whether  Mr Bernard  Curran is a socialist. I have no idea about that. As I have said, I saw  Mr Bernard  Curran 's statement on this matter. I do not know whether he will reveal who his clients were. I should not imagine that he would if he is a responsible stockbroker and I imagine that he is. 
Just keep quiet, sonny boy.  Senator Greenwood  talks about speculation. I thought the stock exchange was the heart of speculation. I thought it was worse than Randwick races. He wants to know whether this is buying for the Australian Industry Development Corporation. As I understand the way that  Senator Greenwood  and his cohorts wrote the charter of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, it is shrouded in secrecy and I do not think anybody can make it reveal what it is doing. 
-The situation is that we do not consider the Taiwan Government as the Government of China; that is quite clear. Therefore we have broken off official connections with that country. The point is that, having done that, one does not use a diplomatic or an official passport to go there. We do not stop people from going there but they are not to use official or diplomatic passports because those passports are issued for very special reasons. They are not issued to permit visits to a place which is part of a governed country. In the peculiar circumstances which exist on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, as I have said in answer many, many times, we have made our decision and it is flowing on quite smoothly. We regard Peking as the capital of China, not Taipei. These things flow from that. 
I shall be very brief. I thought the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  was right when he said that there is no need for long debate on the motion before the Senate but 1 want to make one or two observations. I think the Senate is getting into a pretty bad state. During question time this morning we heard phrases such as 'it is rumoured' and 'I understand'. That is the way that this debate has proceeded. Speakers have said that somebody told them something. I point out that there is an official way of finding out what is going on. 

 Senator McManus said that a vote could not be taken today on the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill. I would have thought that by now every honourable senator knows how he will vote on the question of putting a referendum to the people relating to the Constitution. Honourable senators could talk for another six or seven weeks and the vote would be exactly the same.  Senator McManus  also said that he had heard stories to the effect that the real reason for this motion is that some people wish to go overseas. It is true that some people are going overseas. I have already told the Democratic Labor Party and other people that I am due to appear, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam),  at a South East Asia Treaty Organisation meeting and at the United Nations in New York next week. There is no secret about these things. I have told some of my friends in the DLP and they have said that they are unable to tell me what might happen. That is OK. I am not complaining about it. However I think it is my duty to make the position clear. Ministers have attended these meetings over the years and I do not believe that we should cease attending. I shall be attending on behalf of this Government and this Parliament. Honourable senators well know that this Parliament has sent other members of Parliament overseas and they have had to be recalled because of this Bill. They have had to be recalled because of this legislation. 
It is to their convenience and the convenience of this Parliament that they go back to the jobs we elected them to do. I do not think that there is anything suspicious or sinister about this. I do not want to leave it on that level. It is in the hands of the Opposition because it has the numbers. If it wants to frustrate us and if it decides that I cannot be in New York next week, that is that. There will be no skin off anybody's nose. But I agree with  Senator Withers  that this is an important subject. Honourable senators should not forget the decisions they are going to make. If they make these decisions we could run very close to the Christmas period. The motion which is coming on tonight has been the subject of many questions and answers. It has already been debated by, I understand, five or six speakers. I do not think honourable senators opposite have a very strong case to say that the motion which is coming on tonight is of such tremendous importance. There is nothing more important than a constitutional decision in Australia and there is a time limit because of the Christmas period. 
No, I was not aware that the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture had said all those things, but if the honourable senator puts the question on the notice paper I will find out what I can for him. 
Yes, I will. Our ambassador is back in Australia but we still have officers in Santiago. We are awaiting reports on the latest developments over the weekend which have been quite disturbing. I saw the report of the death of this poet who, I understand, was a very radical poet. I will find out whatever I possibly can and let  Senator Wheeldon  know the results of my inquiries. 
It seems that  Senator Sim  is trying to make this as difficult as possible. The fact is that this Government reversed the policy of the previous Government in regard to China. The previous Government believed that Taiwan with 15 million people was the governing body of the nearly 700 million Chinese on the mainland. We did not accept that. We took the Embassy which the previous Government had set up iri Taiwan and set it up in Peking. Flowing from that several decisions had to be made. Among them was the decision that there would not be official contacts with Taiwan but that there would be no let or hindrance to private people going to and from Taiwan. Members of Parliament have the privilege of being issued with a special passport called an official passport. It is not a diplomatic passport and it is not an ordinary passport. Honourable senators are asked not to use official passports for travel to Taiwan. Now  Senator Sim  asks what will happen if he misuses the official passport. What sort of a question is that? If he does this, he asks, what will be the decision? What we ask is that people who have either diplomatic or official passports do not use them for travel to Taiwan, just as the previous Government asked holders of such passports not to use them to travel to, firstly 16, later 12 and finally 4 countries, not parts of countries. Therefore, when honourable senators are given the privilege of having an official passport they should, in common decency, do what the Government asks them to do in connection with those passports. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
A general restriction has been placed on travel to Taiwan by Cabinet Ministers and on official travel to Taiwan by members of the Australian Public Service because Australia does not recognise the administration on Taiwan and has severed official contact with it. No Australian may travel to Taiwan on an official or diplomatic passport, but there are no general restrictions on private travel to Taiwan by Australians holding ordinary passports. 
1 understand that a number of countries which recognise the People's Republic of China have placed comparable restrictions on official travel to Taiwan and on the use of official or diplomatic passports for travel to Taiwan. 
Yes. A member of Parliament wishing to visit Taiwan should obtain on ordinary passport for this purpose. 
I lay on the table of the Senate the report of my recent visit to the thirteenth South Pacific Conference. 
-As I understand it, the situation is that they have been arrested on fishing charges. It would be the responsibility of their company to protect them in any court action that should be taken against them. 
On one occasion I became painfully aware of the conditions mentioned in the first part of the honourable senator's question. I will pass the question on to the Treasurer to get some comments. 
My attention has not been drawn to that report, but I will see what I can find out and I will let the honourable senator know. , 
The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
In January this year, the Prime Minister advised the Acting Premier of Victoria that the Australian Government was prepared to make available to Victoria during the period to 30 June 1973 an additional $250,000 under the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme to provide, under working arrangements agreed with the Department of Labour, part-time employment ibr drought-affected farmers in East Gippsland. This money has been expended by the State for the intended purpose. Against the background of the general improvement in the employment situation, the Government decided to reduce the level of the non-metropolitan unemployment grants in the period July-September of this year. I understand that, during this period, portion of the funds allocated to Victoria were used to provide employment to farmers affected by drought in East Gippsland. 
The Government has undertaken to re-assess the situation before the end of this month. 
Gold Mining: Tax on Profits 
-On 28 August 1973,  Senator Withers  addressed a question without notice to me concerning the Government's decision announced in the Budget to withdraw the exemption from income tax of profits from gold mining, commencing with this income year. 
The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I confirm what was said at the time by my colleague, the Special Minister of State, with respect to the Government 's intentions towards the gold mining industry. The decision to withdraw the exemption was taken only after careful consideration and in the light of the changed present circumstances of the industry. Although I find it hard to believe that withdrawal would have the effects alleged in some quarters, I have already indicated that, if problems are created as a result of Government decisions, I am perfectly ready to receive deputations and to look sympathetically at the situation. 
As to the meeting to which the honourable senator refers, both the Prime Minister and I received invitations from the Kalgoorlie Council to be present. Parliamentary commitments, however, made it impracticable for us to attend and our regrets were conveyed to the Council accordingly. 
On 22 August 1973,  Senator Cotton  asked me a question without notice, concerning existing financial guarantees to 
Papua New Guinea. The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No decision has yet been taken on the question of whether or not the Australian Government should continue to guarantee borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Government on the Australian and overseas capital markets after that country becomes independent. 
It would be most unusual for one sovereign government to guarantee the external borrowings of another sovereign government but this matter will be considered when the detailed arrangements for independence are drawn up after Papua New Guinea becomes self-governing later this year. 
As stated by the honourable senator, the Australian Government will continue in the post independence period to honour the guarantees we will have provided for borrowings entered into by the Papua New Guinea Government before that time. The Minister for External Territories recently introduced legislation into Parliament to give effect to the Government's assurances in this respect. At the present time borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Government which have been guaranteed by the Australian Government amount to more than $300m, including principal and interest. The comparable amount at independence will almost certainly be greater than this. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware of the views expressed by the Soviet nuclear scientist Andrei Sakharov. As the AttorneyGeneral said in answer to  Senator Kane's  question without notice on 12 September 1973, the Government has on a number of occasions made its views known both on the question of civil liberties and on fundamental human rights, its own adherence to them and its wish that those rights embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights be extended to peoples elsewhere. The Soviet Government is aware of the Australian Government's position in this matter. 
Australian Council for the Arts: Grants  (Question No. 439) 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949, I present the report of the AuditorGeneral on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
-I shall refer the matter to the Treasurer. 
That is hardly a matter for question time. One would not know where to start and finish. The situation is pretty well known. There have been 2 attempts at a cease fire both of which have at least been somewhat fractured if not completely broken. My own view is that this is not unusual, because if one thinks about it for a few moments one realises that it is not very easy to keep armies in position when they are scattered over wide areas. There is a tendency for certain units to try to get together again and as they try to move across, of course the fighting flares up again. The situation at the Security Council, the presidency of which for this month happens to fall on the shoulders of the Australian representative,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, is that several attempts have been made to achieve a cease fire. The latest information is that yesterday a joint resolution was put down by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America. One must remember also that simultaneously with the Security Council's activities- and  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre has been tireless in trying to get the representatives together, adjourning when nothing could be done, and finally getting them together again yesterday-  Dr Kissinger  has been negotiating directly with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I agree with  Senator McManus  that the problem in the Middle East, particularly the way the war started to blow up with both sides being fed by two of the great powers, had all the earmarks of what could develop into a world war. In spite of that I remain optimistic that the whole world realises the problems associated with the situation. I think this is shown not only by the Security Council but also by the interest the world is taking in the position. I understand that one member of the Democratic Labor Party has on the notice paper a motion on the Middle East war which may be debated this afternoon; and although this is a specific matter, if there is anything on which I can give information at that stage with the permission of the  President  I will certainly do so. 
-Broadly I think the answer is yes, but I will check it out for  Senator Sim.  The situation is that a permanent section of the Department of Foreign Affairs is working continuously on the whole question of JapaneseAustralian relations. As  Senator Sim  is well aware, the meeting that is to take place soon- a group of Ministers will be leaving Australia tonight- will be the second of these meetings at a ministerial level. The Japanese visited Australia last year and Australia is returning that visit this year. There is a tremendous amount of interest in this meeting. I was in Tokyo a week or so ago and I know that a tremendous amout of work is being done on it. I think that broadly the answer to the honourable senator's question is yes, the working committee within the Department is doing the sorts of things that the report recommended. But I will check on this matter and let the honourable senator have any further details. 
-No, I have not seen the statement referred to, but I accept that what  Senator Drake-Brockman  has said about it is correct. I do not think any one of the other bodies referred to has agreed on what he suggests as a cause. I am certainly not going to put myself in a position of trying to forecast what world inflation is going to be. 
-I do not know what is the basis of  Senator Carrick  's figures. Naturally if interest rates are increased some extra expenditure follows. As to the future, since very obviously in an inflationary period which the world is going through at the moment all those things are taken into consideration, the interest rate is one charge which would be under the constant surveillance of the Government. 
Firstly, an amendment is being circulated in my name and I will now move it in order to put the Senate in the picture. I move:. 
Leave out all words after 'That the Senate', insert- 
Noting the resolutions- on. the Middle East .situation - adopted by the Security Council of the United Nations on 22 and 23 October, welcomes and supports the call by the Security Council on the parties to the Middle East conflict to cease firing and terminate all military activity forthwith; 
Expresses the strong hope that all parties to the conflict will fully implement their acceptance of the ceasefire resolution and further expresses its support for the Security Council 's call on the parties concerned to begin immediately the implementation of Security Council Resolution 242 of 1967, and the Council decision that immediate negotiations" should start between the parties, aimed at establishing a just and durable peace in the Middle East; and 
Endorses' the Australian Government's continuing maintenance of a neutral and evenhanded policy in the Middle East and- its continued support for Security Council Resolution 242 as an acceptable basis of a just and lasting settlement in the Middle East. 
I intend also to read resolution 242 because anybody, who reads the record of this debate later may . be a little confused if that resolution does not. appear in the record. I think that it should be underlined as the basis of my amendment and what I believe is the feeling of the majority .of the Australian people. Resolution 242 (1967) which was adopted by the Security 
Council at its 1,382nd meeting on 22 November 1967 states: 
 The Security Council, 
Expressing its continuing concern with the grave situation in the Middle East, 
Emphasizing the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war and the need to work for a just and lasting peace in which every State in the area can live in security, 
Emphasizing further that all Member States in their acceptance of the Charter of the United Nations have undertaken a commitment to act in accordance with Article 2 of the Chaner. 
Affirms that the fulfilment of Chaner principles requires the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East which should include the application of both the following principles: 
Withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict; 
Termination of all claims or states of belligerency and respect for and acknowledgment of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area and their right to live in peace within secure and recognised boundaries free from threats or acts of force; 
Affirms further the necessity 
For guaranteeing freedom of navigation through international waterways in the area; 
For achieving a just settlement of the refugee problem: 
For guaranteeing the territorial inviolability and political independence of every State in the area, through measures including the establishment of demilitarised zones; 
Requests the Secretary-General to designate a Special Representative to' proceed to the Middle East to establish and maintain contacts with the States concerned in order to promote agreement and assist efforts-to achieve a peaceful and accepted settlement in accordance with the provisions and principles in this resolution; 
Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security Council on the progress of the efforts of the Special Representative as soon as possible. 
-I would think so. I think that resolution 242 is very important in the context of what will be .said in this debate. I will read two other short resolutions of the Security Council because there seems to have been some confusion about them- These resolutions were adopted in the Security Council on 22 and 23 October last. The first states: 
The Security Council-  
Calls upon ali parties' to trie present fighting to cease all firing and terminate all military activity immediately, no later than 12. hours-after the moment of the adoption of this decision, in the positions they now occupy. 
Calls upon the 'parties concerned to start immediately after the, cease fire the implementation of SC resolution 242 in all of its parts 
Decides that immediately and concurrently with the cease fire, negotiations start between the parties concerned under appropriate auspices aimed at establishing a just and durable peace in the Middle East. 
That resolution was at first adhered to and then substantially broken. Of course, simultaneously while the Security Council was meeting, negotiations were going on between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America. The Security Council again met the following day and, referring to its resolution of 22 October, added these words: 
Confirms its decision on an immediate cessation of all kinds of firing and of all military action, and urges that the forces be returned to the positions they occupied at the moment the cease fire became effective. 
Requests the Secretary General to take measures for immediate dispatch of United Nations observers to supervise the observance of the cease-fire between the forces of Israel and the Arab Republic of Egypt, using for this purpose the personnel of the United Nations now in the Middle East and first of all the personnel now in Cairo. 
I said a little while ago that I would read those resolutions because there appears to be some confusion about them, and I detected this confusion in the amendment which was moved by  Senator Byrne  a few minutes ago. That amendment contained these words:  to enforce the United Nations cease fire proposal which is based on direct negotiations for a Middle East settlement between the Arab governments and Israel. 
That is not what the resolutions said. Whether one thinks they ought to have said it or did not say it, the fact is that that was not what was said in those 2 resolutions. I do not think anyone underrates the seriousness, or certainly the potential seriousness, of a war in the Middle East. It is a problem with which we have been living over a long period of time. 
I do not want to go deeply into the history of all this, 1 merely want to come as quickly as I can to the attitude of the Australian Government which, incidentally, follows on what the previous Government has done, but up-dating with the march of events. But I want to deal just very briefly with it to try to put this thing into perspective and to show why the Australian Government has been led logically step by step to the action it takes in support of the previous Government's attitude to the Middle East conflict. Ever since the 1967 resolution there have been unsuccessful attempts to bring it into effect; that is, to get the Israelis to withdraw and to get the Arab countries to recognise that there is a state of Israel, and in the course of that at long last to try to do something about the Palestinian refugees, a problem which I point out is mentioned by the word 'refugees' in the original resolution 242. 
Continuing efforts were made but all of them have failed. It has always seemed to me that both sides should have realised that time was on neither side, that the longer this was allowed to carry on without any appreciable movement at all- in fact, I think I could delete the word 'appreciable' and say without any movement at all- then something like what has happened was always in danger of happening, either a preemptive strike from one side or the mounting of troops on the other. In fact, there has been a mounting of troops on both sides over these areas. 
Resolution 242 said that the SecretaryGeneral should take action, and he did so through what was known as the Jarring Mission.  Dr Gunnar  Jarring worked in this area over a period of time but the whole thing broke down in 1 97 1 because in his opinion and in the opinion of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Israel had failed to respond to a questionnaire to it by  Dr Jarring.  On the other hand, Israel's objection was that Jarring had exceeded his mandate by seeking in the questionnaire a prior commitment by Israel to withdraw from Arab territory as part of a first step towards a settlement. Egypt in its response to Jarring had agreed to enter into a peace agreement with Israel on the basis of Security Council resolution 242 providing Israel gave certain reciprocal commitments including that it would withdraw from Sinai and the Gaza Strip. This was again going back to resolution 242 and it was at that stage that the whole efforts of the United Nations Security Council broke down which I suppose in retrospect, but certainly at the time, was another vicious spin of the wheel against what ought to be happening in the Middle East. Since the suspension of that mission activity has been going on to try to force this to a head. 
Egypt made considerable efforts to generate international sympathy for the Arab cause and has increased pressure on the United Nations to provide a solution as the only alternative to further hostilities. Egypt requested a review of the situation in the Middle East by the Security Council following Israel 's raids on Beirut earlier this year. In the June-July sessions of the Security Council the review resulted in the drafting of a resolution by a group of non-aligned states deploring Israel's failure to withdraw from occupied territories. This was supported by all members of the Council including ourselves but was finally vetoed by the United Nations on the grounds that it was unbalanced and that it did not also incorporate a parallel reference to the right of all states in the area to live in peace within secure and recognised borders. Australia's attitude to this was that we supported the non-aligned states draft in July 1973 but it did not indicate any change in our policy of neutrality and friendly relations with both sides. While the resolution was far from ideal it was considered to be the best that could have been achieved in the current circumstances of world opinion which was turning away from Israel. At the same time it did not run counter to or seek to displace resolution 242. Moreover, our affirmative vote was intended to indicate Australia's support for the efforts of the international community in the Middle East and to reflect our view that the United Nations should be encouraged in its efforts to facilitate progress towards a peaceful settlement. We gave an explanation of our vote because we were not completely happy with the resolution as it stood and our explanation incorporated the precise language of resolution 242 regarding the right of states to live within secure and recognised boundaries. Australia's support of Israel 's right to exist as a state, which goes back to its vote in the General Assembly in 1948, is unchanged. 
The question of Israel's ultimate boundaries and the nature of a final settlement lie in the hands of the parties concerned and must flow as in the Prime Minister's phrase 'from agreement freely arrived at between the parties in accordance with the principles of resolution 242'. A connected point will be the resolution of the problem of the Palestinian refugees whose continuing plight has long been a subject of deep and practical concern to Australia. It would be hoped that any settlement would take this problem into full account. In the circumstances of the Middle East the Australian Government's policy has been not to permit the supply of Australian arms to any of the countries involved in the dispute. Australia cannot of course dictate the policies of other countries but it has always believed that the restraint on the supply of arms by others would help to reduce the tension in the area. 
I would like to finish this brief history, I suppose one might call it, by putting to the Senate the 2 sides as they have been presented in the world community. Egypt formally accepts resolution 242 although it has consistently stated that it will not enter into negotiations with Israel in the absence of an advance commitment by Israel to withdraw from all occupied Arab territory. In a statement in the June-July session of the Security Council Egypt's Foreign Minister strongly emphasised the principle of the inadmissibility of" the acquisition of territory by force and said that Egypt would never relinquish any territory. Israel's view has been that its acceptance of resolution 242 does not oblige it to withdraw from all territories occupied in 1967 but only to secure and defensible borders which would have to be negotiated and which would not be the pre- 1967 lines. This would involve retention of areas in the Sinai and the Golan Heights considered essential for its security. 
I have tried to pick up briefly the salient points of the situation which bring us to the situation in which we find ourselves today. Incidentally, when this situation blew up the Australian Government immediately expressed its serious concern at the outbreak of further hostilities and of course, as all honourable senators know, the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations is the  President  of the Security Council for this month. We are worried about the loss of life. In view of the potential of these hostilities and the fact that two of the super powers are backing the respective sides concerned, it is fortunate that in spite of that, the detente that came about between the USSR and the US prior to this situation has proved to be an anchor in these very troubled times. They each started to supply both sides. In the old days as honourable senators can imagine, that would very quickly have blown up into a world war. But because of the detente or because of some other better considerations for each other, Russia and the United States were able at the same time to enter into negotiations to bring about a ceasefire as a preliminary towards peace talks. 
We have welcomed the joint ceasefire resolution because obviously before we can get anywhere we have to have a ceasefire. It is disappointing that the first ceasefire broke down but, as I said this morning, in many ways this is an understandable situation. When there is an in situ ceasefire, inevitably troops are scattered. If a section of troops on one side is being sandwiched between 2 sides and if the 2 sides try to join up, naturally there will be hostilities in that area. I think that this is quite unavoidable in a war of this sort. The days of having a war where there was a straight line down the middle and where each side pulled up at the sides I think has gone for ever. This is not a situation in which I have completely lost hope. In fact, I am optimistic. Because of the seriousness of the situation, because of what the Security Council has been doing and because of the actions of the USSR and the USA, I believe that we have grounds for at least some optimism, if not now at least in the weeks to come. We have supported the Security Council resolutions because we see them as being an updating of the practical and meaningful situation for which resolution 242 stands. But one of the reasons why I would not like to see  Senator Kane  's motion carried in any form, and particularly in the Senate, is because it seeks to apportion blame. The Australian Government does not think there is any mileage in this at all. There is a war on. It has been going on over all this time and the immediate thing is to stop the fighting. Another thing is not to return to the situation which we have had for 6 years but to do something better. We should not lay down these inescapable rules because no matter how much both sides might berate one another there can be no firm and lasting peace until those three propositions are put into effect and accepted. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party is apportioning blame because in its motion it is saying that it was the Arabs who caused the war. 
-Just a moment. You have amended it 3 times. We do not see any hope at all in apportioning blame to anybody. That situation will not bring about peace. Over the years both the previous Government and this Government have assiduously moved away from this situation and not apportioned blame. We have tried to get to a situation where both sides will recognise the sovereignty of each other. Resolution 242 has again been endorsed by the situation which has arisen. So both sides, at least to some degree, have agreed with it and it seems that until something better comes along this is the resolution that we ought to hang on to. The other day the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in the House of Representatives that the Australian Government is committed to the sovereignty of Israel. 
However, the question of the ultimate boundaries between the various states in the area will have to be worked out at the negotiations envisaged in the ceasefire resolution of 22 October. Throughout all this conflict, when people could very well have lost their heads, this Government has tried to maintain our situation. We are neutral in the conflict. We are trying to be evenhanded with the countries with which we have friendly relations. By doing this we think that it is the best thing for Australia because our interests are better preserved this way and, also, it is the best we can do for peace in the Middle East. The essential thing after there is a ceasefire is to make sure that in the negotiations both sides realise that they just cannot go back to a stalemate of 6 years and sit on a situation again. I would not think that they would want to because, as I repeat, they surely realise by now- as they should have realised over the years- that time was not on their side. 
If  Senator Little  says that we ought to wait over 20 years as we have in Korea - 

 -If Senator Little wants to recommend that we should wait 20 years in the Israeli-Arab conflict, I think he will find that he is dealing with something which can very quickly get out of hand. This is the situation which they must not be allowed to get back to. I am dealing with the Arab-Israeli case. I am not dealing with the Korean case. I am not dealing with any of the other cases which  Senator Little  likes to drag across the track as red herrings. If  Senator Little  wants to deal with the Korean case then let him introduce it. What his Party has done on this occasion is to move a motion in relation to the Middle East and that is what I am dealing with. A little while ago  Senator Byrne  raised the matter of the recognition of Israel as if it were thought about for the first time. Resolution 242 states clearly that all nations in that area must be recognised and that their sovereignty must be recognised. I repeat, the 3 essentials as I see them are that the Arab countries have to recognise Israel; the Israelis must withdraw from the occupied territories- and no wonder, because if people are sitting in your backyard it will be a continuing source of conflct- and above all the Palestinians - 
-I am dealing with the Middle East. The honourable senator should get off South Vietnam and Korea.  His  Party introduces a motion here and then starts to run away from the situation. We are dealing with a tremendously serious situation but the honourable senator seems incapable of facing up to that fact. The previous Government was sensible enough to play this correctly. We are following in its footsteps by bringing the situation up to date with the things that are imposed on us from outside. As I was saying, the third thing that must be respected is the question of the Palestinians. This morning in answer to  Senator McManus  I said that if there were any recent developments I would bring them to his attention this afternoon. But looking at the paper that has been prepared for me I cannot see anything very new. He would be well aware of what has happened in relation to arguments as to where troops are. I do not think that is all that important in the question of a ceasefire. But United Nations observers are moving in, particularly on the Canal front. For what it is worth I suppose it is a good thing that they are able to go in. I do not know what happens if a war breaks out. I suppose they report it. But at least they are in the position of being able to move into this area. 
I have said a couple of times that I am an optimist in this situation. I suppose that in the field of foreign affairs if one is not an optimist as one looks around the world then one had better get out. If we look at the elements which we have going for us, there always has been the problem of the Egyptians and the Arab countries saying clearly and definitively that they respect the right of Israel to exist. Early this week  President  Sadat made a quite unequivocal statement which has been repeated in many leading articles around the world that he was not interested in destroying Israel; he was interested in regaining the territories which had been taken from him. Some people will say that they do not believe him. Of course they will. But, after all, we can only start in very small measures. We can have a ratchet effect by grabbing something and moving on to the next stage. Sadat has said this. I read it very carefully. He has said it unequivocally. If this is something on which we can hang a peg then we have achieved something which we had not achieved before. Of course Israel, on the other side, has to agree to substantially withdraw and move away from the territories it is occupying. At the same time, both sides have to recognise the Palestinian situation. 
I had tried not to go too far into the history of this situation but merely to show the stage to which both governments have been led because of the situation. In spite of optimism, there is no doubt that the area is the greatest danger spot in the world. When two of the super powers are arming both sides, that is potentially dangerous. Mollifying that effect has been the fact that the super powers have been able to keep talking whilst it has been going on. From time to time I have noticed Australians pressing- rightly so because an Australian is  President  of the Security Council this month- for us to do more.  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre has done something about this. I quote briefly from an evening newspaper that was given to me just before I came into the Senate chamber. The article was written by another Australian- Randal Heymanson- who has lived in New York for about 26 years. He says: 
Only the calmness and impartiality of the  president  of the United Nations Security Council. Australia's  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre kept the impassioned and angry debates on the ArabIsraeli war from explosion. Under a more excitable or partisan  president  the worst might have happened.  Sir Laurence,  a effacing man of few words, displayed a dignity and restraint which was not without its influence on the disputants. 
I read those words for the benefit of people who do not know  Sir Laurence.  For those of us who know him, there is no need for us even to read the article. 
-I will have the relevant parts extracted from that great speech and ask the Treasurer to comment on them. 
In reply to the first question asked of me as Minister for Foreign Affairs I wish to point out, firstly, that when we recognise a country or become friendly with a country it does not mean that we agree with all of its foreign policy or internal policy. If we were to do that we would be friends with nobody. The problem with the previous Government was that there was a tremendous imbalance because it looked at the ideology of a particular country and then decided whether it would recognise or be friends with it. That was an imbalance which had to be corrected. It was corrected by the new Government.  Senator McManus  said that he saw something in a newspaper. I trust his word that he did. I read the newspapers as carefully as I could and I did not see that. The answer to the second part of the honourable senator's question as to whether  Mr Whitlam  was going to explain Chinese policy to the rest of South East Asia is that  Mr Whitlam  was very clear that he was not going to be an advocate or an apologist for the People's Republic of China but that if anybody was to discuss it with him he would make very clear what Australia's attitude was towards recognition and how we are getting on with the People 's Republic of China. 
There is no question of in other words '; those were the words. 
-Firstly, I state that I heard  Mr Hawke  speaking on the television program. I did not understand him to use the words significantly increase'. I think that he was dealing with a general proposition. Maybe the honourable senator is right. I do not think it matters very much whether or not he said 'significantly'. He dealt with the whole question of whether in these circumstances there should be an increase in taxation. He said that in his view there should be. I hope that we never have a government in Australia that prevents people from expressing their views on television programs or anywhere else. I do not see that there is anything wrong with that. If that view disagrees with something that we said months ago, what is wrong with that? There is a new government that believes in a little bit of free speech. The honourable senator asks me what I will decide between now and the next 10 years. I do not have a crystal ball. Of course, I will not answer that question. 
One honourable senator is saying 'the next Budget' and another one is saying 'the next election'. I do not think that there is anything magical about a Budget and I do not think that there is anything magical about an election. 
Would the honourable senator be quiet for 2 seconds? He has asked a question; now he should listen to the answer. There is nothing very magical about 30 June, a Budget or an election date. This Australian Government, as a proper government, and its Cabinet will decide in its view what we should do about the economic situation or in other situations in which we have been given a mandate to take action. We will do that fearlessly and honestly. We will not answer questions like this. Because somebody down in Melbourne says something, the honourable senator wants a guarantee from me about doing this, that or the other thing. 
In view of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's knowledge of these things I appreciate the question. I cannot answer it off the cuff, as he would appreciate, but I will certainly refer it to see what I can find out for him. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950, I present the twenty-fifth annual report of the Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31 December 1972, together with the report of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
As usual in these debates a lot of exaggerations have been thrown in. I will deal with those that did not stray too far from the point.  Senator Wright,  as is his wont, of course, has gone on with a lot of histrionics most of which have nothing to do with the case.  His  memory is slipping as he gets older. He has told us it was he who raised the question of the IPEC case. Of course, it was  Senator McKenna.  But it does not matter very much.  Senator DrakeBrockman  in putting forward the case which has been agreed upon by the Opposition, I think, because he may have been genuinely mistaken about what claims for compensation can be, said we would be denying compensation to persons winning such things as sand, gravel and rock. That is not the case. They would have a just claim to compensation if they were operating at that time to extract those types of materials from their land. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman came to the crux of the difference between the Government and Opposition on this because he very obviously supported a proposition that a landholder can claim the increment that he gets from national investment. That is a part of the situation and it will become a little more clear from some of the things that I will say a little later. A lot has been made of section 51 of the Constitution- that land should be acquired on just and reasonable terms. However, I am informed that there is already a High Court decision on this in the Tau case in New Guinea in which it was held that in making laws for the acquisition of property in the Territory the Government is not limited to making laws which provide just terms. 
-Senator Withers agrees. So it is not just as simple as the Constitution makes out.  Senator Wright  again seems to be disagreeing with the High Court but that is the decision that has been made. 
-The honourable senator claims great knowledge of the law and great fairness. I wish that when he is dealing with these things he would give us the benefit of his knowledge. If the Tau case was known to him I would have thought that he would have been generaous enough to refer to it.  Senator Withers  led for the 
Opposition in a much more restrained manner than his colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Wright.  It must be remembered that until 1955 acquisition could be based on the 1908 value. That was altered then to fair and just terms. But even from then on there never has been this question of taking rural land and putting urban potential on it. The situation is not limited to that factor. Substantial areas are to be acquired. The acquisition of this particular area was started by the previous Government. It had not been completed when we came into government. The Department went on and then ran into the problem which we have at the moment. 
I think that I should put a few things down for the record. The 3 Opposition parties have agreed on this matter. I wonder whether they thought it through fully before they made up their minds. I am inclined to think that they gave their judgment before they read the evidence. The history of this matter shows clearly that Parliament never intended that freeholders in the Territory should profit from the creation of the national capital. The way Canberra has developed it is obvious, as  Senator O'Byrne  pointed out, that the taxpayers' money is being poured in because somebody, sitting on rural land, suddenly decides that because of the increment which comes from this land it ought to be the basis for a claim. Generally compensation for acquired freehold has been negotiated at current rural values in spite of the amendment to the 1955 Act. When the Lands Acquisition Act was revised in 1955 legislation was introduced to remove the 1908 value peg and to substitute compensation on fair and just terms. Since then compensation for acquired rural lands has been on a non-urban basis. In no case has compensation been paid for urban potential. The next note I have here deals with the position at Tuggeranong where a claim is now before us for $35.54m. This is for one section of acquisition which this Government or any other government will have to face if we are going to have reasonably priced land and if we are to go on with the development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
-The Commonwealth offer was $ 1.875m for the 9,000-acre property. The owner can appeal to the court on that offer. That is what he has done. So far so good. A new concept is being imported into this situation which no Parliament or government- not the previous Government nor this Government- has ever contemplated should be brought in. If these claims were successful the cost of producing an average residential block in Canberra could increase very substantially. That is obvious. Outstanding and future claims from other freeholders could be adjusted upwards. The amount involved would bc enormous, possibly well over $100m. Wider national repercussions could be a questioning of the credibility of the Australian Government's policy in relation to land price stabilisation in areas designed for new cities. So we have here the whole base of the Government's policy. In many areas there is no disagreement with the Opposition. The question on which  Senator Wright  was waxing very eloquent was the difference between Hall and Tharwa. The situation is that with Hall and Tharwa there is developed urban land already and therefore the question of rural values does not come into the matter. There is no argument that if one is in a developed urban area that is the sort of compensation which one can expect to get. But the whole basis of this is that people acquire rural land for rural purposes and then start to say that the urban potential should be brought into the whole situation. I think that the difference between the Opposition and the Government is quite clear. The Opposition is saying that the freeholder is entitled to compensation for enhanced potential arising from the investment of public funds. 
With great respect, the whole of the honourable senator's argument and particularly the argument from  Senator DrakeBrockman  tends towards that end.  Senator Withers  has been sitting talking to  Senator Wright  and he is picking up the honourable senator's bad habits. He is starting to interject. 
-Well, let me finish and then judge me when I have finished. I accept  Senator Withers'  remonstrance. The main argument- and this is all we are trying to dorelates to taking rural land, applying to it an urban potential and making that the basis of a claim before the court. If that succeeds the whole basis of cheap land in Australia fails- if there is any cheap land left. We are trying to keep the price down to some sort of reasonable level as we have done in the Australian Capital Territory. We are seeking development on an orderly basis, but the whole of that basis will be smashed and the Opposition ought to realise that. We want to make this quite clear. All we are asking in this Bill is that the courts be left free in everything else, but what this Parliament has said ever since it first became a Federal Parliament should be made clear to them and should be underlined. I repeat that there has never been any suggestion by any government that this type of increment should be allowed to go to the question of acquisition, irrespective of the amendment to the Act of 1955. What we want to do is excise from the court's consideration that and that alone. Obviously the Opposition has met in caucus on this. It has the numbers so it will be on its head if it is decided to go on with this action. It is as clear as that. 
We say that with rural land in large holdings like this the urban portential rate of the land should not be made the basis of a claim. Evidently the Opposition is saying that that is what ought to be done. It is still open for the court to make decisions, as has been pointed out by  Senator Withers.  I do not suppose that anybody ever goes into court with a claim such as this and expects to get the full amount claimed. Nevertheless- the lawyers can tell us more about this- this will be the basis of future claims if we go on with our action today. If the court is allowed to take this type of thing into consideration then the whole of the work of all parliaments and governments in federal jurisdiction over all these years will be reversed. I suggest that this will make it well nigh impossible to go on with the development of the ACT as has been the practice. Obviously this will multiply the price of land and housing many times. That is the decision which the Opposition is going to take. It is quite clear what we are doing. This is not a complicated thing. As I have repeated several times, it is simply that we want to go on with the compensation which has been granted by all governments over the years. We want to take into consideration all those other things but this new matter has reared its head. We say that this was never intended in any legislation before and it should not be allowed now. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be read a second time. 
-I will refer the question to the Treasurer. 
-I think most people know that Australia voted last week in the United Nations for the proposition to send in a peace keeping force to the Middle East and said that we would sympathetically consider any request to send troops to this area. The SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations was then instructed to come back with requests for the type of force that he wanted. He plans a force of about 7,000. He is looking at such questions as geographical and ideological locations. Of course, the permanent members of the Security Council, which are most of the big powers, are excluded from providing members of the force. So far the composition of the force has not been determined. In the interim the United Nations has moved some troops across from Cyprus to carry out an immediate survey and to move into the area immediately. As I understand the situation there will be only 7,000 troops. Very obviously a lot of nations will not be required to send large numbers of troops. We are waiting for  Mr Kurt  Waldheim to make up his mind exactly where he wants these people to come from. I ask honourable senators to think about the position for a bit. He has an unenviable job trying to get all the pieces together. 
I wish to make a statement relating to the visit to Japan and China by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The statement I am about to make was delivered earlier today in the House of Representatives by the Prime Minister. Honourable senators will understand that when I speak in the first person I am referring to the Prime Minister. 
The Ministerial delegation to Japan, for the second Australia-Japan Ministerial Committee, was the largest and the most senior ever to represent Australia abroad. My visit to Peking was the first by any Australian Prime Minister. Both visits were marked by great warmth on both sides; both visits were characterised by frankness and firmness from both sides; both visits notably advanced the interests of Australia and our friendship and understanding with these 2 great neighbours, Japan and China. 
On the visit to Japan- from 26 October to 3 1 October- I was accompanied by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  On the visit to Chinafrom 31 October to 4 November- I was accompanied by the Treasurer and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  In both countries my colleagues and I were supported by senior officials. I firmly believe that the visit will prove to be of considerable importance and value to the whole of Australia. With Japan, we have both broadened and more clearly defined the Australian-Japanese relationship and formed a firm basis for its continuing and future development in the years ahead. In China I consider that my visit symbolised the successful ending of a generation of lost contact between Australia and the most populous nation on earth. 
Japan is our major trading partner in the world and China is the only one of the world 's 5 major powers with which, until last December, we have not had any meaningful or regular official contact. In Japan, the talks with Prime Minister Tanaka and Foreign Minister Ohira, and the wide-ranging and very frank and substantial discussions at the Ministerial Committee Meeting, have broadened the AustralianJapanese understanding which is vital to both countries. I believe that any misunderstanding that existed in Japan about the nature of the 
Government's policies on minerals and energy and on overseas investment have now been cleared away. Likewise, any uncertainties the Japanese may have felt about the reliability of Australia as a long-term supplier of the raw materials which are essential to Japan has also been dispelled. 
In Japan, too, I believe that valuable understandings have been reached about the longterm access for Australian primary products to the important and growing Japanese market. The exceptionally close and important relations between Japan and Australia are to be expressed in a broad bilateral treaty.  Mr Tanaka  readily accepted my suggestion, and himself announced that the Treaty be called the Treaty of Narabearing the title of Japan's ancient capital, which I also visited. It will be identified as the Australia Relations Agreement- NARA. Australian and Japanese officials will very soon begin detailed discussion on the Agreement. I believe the Treaty of Nara will be seen as one of the historic treaties which Australia will have entered into. 
Honourable senators will note that we have also agreed to enter into 2 further agreements with Japan- a Cultural Agreement and an agreement on the protection of migratory and other birds- as well as to conduct wide-ranging official discussions on a number of issues including access for agricultural products, tariffs, and minerals and energy matters, including uranium. We have also agreed to renew the Agreement on Commerce with Japan, which was last revised in 1963. There was a useful exchange of views on developments in Papua New Guinea in which that country's Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations,  Mr Maori  Kiki, participated. I believe my visit to China was most valuable in restoring balance to our foreign policy and in diversifying our foreign relations. I had no less than 1 1 hours of formal talks with Premier Chou En-lai and over an hour with  Chairman  Mao Tse-tung. As honourable senators will appreciate, in the extensive time accorded to me by Premier Chou the discussions extended over a very wide range of international issues of interest to both countries. 
I believe that we now have a much greater understanding of Chinese attitudes on these issues. I believe, too, that on the Chinese side, there is now a much clearer and first-hand understanding of our policies. While there were areas of agreement, there were also issues on which our policies differed and, in such cases, I did not hesitate to put our position fully and frankly to my Chinese hosts. For example, I reaffirmed at the highest level the Australian 
Government's determined opposition to nuclear testing in the atmosphere. Our differences on these and other matters were discussed on a basis of mutual respect. I believe that the warmth of the reception I and my party received in Peking demonstrates that China like Japan recognises, to a greater extent than some Australians may believe, the growing importance of Australia as a middle power, especially in the Asian and Pacific region. 
As honourable senators will know, important and valuable arrangements were made for the sale to China of up to 300,000 tons of sugar per year for a three to five year period commencing in 1975. Arrangements were also made for the active promotion of closer consultations between Australian and Chinese officials and for a program of visits in both directions. The Australian and Chinese Foreign Ministers are to exchange visits at times to be determined in 1974. It was also agreed that we should develop a planned program of cultural, scientific, and technological exchanges between Australia and China, and that representative missions in these fields would be exchanged in 1974. Honourable senators will be pleased to know that an understanding in principle was reached between the 2 sides on travel from China to Australia by relatives of Australian citizens of Chinese descent and Chinese citizens residing in Australia. This should facilitate family reunions. 
I believe that my visit will give new direction and increased momentum to our existing relationship with Japan and will lead to the development of a more meaningful relationship and a continuing dialogue with China which, for so long- for much too long- has been a closed book to this country. I would like to pay tribute in the Parliament to the tireless efforts of the Australian embassies in Tokyo and Peking during our visit. The ambassadors and their staffs performed, under considerable pressure, in a manner of which Australia should be proud. I would also like to record here my appreciation of the objective and constructive advice tendered to my Ministers and me by the senior officials who accompanied us from Australia. I table the Communique issued in Tokyo after my visit to Japan as Prime Minister, the Joint Communique adopted by the Australia-Japan Ministerial Committee, my statement to that Committee setting out the Government's policy on foreign investment in Australia, and the Joint Press Communique issued in Peking on 4 November. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
-On 10 October 1973  Senator Little  asked  Senator Murphy  a question without notice concerning the effect of increased interest rates on home buyers. The Treasurer has provided the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A scheme for deductibility of mortgage interest payments for taxation purposes from 1 July 1974 is under study and will come forward for Government consideration in good time for any legislation to be brought down in the Autumn Parliamentary Session. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) At present a private company may retain, free of undistributed income tax, the following proportions of its taxable income less primary tax payable on that income- 
trading income-  50 per cent of the first $ 1 0,000; 45 per cent of the next $ 10,000; and 40 per cent of the balance, 
property income- 10 per cent of property income other than dividends from other private companies, 
dividends from other private companies- nil. 
As I announced on 14 September 1973, it is proposed that for the 1972-73 and subsequent income years a flat retention of SO per cent of trading income will be permitted. The allowance for property income, other than private company dividends, is to remain unchanged at 10 per cent as is the nil retention in respect of private company dividends. 
3 ) See answer to ( 2 ). 
-I think the land would be valued on the basis of an agricultural proposition and not as an urban proposition. But I am not sure because I am not a taxation expert. I will find out for the honourable senator. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to repeal the High Commissioner (United Kingdom) Act 1909-1966 and for purposes connected therewith. 
-The answer to the first question is yes, we recognise the Lon Nol Government.  Mr Whitlam  had conversations with Prince Sihanouk and told him very clearly what the position was- that we recognised the Lon Nol Government. My attitude to this matter is that we will recognise the government which is finally decided upon by the Cambodian people. As long as the Lon Nol Government is there, we will continue to recognise it. Because there is a war going on, we do not try to look into a crystal ball and say what will finally happen. It is nothing unusual to talk to somebody who is not necessarily the head of state. When visitors come here they visit Opposition members who are here. 
As to whether we are actively assisting dissident forces to overthrow, we are not actively assisting the Khmer Rouge. We are not actively assisting Prince Sihanouk. I myself do not know whether, if the Lon Nol Government fell- and it still has not fallen and it may not, I do not know- the Khmer Rouge would want somebody else or whether it would want Prince Sihanouk. He has made several statements on what his future might be in his own country of Cambodia. The third question was: Do we go round trying to upset governments? Of course we do not. It is a matter for the people of that country to decide who is going to govern them, and then it becomes a question with the change of governmentas happened in Chile- whether, within certain parameters, you recognise the new government. 
-No, it is not the Government's policy to maintain high interest rates. The present high interest rates have been brought about only because of the very bad inflationary situation in the world today. The answer to the second part of the question is yes, I will ask the Ministers to see what they can do to help local government bodies. 
The improvement in the way in which we are handling statements is that statements were never made previously. This has been an inauguration of this Government. We have presented a statement on any conference that we have attended overseas. 
The inauguration is the presenting to this Parliament of statements dealing with conferences that we attend overseas. As soon as I get the details finalised next week I will be presenting statements on 4 conferences that I attended. This was never done previously. What happened previously was that now and again we would get a statement on foreign affairs. 

 - Senator Sim says that it was a full statement. He is getting very confused about 2 different things. Honourable senators are still presented with the same type of statement by this Government when it is considered appropriate. 
-Senator Sim has asked his question and he should listen to the reply. That is why he never improves; he talks all the time and never listens. 
I am answering very clearly.  Senator Sim  is getting completely confused about 2 things. Honourable senators were presented with foreign affairs statements by the previous Government and those statements used to be criticised by the then Opposition. Now they are presented with statements by this Goverment and those statements are criticised by the present Opposition. There is nothing new about that. What is new is that we are giving, tabling and making public statements about those conferences which we attend overseas. In my own case, when I did attend a conference I gave a brief report which became a public document. The one favourable thing which  Senator Greenwood  said about the statement yesterday was that it was completely proper. He looks amazed that he said anything good about it, but he did. If he looks at Hansard he will see that he did. He said that it was completely right. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
We have introduced Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973-74 in order to obtain further appropriations totalling $35,944,000. These are needed to enable urgent payments to be made pending the passage of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. This Bill will provide only the rninimum amount necessary to carry on the services detailed in the Schedule to 30 November 1973. In previous years, the Appropriation Bills have usually been dealt with and passed a good deal earlier than this. A recent exception was in 1971, and additional Supply was obtained then. 
Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-1974 appropriated a total of $1,556,348,000 for salaries, administrative expenses and other services of departments in the period 1 July 1973 to 30 November 1973. In a number of instances, and for a variety of reasons, these appropriations have proved insufficient. Salary increases amounting to some $46m which have had to be paid in the Supply period have been funded under section 4 of the Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-1974, but there are some substantial salary requirements which cannot be met from that provision such as salary increases to staffs of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian National University and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. These amount to $5,288,000. 
Not only have there been substantial increases in rates of pay, but staff changes resulting from the re-structuring of departments, the establishment of new departments and an increased tempo of activity have also put additional pressures on the Supply appropriations. In other areas too the level of" expenditure has been higher than could have been reasonably anticipated. For example, the Department of Education requires an additional $1,834,000 to meet payments under the assistance scheme for isolated school children and for Aboriginal secondary grants and study grants. In those cases the numbers of applicants coming forward during the period have been greater than was estimated. 
The Department of the Army requires a further $3,733,000 to meet additional gratuity payments and bonuses on re-engagement as well as to compensate for an under-estimate due to a change, as from 1 July, in the method of accounting for recoveries of charges and rations and quarters. For similar reasons an additional $2,243,000 is being sought for the Department of Air. A sum of $2,691,800 is also required to meet a claim from the State of Victoria for advances for servicemen's housing- a claim which is normally made much later in the financial year. The remaining items detailed in the Schedule to the Bill are in general required to cover costs of staff increases and under-estimates of other requirements pending the availability of the amounts included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-1974. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
-The Government does not intend to spend $2 4m on the Tokyo property. I think the honourable senator mentioned that we were thinking of buying 4.5 acres of ground. We already own 4.5 acres of ground and it is a tremendously valuable piece of property. How we came to get it in the first place I do not know. It is a wonderful situation to have- 4.5 acres of ground almost in the heart of Tokyo- and it would never be possible to get it again. Some moneys are being spent on redeveloping the whole complex, including houses and all the rest of it; but we are not intending to buy any land. We were negotiating to buy about an eighth of an acre, I think; but the last time I inquired, when I was there a few weeks ago, the negotiations had fallen through and we do not look like getting it. We already own the 4.5 acres. Some buildings are to be refurbished or taken down and rebuilt. The figure, though, is nowhere near $24m 
Australia has never used the withholding of aid as a threat to any country. This Government does not intend to start doing that. I have said several times here that we would generously support the post-war reconstruction of the 4 Indo-Chinese states and that we would do it without regard to the ideological complexion of the governments. The honourable senator asks whether, if the continuing build-up or the activities which he suggests are carried would this invite a strong Australian reaction. I do not know what he means by that. Does he mean that he would want us to send troops back into Vietnam or would he want us to make some statements? The situation in Vietnam is that there are continuing accusations and counter accusations by both sides. The Australian Government, together with many other governments, believes that we can add nothing to what we hope will be a permanent peace settlement in Indo-China by interfering at this stage. The Vietnamese have signed certain agreements. They are being left alone to work out those agreements. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I wanted a chance to correct some misinformation which I gave to  Senator DrakeBrockman  towards the end of my reply. I said that the amounts were not near $24m. I remember signing a document some months ago which to my mind related to about $1 lm. I have had this matter checked. What happened was that there were 2 stages to be developed costing about $10m or $1 lm each. The Department of Works or the Department of Services and Property, whichever is controlling this matter, decided to make it one stage. Therefore the latter part of my remarks was wrong and the cost does approximate $24m. 
I read a report on the Ethiopian situation when I was in London. When I returned I asked for some information on the drought that has prevailed for quite a long time. Earlier in the year there was quite a belt of drought and it seems to have concentrated in this particular area. We tried to get some information on the matter but we could not. I asked the Australian Ambassador in Nairobi,  Mr Rogers,  to go and have a look at the situation. It was on his report that I acted at the weekend and made the presentation of wheat. The other part of the honourable senator's question related to the other countries concerned. The drought extends right through a belt and I think some of the other countries concerned are Chad and Niger but its main effect is in Ethiopia. It is quite a difficult operation. We have told Ethiopia that wheat will be available. There is an organisation under the Food and Agricultural Organisation to which we made a presentation earlier in the year. The next step is to find whether it can handle this wheat. That would make the position much easier. The question may arise of having the wheat bagged because it is to be distributed away from centres. Incidentally when  Mr Crean  was in Africa recently he made offers of economic assistance but did not receive an application for it. We still have not received an application from Ethiopia. However, that may not mean anything as it may have made application to one of the international bodies. The point is that we have promised the wheat. We will have to ascertain the details to determine the final amount. 
A telegram did come in which I referred to my Department. It was related to a question that was raised earlier. I understand that a cheque had already been forwarded before  Mr Lynch  appeared on the program 'Federal File'. I did ask for the exact details but I did not bring them into the chamber with me. I understand that there was a slight delay in payment to an officer on  Mr Lynch  's staff. I do not think it was untoward and I do not think the amount he stated was correct. 
It is not usual to disclose the price of gifts given to people in other parts of the world.  Mr President,  in accordance with the indication contained in your comment, I have no intention of answering the rest of the question. 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, though brief, is of some practical and historical significance. In form it is merely a repeal Bill; it will repeal the High Commissioner (United Kingdom) Act 1909-1966. In its practical effect it will terminate the present legislative basis for administration of the Australian High Commission in London, thereby clearing the way for administration to be on the same basis as that for all other Australian diplomatic missions abroad. In its historial aspect it formally signifies that Australia's diplomatic relations with Britain are no longer regarded as being different in kind from its diplomatic relations with other countries. 
It may be of interest to honourable senators if, before dealing more fully with the Bill, I outline briefly the history of the Act which it is proposed to repeal. In 1906 the Australian Government found it necessary to appoint a representative to look after its interests in the United Kingdom, especially in connection with the purchase of defence material. A representative of the Treasurer was later appointed to deal with financial matters. In 1909 the High Commissioner Act was passed to enable broader diplomatic functions to be exercised by Australia's official representative. The four-yearly Imperial Conference had apparently been then regarded as a permanent arrangement, and it was felt that a High Commissioner, with an enlarged staff, was necessary to assist with liaison work between these Conferences, as well as to present a balanced Australian representation in Britain, as distinct from the primarily partisan efforts of the States' AgentsGeneral. Canada had maintained a High Commissioner in Britain for some years, and questions of prestige and trade promotion were evidently important. It was envisaged, in this humble beginning, that the States would agree to transfer their function to the High Commissioner, but, as honourable senators are well aware, the States still maintain officers under Agents-General in London. 
The 1909 Act created the office of our first diplomatic representative abroad. Over the years, it was amended as necessary because of changing requirements. It retained its original title through 4 amendments between 1909 and 1952, but by 1957 the post World War II expansion of Australian diplomatic representation was reflected in a change of name to the High Commissioner (United Kingdom) Act. From 1 957 on it became increasingly anomalous to administer Australia House, as the High Commission has long been popularly known, separately from other Australian diplomatic missions, all of which are staffed by Australia-based officers and locally engaged employees under the Public Service Act 1922-1973. Not only was it anomalous to have a separate administrative basis, but responsibility for the High Commission, alone of all our diplomatic missions, lay with the Prime Minister and not with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The previous Government, I am pleased to say, finally saw benefit in rationalising the position of the London mission and, on 1 November 1972, transferred responsibility for it to the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The present Bill is consequential on that transfer. Upon repeal of the Act administration of the High Commission will continue under the Public Service Act. To this end determinations under the Public Service Act will be made at the time of repeal. These, with existing provisions of the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1969, the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, and the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1968, will preserve or improve existing rights and terms and conditions of service of the present locally engaged High Commission staff, who will all continue in employment. 
Care has been taken by my Department and the Public Service Board, while this Bill has been in preparation, to keep the staff of the High Commission informed of developments and to consult closely with the Australian High Commission Staff Association. The Staff Association has given the fullest co-operation to the representatives of the Department and the Board, and I am happy to be able to inform honourable senators that agreement has lately been reached with the Association on new rules to replace the High Commissioner (Staff) Regulations which at present detail the terms and conditions of the staff. The new rules, as I have already indicated, will be in the form of determinations under the Public Service Act. The Association has indicated that it is anxious for early repeal of the Act and making of the determinations. The determinations will, of course, need to come into operation immediately upon repeal of the Act. In order to facilitate this, provision is made in clause 2 of the Bill for the Act to come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation. The only other clause that calls for comment is clause 4. The clause preserves existing rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1969 of persons who have such rights by virtue of having been officers of the Public Service immediately before they became officers under the High Commissioner (United Kingdom) Act. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the amendment made by the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
Honourable senators will recall that earlier this year I introduced into the Senate this Bill which proposes to amend section 18 (8) of the Public Works Committee Act to increase the mandatory limit for works considered by the Public Works Committee from $750,000 to $2m. Honourable senators opposite saw fit to move and pass an amendment to this Bill which, in its intention, would require the Public Works Committee to examine all capital works in excess of $2m undertaken by statutory authorities as well as Government departments. It is obvious that such an amendment would negate the original purpose of the Bill and result in the Committee being further burdened with works referred to it by the 60 or so statutory authorities. 
As I said during the original debate on this Bill, I wish to remain flexible on this matter. I have therefore already launched an in-depth examination by an interdepartmental committee of the full range of works undertaken by all arms of the Australian Government. Following this examination it should be possible to draw up a more rational method of selecting works for reference to the Public Works Committee. This was accepted by the House of Representatives which has returned the Bill to the Senate in its original form. I therefore commend the Bill to the Senate with the undertaking that the indepth examination already in progress will be pursued as a matter of urgency. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) After careful consideration of all the pertinent issues, it has been decided to proceed with the proposals announced in the Budget. The relevant legislation has already been introduced. If, as seems unlikely, real problems were to arise in gold mining areas, the Government would then consider appropriate steps to deal with them. 
Housing: Lending by Savings Banks  (Question No. 446) 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to (3) A request was made by the Reserve Bank on 20 August to the savings banks to hold, for the present, their lending for housing at the levels that had been reached in 1972-73. In the June quarter of that year the value of housing loans approved by the savings banks was 92 per cent greater than in the June quarter 1972 and 158 per cent greater than in the June quarter 1971. Against the background of such rapid growth the Reserve Bank's request to hold lending at recent levels could hardly be said to constitute restraint in the usual sense of the word. 
The intention of the request was to moderate the excessive flow of finance into housing which has given rise to lengthening delays in construction and escalating prices. In the overstretched state of the housing industry an excessive provision of finance was increasing delays and costs rather than enabling more houses to be built. 
5 ) See answer to ( 4 ). 
See preceding answers. The facts are that more dwellings have been commenced in the first half of 1973 than in any comparable period in Australia's history. In addition, it will be recalled that the Treasurer announced in his Budget Speech that the Government proposed to introduce legislation to provide for a scheme of deductibility of mortgage interest in the coming Autumn Parliamentary session, to have effect from 1 July 1974. The decision to end the Home Savings Grant Scheme was taken inter alia in the light of the decision to introduce the scheme of deductibility of mortgage interest. The Home Savings Grant Scheme is to be phased out in such a way that those who commenced to save for the grant before the announcement of its termination will be given time to complete their three years savings and receive the grant. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has on numerous occasions in the past made known its views that all countries should respect the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which the right to emigrate is an essential pan. As leader of the Australian Delegation I stressed in my statement to the current session of the United Nations General Assembly the importance which Australia attached to the full implementation of all international instruments concerned with human rights. In 1970, in the Third Committee of the U.N. General Assembly, the Australian representative expressed concern about the treatment of Jews in the Soviet Union and appealed to the Soviet Union to resist from policies or practices of discrimination against citizens of Jewish origin and to allow those wishing to emigrate to do so. Reference was also made to the same issue by the Australian representative to the 1971 meeting of the Third Committee. The present Government's attitude has been made plain by the Prime Minister this year and by him as Leader of the Opposition in former years to successive Soviet Ambassadors in Canberra. The Soviet Union has in recent years considerably relaxed its restrictions on the emigration of 
Jews with the result that an increasing number of Jewish citizens have been permitted to emigrate from the USSR. The Australian Government applauds this development. 
-Our policy in regard to Taiwan has been stated several times. What will be the situation of Taiwan vis-a-vis the People 's Republic of China in the future, I could not tell. 
-I will refer to the Treasurer those parts of the question which affect the Australian Government. I do not think the honourable senator expects me to make criticisms of another government. 
If I decide to give the Prime Minister any advice I shall certainly look for a much better briefing than I could get from  Senator Hannan. 

-Yes. To get more immediate help in these very tragic circumstances we have arranged for a quantity of protein enriched milk biscuits to go direct to Addis Ababa by Qantas Airways Ltd. We expect that to be within the next 2 weeks. If we can get it on an earlier flight it will go, but that depends upon Qantas. Also there has been set in train by the Disaster Emergencies Committee of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid a national appeal for the inhabitants of the area. It is hoped to raise a minimum of $200,000.I commend that appeal to anybody who wishes to associate himself with the provision of help for the area. Yesterday the honourable senator asked me whether wheat was to be given to Ethiopia and other places. I did not have a note in front of me. I could not remember them. The countries which are mainly affected are Ethiopia, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Senegal. The population of those countries is about 25 million, or which a little over half is affected by this drought. The stock losses in some places are as high as 83 per cent. The honourable senator asked what we are doing. The first thing that we are doing is taking immediate steps to send the protein enriched milk biscuits direct to Addis Ababa. As I explained yesterday, there will be some difficulties in getting the wheat there. It will be fairly slow. The other thing that we are doing is to be seen in the appeal which has been launched and which I commend to everybody. 
-I regret that  Senator Carrick  very obviously tries to import a political context into a situation such as this. Some weeks ago we gave a cash grant to the multilateral organisation under the Food and Agricultural Organisation.  Senator Carrick  is being very wise after the event. This situation was not known until recently. As I said yesterday, my interest was aroused in London and I did something about it immediately I got back. We sent our Ambassador to Addis Ababa when we could not find out anything about it.  Senator Carrick  acted on the premise that the only people in the world who are going to assist in this tragedy are the Australians. Australian aid is only one of many forms of aid and therefore it has to be dovetailed with the other situations which arise. As I said yesterday, we are still trying to seek information. It seems to us, from the advice that we can get, that this would be the best thing that we could do. Today we decided that as from yesterday- I am able to tell  Senator Davidson  now although I could not tell him yesterday because it was not finalised- we would send milk protein biscuits. We are sending them by the quickest possible way. 
-Will the honourable senator just wait until I have finished. We are sending them by the quickest possible way. It is just not that easy to get a Hercules aircraft on which to send them. If we could, the biscuits would go. How can the honourable senator make his comment when we have taken the 4 actions- we have also encouraged the general appeal- which we have taken to do something about this situation? Now, at this stage, we start to get criticised and honourable senators opposite start to import something of a political nature into the matter. The fact is that in relation to aid this Government is moving faster and giving greater amounts than the honourable senator's Party when in government ever did. There never has been this amount of aid. Even in relation to this amount we have not put a ceiling on it. This is the most immediate thing we can do. The honourable senator ought to realise, if he does not realise it, that there are several multilateral organisations throughout the world. I attended on three of them when I was away only a few weeks ago. This matter is constantly under study. Does the honourable senator think that we will ignore the people and the expertise which has been built up in relation to this subject over this time? We are doing everthing - 
-The honourable senator is so jealous that he is trying to import politics into a situation where people are dying in Africa today. 
-The answer is really no, I have not seen the statement. The Premier of Western Australia is probably a very persuasive man and a very outstanding Premier. I would say that he is probably the most outstanding Premier in Australia. He is battling for the gold mining industry. I think the honourable senator might hear something about this matter a little later. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government Administration Act 1936-1963 I present a statement on moneys received and expended during the year ended 30 June 1973 on the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Fortieth Report for 1973 of the Grants Commission on the applications made by the States of Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
in reply- It is very clear why this Bill was brought in.  Senator Cotton,  I thought, made the appropriate point that some of the details that have been raised in the debate are really matters for the Estimates Committees. The other speakers roamed very far away from the Bill itself, which they were quite entitled to do, and made rather political speeches. I do not think it is incumbent upon me to answer them.  Senator Cotton-  or it may have been  Senator Withers-  said there should be no complaint about taking the adjournment debate yesterday. There is none from me as Minister in charge of the Bill. The only other thing I would say is that I regret that  Senator Withers  referred to an item in the Press, which I have not seen, which implied by a headline that this Bill was being delayed by the Senate. I have not seen the ankle and I do not know which journalist wrote it. Journalists are here to report on the happenings of Parliament. As I understand the Press, they do not even write the headlines: A sub-editor does. 
The honourable senator made a very clear implication that this article was leaked or inspired in the Government side. I am in charge of the Bill, and I certainly did not inspire it. I never have inspired articles. I think the Press can get plenty of stories without assistance from parliamentarians. I just reject any suggestion that this was inspired by myself or anybody else on the Government side. It was an article the type of which we see every day in the Press. I certainly from this side of the House reject the implication and I regret that the journalist, whoever he was, has had this attributed to him. 
Otherwise, I thank the Opposition for allowing this Bill to go through for the normal requirements of government, so that the normal services of government can be carried on until the Appropriation Bills come in. I understand that they were held up in the other House because there were urgent Bills coming throughthat was the explanation given to me when I made this very inquiry- and had to take their place in the queue in the other place. I thank the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I want to reply briefly to the debate. Firstly, I am not going to defer this Bill in any way. If the Senate wants to reject it and send it back to another place it will do so knowing full well what the timetable is. It knows full well that this is not the normal appropriation. Honourable senators know full well that every item they have talked about today will be in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and that they will have the chance to deal with it. They already have dealt with many of these things when they have been brought up in the Estimates committees. 
The debate has ranged very wide. There has been criticism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for going to Peking. There has been criticism of the alleged drinking of some champagne on that trip. What that has to do with the Bill I do not know. I admit immediately that Opposition members have a genuine feeling about the purchase of a painting called 'Blue Poles'.  Senator McManus  anticipated this debate because yesterday, without any opposition and by means of a formal motion, he moved that the matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. I quote from Journals of the Senate ' which states: 
Reference of Matter  Senator McManus,  by leave, amended Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 2, standing in his name, and, pursuant to Notice, moved- That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts the following matter- Procedures, organisation and action necessary to ensure that the Council for the Arts, and its Boards, properly and effectively carry out their task of over-all promotion of the Arts in Australia. 
I suggest that any criticism levelled at the body which bought the painting called 'Blue Poles' should be put before the Committee to see whether, in its view, this has been a bad purchase. I do not know whether it was a bad purchase. I have not seen that painting. I would not be a good judge if I had seen it. I might say in passing that I do not believe that any of the critics have seen 'Blue Poles' either. I do not know that they would be any better judges than I in regard to the purchasing of works of art.  Senator Wood  in particular lodged criticism and said that 2 men were irresponsible. I do not know those 2 men and I do not know whether  Senator Wood  knows them. He chose to stand in his place and abuse 2 men who do not have the opportunity of reply. 
Yes, you did. You called them 2 irresponsible men. The honourable senator said that they were buying shickered art. He went on to say that a child was shickered too and he painted the picture, and so on. I do not blame the honourable senator if he has some doubts about it. That is fair enough. However I think he should be fair in his criticism. He should not abuse people who cannot reply.  Senator McManus  took the proper course yesterday. He feels disturbed about something and is using the committee system to examine the matter. 'Blue Poles' already has been paid for out of the Advance to the Treasurer. This small amount of $2m out of the total $36m to which  Senator Wright  has referred is to reimburse the Treasurer's Advance. As to one of the general subjects which has been brought up today, I suggest that it can be taken care of in the future by  Senator McManus'  motion which has been carried by the Senate and which will go to another place. We were told that this Bill would be assisted through this House. We were told, and I understood, that there would be 2 speakers on the Bill who would take a couple of minutes each. Now the Opposition has decided to change its mind, but I make no criticism of that. It is the right of honourable senators to talk if they want to. I merely say that this is quite different from what happened when the then Government was in this situation in 1971. We passed the Bill through the 2 Houses with a total debating time of eight or nine minutes. We did not try to rake over it. We easily could have done that. 
Anybody can be a critic. Anybody can go through a mass of figures and start debating them. What the Opposition has done today is to hold up this Bill very much longer than we anticipated and very much longer than we did a similar Bill in 1971. If the Opposition deletes this item and sends the Bill back to the other place, honourable senators know perfectly well that they will jam the Government, the Printer and the bureaucracy which has to handle this matter into a situation where there can be the difficulties which, without any basis, have been rumoured. Honourable senators can embarrass the Public Service in relation to the normal payments incurred for the services, and salaries and the running of the Commonwealth of Australia. If honourable senators do that, it is on their heads. I suggest that if they do, that is an irresponsible action. Honourable senators will have every opportunity to make all the complaints and criticisms which they have made today when the normal Budget proposals come forward, I understand tomorrow and next week. I say to honourable senators that if they choose to reject that Budget, then that is their responsibility and that too will be on their heads. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.7)- We are discussing in the Committee of the Whole, Supply Bill (No. 3) which involves an amount of about $36m. I want to speak only in relation to the sum of $ 1 , 959,500 which adverts to the acquisition of works for, and conservation of, the National Gallery. I am glad that the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  has intervened in the debate. lama little sorry that he did not intervene earlier because  Senator Wright  put a point of view and indicated an intention. Now the Minister, in his response, makes it abundantly clear that the amount of $1,959,500 relates to the purchase of a painting called ' Blue Poles ' by Jackson Pollock. Insofar as the purchase and the method of purchase are concerned, I find myself in complete support of the views put by  Senator Wright  initially and by other honourable senators during the Committee stage. I realise, as I think we all realise, that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. What one person gets some satisfaction from, perhaps another cannot see any beauty in. But it is incredible that one can pay US$2m for an item which was purchased previously for some US$36,000. 
I was at a private function on Saturday evening last with an Australian painter of renown. I shall not embarrass him by mentioning his name. He was almost beside himself in his concern and rage at the purchase of this painting for the sum mentioned. In addition he has expressed- I have asked him to put them in writing because I feel it is something upon which lay persons should not pontificate- some very critical arguments about the durability of the painting. It is his view, and he is no slouch, that it will need to be refurbished very quickly. That being so, the point made by  Senator Willesee  is that this is a purchase which the Government has made. In our view, it is a very poor purchase and one made very unwisely. But the decision has been taken. This is a Supply Bill and, as far as I am concerned, the Government must get Supply. The Minister has said that he will not defer the Bill, and I make it abundantly clear that in my view we have to give passage to this Supply Bill because that is the method of Parliament. We can use other forms of the House and we can do other things and make other references to this item. But here we have an item of Supply and the Government requires some $36m. 
The Government has to get Supply for this $36m. I make it abundantly clear that that is where I see my duty as much as I deplore the item, as much as I think it was a bad decision and as much as I think the Government will live to regret the decision, both in terms of the painting and of the reaction of the community. The fact is that there will be no National Gallery for many years in which to show the painting. This is a pity in a way because I think that more and more people in Australia would be able to make their judgment sooner. I believe that the Government is entitled to Supply. Under the parliamentary procedures here I believe that it is entitled to it today. As far as I am concerned I will vote accordingly to give Supply. 
If  Senator Wood  assures me of that, I certainly accept it. I do not like to see people being attacked without a chance to defend themselves. It goes on far too often in this place. As I have said, some people are critical of 'Blue Poles'. I repeat that I have not seen it, and I would not be a good judge. I suggest that many people who are criticising it have not seen it and that they might not be better judges than 1. 1 want to get down to the point of what this is all about.  Senator Wright  has invited me to change my mind. I have no intention of changing my mind. I do this for one reason only. I take no umbrage at the criticism which he has levelled. On a former occasion when this sort of thing happened we did not make any analysis of what the then Government was doing. We took the Government at its word that it was necessary for the normal functioning of the Government, and we passed the legislation through the 2 places in 8 or 9 minutes. The Opposition has not chosen to do that on this occasion. I have not accepted it because all the information I have is that if we send this measure back to another place and it accepts it all these things have to happen, whether it is the reprinting of the Bill or whatever it is. I am informed that, it could be tremendously embarrassing not to the Government but to the carrying out of the normal payments to public servants and the rest of it 
I believe that this Bill should be passed. I repeat that  Senator McManus  has made it possible for this Senate to do anything it likes about Blue Poles' or the whole gamut of the arts. All those who have made criticisms such as those made by  Senator Turnbull  can take advantage of the lead that  Senator McManus  has given. We have already made that decision. All these criticisms can come forward then. We are asking for the passage of this Bill as an emergency. I believe that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, experienced parliamentarian that he is, and because of the respect that he has for this institution, has taken the right line even though he condemns what we have done about 'Blue Poles'. He does not back away from that; he is quite unequivocal about it. But, as a parliamentarian, he says that the Commonwealth Government should be able to carry out its normal works and services. I agree with  Senator Wright  on one thing; that is, that this debate has gone long enough, far longer than we anticipated this morning, and far longer than was necessary. I suggest that the question ought to be put forthwith. 
I will be brief in reply because I do not intend to stray as far from the Bill as several Opposition members did.  Senator Wood  brought out some of the old shibboleths which might have been talked about in the 1 890s but which were never practised in this House. One of them is that the Senate is a States House. From very early in this century the Senate has been a Party House. Whether it is good or bad, that is the fact. He talked about States versus Territories, as though there is some inherent difference in them. A person is a person whether he lives in the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory or one of the States. As  Senator McLaren  pointed out, the moment a person moves from a State to a Territory he loses certain rights. He loses the right to vote at Senate elections and the right to vote in referenda. Then we heard this story: Where will we stop? We heard the old voice of reaction- 'We must not take one step forward; look where it might lead us'.  (Quorum formed).  I was dealing with the question which has been raised several times tonight about what happens to the other Territories if we give Senate representation to two of the Territories. Honourable senators opposite talked about giving representation to a Territory in Antarctica. If it were desired to give representation to any further Territories, a Bill would have to go through both Houses of Parliament. No sensible parliament would give representation to Heard Island which does not have anybody living on it. That is taking things to the extreme. 

 Senator Wright said that we should not be upsetting the fundamental constitutional concept.  Senator Wood  took this a little further and said that the constitutional situation is that senators represent people in the States. Section 122 of the Constitution is very clear. I will leave out a few words in the middle of that section because they are irrelevant to what I am about to say. With the deletion of those words that section states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any Territory . . . and may allow the representation of such Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
Those great people who wrote the Constitutionthe Constitution to which people tonight have displayed great adulation- realised at that time what the situation would be in the years ahead. Tonight the Government is relying on the Constitution and is putting forward a perfectly constitutional situation to meet the times in which we live. It seems strange that  Senator Wright,  who comes from Tasmania, should talk about what a bad thing this is. In Tasmania 239,058 people are enrolled. They are represented by 10 senators, 5 members of the House of Representatives, 35 members of the State House of Assembly and 19 Legislative Councillors. By simple division we find that there is one representative for every 3,464 people enrolled in Tasmania. The Parliament already has agreed that there should be an extra member for the Australian Capital Territory and when that Bill becomes operative it will mean that there will be 2 members of the House of Representatives each representing 48,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory. There is a big difference between 48,000 and 3,464 people. 
I do not want to go through all the side issues raised in this debate. The proposition is a simple one. It has been rejected by the Senate on one occasion. The original Bill went back to the House of Representatives and a new Bill is being considered tonight. The situation is a fairly simple one. There has been talk about all sorts of things, such as the thin edge of the wedge; that a Territory is something different; and that a person living in a Territory should be regarded as a second class citizen because he does not live in a State. All those sort of arguments boil down to one thing. The situation is that we have a bicameral system of government and Bills go through both Houses of the Parliament. In the House of Representatives there is a member representing the Australian Capital Territory and another member representing the Northern Territory. They can defend matters and put forward their points of view in that House, but when Bills come to this place their points of view are no longer heard. The matter is quite simple. The crux of the matter is that the Government wants to give to those 2 Territories some representation as is allowed and foreseen under the Constitution and the combined Opposition is saying that that is not to happen. It is as simple as that. 
There has been talk about abolishing the Senate and damaging the Senate. I cannot follow the logic of those arguments when the intention is to strengthen the Senate by putting more people in it. By some queer twist of the mind this logic comes out at the end of the machine: 'Ah, but by strengthening the Senate you really are weakening it and you are going to abolish if. Everybody knows the constitutional position perfectly well. It is almost impossible to get rid of the Senate. By passing this Bill we will be strengthening the Senate, not weakening it. I come back to the point that the position is very simple, apart from all the side issues introduced tonight. The 2 members in the House of Representatives who represent these 2 Territories can debate Bills affecting their areas. Is the Opposition going to allow the voice of those 2 Territories to be heard when such Bills come into the second part of the Parliament, the Senate? We say that the time has come for this, on a population basis and on the basis of equality. The Opposition says that that is not to be. We will leave the matter to the vote. I repeat that it is a simple proposition. It is a logical proposition. People have stood here and in the other place and said: 'Yes, we agree with it but we are not going to vote for it'. They say it is not the time. They say that this Bill is the thin edge of the wedge and that we will give the same thing to Heard Island or somewhere else. 
The proposition is simple. Before us tonight we have 2 Bills providing for 2 more senators.  Senator Wood  said that this should not be done to assist some political party. How will it assist a political party when under the proportional representation system it is absolutely certain that the representatives will come from each of the major parties? How can the honourable senator say that this Bill will assist any political party? The old subject of politics has been dragged in without very much logic. The situation is that these 2 Bills are designed simply to give Senate representation to both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. They do that and no more. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-The honourable senator has asked me: Is it not a fact that the newspapers stated something this morning? I have not read the newspapers this morning. I do not know. 
-The honourable senator must be joking if he thinks I am going to make any comments about what happened at a Caucus meeting. 
-As a Western Australian and as  Senator Durack  is from the same State I am amazed that he is taking umbrage at the fact that the gold mining industry will get some benefits which it was not going to get at the time of the Budget. I thought the honourable senator would have welcomed that tremendously. I do not know what answer he received from the Treasurer. It appears to me that the Premier of Western Australia has been so persuasive as to get  Mr Crean  to change his mind on this matter. For that the Treasurer should not be condemned. 
Here we are in a situation where Western Australians are getting something, and who is condemning them? Two Liberal Party senators from Western Australia. 
-Firstly, as honourable senators know, I refer all Treasury questions to the Treasurer. I do not think that this peculiar situation that we have of six of us trying to represent 21 Ministers in the other place ever works so that one can be really responsible for answers to questions, particularly those which relate to the Treasury. So when the answers come here, while the technical point is whether I lay them down the answers certainly come from the Treasurer. We seem to be accused of all sorts of things here. One is that this has been done in a terrible hurry, that we are doing it in a short space of time. But  Senator Withers  rightly points out that  Senator Durack  asked questions about it some time ago. The decision on gold mining upset all Western Australians.  Mr Tonkin  has been over to see the Prime Minister, and  Mr Collard,  in particular, has been working tremendously on it because it affects his electorate and, energetic member that he is, he has carried it forward. I come back to the point that all Western Australians should rejoice that we have made a better decision on this matter. Whether we have hurried it or not is not important, but the fact is that we did not hurry it, as  Senator Withers  points out in his question. 
-There is no doubt that the Government will have the taxation situation as it affects all sections of the community under constant surveillance and if it thinks changes should be made they will be made. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
22 May 1970. 
I am advised that hearings were held during the following periods: 14 July to 27 August 1970; 30 November to 1 1 December 1 970; 9 February to 2 April 1 97 1 ; 27 April 1 97 1 to 1 July 1971; 26 July to 4 December 1971; 15 February to 3 July 1972. 
The Commission has not yet reported. The report is being prepared and is expected to be presented early in 1 974. 
The figures are being completed. There is a considerable effort in doing this, and I will provide the honourable senator with the details as soon as possible. The figure expended by the Australian Government to 30 June 1973 is in the order of S62 1,000. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) (i) Bread; (ii) Petrol; (iii) Beer. 
(i) Medical Practitioners' Services; (ii) Real Estate Agents 'Services. 
In each case  Mr Enderby  when Minister declared the goods or service as a necessary prerequisite to enable the Controller of Prices to fix a maximum price in respect of that good or service. 
This action was taken in accordance with the Government's policy of price justification. 
From time to time there is a flare-up of fighting in Vietnam. It is a very uneasy peace. Nobody is completely happy about it. Whether Vietnam is on the verge of full scale fighting I do not know. I do not think that anybody else does. The people to whom I have talked when I have been overseas do not seem to know any more about the matter than we do, and I even talked to representatives of South Vietnam on one occasion. We certainly would take initiatives where we saw that we could take them. But, as I have explained before, we were not in Vietnam at the time of the cease fire; the previous Government had withdrawn the troops. Therefore, we were not a party to any of the accords in Paris. Those people who were have a greater lien on taking initiatives than we have. I share all the worries of  Senator McManus.  It is an uneasy peace. Fighting is breaking out from time to time. I have talked to many people about the matter and they cannot tell me very much more than that. A lot of manoeuvring is going on. Whether this will break out into full scale fighting or what the result will be nobody seems to be able to tell. 
Yes, certainly. I just thought I was helping by sending the honourable senator a letter containing the latest information. Would the honourable senator like to table it? He could do that if he likes or, if he would rather, he can give it to me and I will read it out. We can follow any course the honourable senator likes. All he seems to want is the answer to a question when that answer has already been supplied. 
-Senator Lawrie had asked me what was the attitude of the Commissioner of Taxation when dealing with the estate of a deceased person. The honourable senator wanted to know whether the Commissioner would value the land at the rural rate or whether he would take into account what I took to be the potential of the land for urban development. I see that the honourable senator agrees with that. Although that inference could be drawn because of something that happened the other night, the honourable senator did not say in his question that that is what he meant, but makes clear now that that is what was in his mind. My letter to the honourable senator reads as follows: 
Dear  Senator Lawrie, 
On 8 November, 1973 you asked in the Senate whether rural freehold land in the Australian Capital Territory is valued for death duty purposes at what it is considered to be worth as an agricultural proposition or at what it would bring in the open market as a future urban proposition, that is, at market value as determined by sales evidence. 
The Treasurer has now advised me that under the provisions of the Estate Duty Assessment Act, duty is assessed on the value of assets owned by a deceased person, the courts having held over the years that 'value ' in the context of this Act means the market value at the date of death. 
It follows then that a property, whether it be a rural freeholding in the Australian Capital Territory or any other property, must be assessed at its market value as determined by reliable sales evidence at the date of death. Such sales evidence will of course be an expression of the market place assessment of all the future benefits of ownership. 
Yours sincerely, 
It is very nicely signed ' D. R. Willesee '. 
-Of course the Government is quite aware of what is going on in the oil world. Because of that, we have appointed a special envoy,  Mr Ian  Haig, to attend to such matters. He has returned to this country and we are awaiting a report from him. I think that it would be premature to make any decisions or forecasts until we have that report from  Mr Haig. 
The question seems to boil down to this: Evidently a book in relation to previous years is in existence and the honourable senator would like it brought up to date. I will refer the question to the Treasurer. 
-On 24 October 1973  Senator Webster  asked  Senator Murphy  a question without notice concerning undistributed profits tax of private companies. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Treasurer announced on 14 September 1973 that he proposes a flat retention allowance of 50 per cent for trading income, rather than have the allowance in respect of that income decrease as at present to 45 per cent on the second $10,000 of income and 40 per cent thereafter. The Income Tax Assessment Bill to give effect to Budget income tax measures provides for this change. It is not proposed to change the 10 per cent retention allowance for property income or the rule that there be no retention allowance for dividends that a private company receives from other private companies. 
There is no simple inverse relationship between the tax rate on private companies and the desirable levels of the retention allowance and the rate of tax on undistributed income. So far as the latter is concerned, its purpose is not, in the normal course of events, to collect additional revenue from private companies; its purpose rather is to discourage the use of private companies to avoid the appropriate level of personal income tax on income to which shareholders are ultimately entitled and from which they benefit. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
May 5, 1970 
b) The terms of reference are as follows: 
1 ) Taking into account existing world technology in relation to drilling for petroleum and safety precautions relating thereto, what risk is there of an oil or gas leak in exploratory and production drilling for petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef? 
What would be the probable effects of such an oil or gas leak and of the subsequent remedial measures on: 
the coral reefs themselves 
the coastline 
the ecological and biological aspects of life in the area? 
Are there localities within the Area of the Great Barrier Reef and, if so, what are their geographical limits, wherein the effects of an oil or gas leak would cause so little detriment that drilling there for petroleum might be permitted? 
If exploration or drilling for petroleum in any locality within the area of the Great Barrier Reef is permitted, are existing safety precautions already prescribed or otherwise laid down for that locality regarded as adequate and, if not, what conditions should be imposed before such exploration or drilling could take place? 
What are the probable benefits accruing to the State of Queensland and other parts of the Commonwealth from exploration or drilling for petroleum in the Area of the Great Barrier Reef and the extent of those benefits? 
I have been informed that the Report should be presented early in 1974. 
The figures are being completed. There is a considerable effort in doing this and I will provide the honourable senator with a dissection of the total expenditure as soon as possible. Expenditure by the Australian Government to 30 June 1973 is of the order of $62 1 ,000. 
Not to my knowledge did the Prime Minister ask the People's Republic of China to play a greater role in South East Asia. 
I understand that it is the original Cape Canaveral. I do not know why the United States authorities decided to restore the name. 
-I will get the details and let the honourable senator know. 

For the information of honourable senators I present the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1972. 
-It is a strange sort of question, asking me to give an English lesson on what words mean. 
-I am the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why do you not take something from Shakespeare and ask me to explain that to you? 
In the field of foreign affairs one is for ever trying to think as far ahead as one can and analysing the impact on one country of something which may happen in another country. In that regard one is looking as far as one can see into the future not only in relation to the People's Republic of China and Japan but also in relation to every other country that is of interest to Australia. 
-The honourable senator asks whether trade negotiations were conducted with  Dr Cairns.  I think that if our Minister for Overseas Trade went overseas he would deal with the trade Minister in the other country concerned. So I assume the answer to that question is yes. I do not remember whether  Mr Pai  came to Australia and I do not know whether he has been purged. 
-I would say no. It is always very dangerous to take 2 countries of any sort and claim that the policies of one are similar to those of the other. The honourable senator does not say whether he is referring to internal, fiscal, developmental, mineral or natural resources policies. It is a pretty wide question to answer. The honourable senator wants me to give an interpretation of what the Prime Minister meant. I have already declined to do that. 
-I am aware of the Arab oil situation. As I said yesterday, our special envoy is now back in Australia and we will be receiving his report. I understand from what has been said by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that there is no danger of Australia being denied oil in the foreseeable future. So I do not think the last part of the honourable senator's question calls for an answer. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Australian Fire Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I want to inform the Senate that I have received a message from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to announce that the honourable J. J. Dedman died today and to give the details to honourable senators. The tentative arrangements are for a State funeral to be held at 11 a.m. on Monday. This will be confirmed by 10 o'clock in the morning.  Mr Dedman  is survived by his wife who is at present in hospital, one son and a daughter,  Mrs Rogers.  I thought that the Senate might like to know how far the Prime Minister's Department has gone with the arrangements. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 7.4 p.m. 
-I saw the report. In fact, I have before me the report in the 'Canberra Times' of  Mr Marshall  Green's speech made yesterday. It states: 
Australia learnt of the world wide United States alert during the Middle East war 'moments' after it was implemented, the United States Ambassador,  Mr Green,  said today. 
We did know after it went through North West Cape that the alert was on. But at no stage were we informed offically by the Americans that the alert was on. 
Following an appeal by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for permanent resettlement opportunities for refugees from Chile, the Australian Government has responded that it was ready to accept applications without quota restrictions from those refugees who are genuinely interested in settling in Australia. Such applications will be sympathetically considered in terms of normal migration criteria, and passage assistance will be granted to those eligible for it. This opportunity to apply for migration to Australia is open both to those refugees who fall within the United Nations High Commissioner's mandate in Chile and to others who are sometimes referred to as refugees but who do not meet the definition of that mandate- for example, non-Chileans who wish to or have been asked to leave Chile, and Chileans who do not wish to remain under the present regime. The Australian Embassy in Santiago has been instructed to co-operate fully with the United Nations High Commissioner's representative there in arrangements for implementing this policy. Neither I nor my Department has received any reports of applicants encountering difficulties. The Australian Government has placed no obstacles in their path, having stipulated only that they fulfil the normal migration requirements. If the honourable senator has any details of obstacles encountered by prospective migrants I would be happy to have these cases investigated. I might say additionally to  Senator Mulvihill  that I have also asked our Embassy in Santiago to be especially alert to see that no undue obstacles are encountered by people who may wish to migrate to Australia. 
-Yes, following the honourable senator's question yesterday, I do recall  Mr Pai  arriving here. I did not meet him. I think I was overseas at that time. I went away in late April and came back in early June, if my memory serves me right. I understand that  Mr Pai  has been dropped from the Politbureau in China. If there are any further details that may interest the honourable senator I will ascertain them and let him know. That is the general situation as I know it. 
Reunification talks started about 12 months ago and they had badly bogged down prior to the United Nations General Assembly meeting. Two propositions were put forward. The North Koreans were asking that one body on the United Nations would represent one Korea. The South Koreans put up the proposal that both North Korea and South Korea should be made members of the United Nations. Australia supported the South Korean proposal because with the realities of the position that would have been the best outcome. An announcement was made yesterday that both sides will not pursue their claims, that they agree that the unification of the country should be achieved independently without reliance on outside force or interference; that unification should be achieved by peaceful means without recourse to the use of arms against the other side and that full national unity should be promoted. I think this is a welcome situation. There is a promise to resume the talks on reunification. So instead of a situation developing which could have resulted in a head-on confrontation, behind the scenes or in committee prior to the United Nations General Assembly vote, both North Korea and 
South Korea agreed that further talks should take place, and they laid down these parameters. 
-I do not know what was in  Mr Whitlam  's mind when he made this statement. He said quite a lot of things. 
If the honourable senator wants to find out then he should go and ask him. This morning I looked at the question that was asked yesterday by  Senator Withers  in case I had not treated him fairly in my answer.  Senator Withers  asked: 
Will the Minister explain in some detail the exact meaning of the expression used by the Prime Minister. 
How am I going to do that? I have my own views on our relationship with China and with all other nations.  Senator Sim  is not asking me for my views. He is asking me what was in the Prime Minister's mind. This is quite an impossible question to answer. I have no intention of going ahead and trying to explain each word to every honourable senator opposite. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950 I present the annual reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Funds. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table a paper setting out details of my attendance at 4 international conferences during my absence from the Senate from 27 September to 24 October 1 973. 
The matters that  Senator McManus  raised have gone into Hansard and we will certainly look at them. The Senate will remember that he said there is quite a large amount of expenditure going through government channels, which has not been looked at by the Senate. Evidently this has been going on since time immemorial. He did point out that this Government is improving on that situation and should look further at it. I do not want to enter into a long debate about the things that  Senator Hannan  said. 
-I would certainly like to debate those things with him if he would be a little more truthful and a little more accurate and if he did not wander so much around the place. 
He says that it is identifiable in the Press. The very man who accuses the Press of telling lies now brings forward what it says as gospel. I heard him say that  Mr Zvogbo  was a man who had gone across the border into Southern Rhodesia and murdered people. 
I have seen no evidence of this at all. I did meet  Mr Zvogbo  when he was here and I refer to an answer I gave to a question asked by  Senator Greenwood,  who was interested in the matter at the time. He asked me clear questions about it and I gave him clear answers. He talked about people who were murdering and who were armed insurrectionists in Africa. This is a very well known fact of life in Africa and in other parts of the world. There are people who believe that they are not being given a fair go. They are being denied the right to vote and therefore say that they are going to make improvements in the government. If there is no chance for people to vote in an election how do they change their government? We have seen the situation in a country close to our own quite recently where the people have taken matters into their own hands- 'revolution ' is too big a wordand have forced the resignation of governments and so forth. I quote now the relevant part of the answer I gave to  Senator Greenwood.  I stated: 
As a result of a question which  Senator Greenwood  asked me last night I asked  Mr Zvogbo  whether he had been in gaol, how many times he had been in gaol and all about the matter. Last night when I said that there was no proof of this man being a terrorist, or words to that effect,  Senator Greenwood  interjected and said that this man had been in gaol.  Mr Zvogbo  informed me that he was first arrested and charged with carrying an illegal document. The illegal document was a statement which he had made before the Committee of Seventeen, which is now the Committee of Twenty-four, of the United Nations. It was a copy of his testimony. He was aquitted by the court. The second time that he was arrested was, I think, for a seditious utterance. Seditious' may be the wrong word, but I think that that was the charge. It was at a political rally when he said, in effect, as he told me, that violence breeds violence. He was charged with making a seditious utterance, if that was the charge. He was convicted. He appealed through all the appellate courts but lost the case and served 12 months in gaol. The day that he was released from gaol, on his information, he was banned to a section of Rhodesia. He was later gaoled for 7 years, without charge and, therefore, without trial. 
That is the only thing I have ever put on record about this man. I put it on record again because  Senator Hannan  has roamed very widely about this matter. I looked at this subject because, though I may have misunderstood him as I listened to what he said, I thought he said he had a question on  Mr Zvogbo.  I did not see it but if there is one I will certainly look at it for him. 
-To the AttorneyGeneral. I did not know of it. The honourable senator said that it was a long time ago. If this had been in my bailiwick, I certainly intended to obtain an answer for him. Honourable senators have to realise that when we get on to the question of foreign affairs there always is a tendency to talk about the world or a country as we want it to be. We would all like things to be like that. The fact is that in our relationships we have to face up to the realism of the situation. The honourable senator said some very extravagant things which I do not think he ought to have said. He has no proof that these people are murderers. No worse charge can be made against a person. The honourable senator said these things without the persons concerned having any chance of defending themselves against the charge and without even bringing forward reliable information. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate the amounts required for expenditure in 1973-74 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund other than those amounts provided by special appropriations and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1973-74. The amounts sought for each department are shown in detail in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these appropriations being $3,808,140,000. This Bill seeks an authorisation of $2,2 1 5,848,000, the balance of $1,592,292,000 having already been authorised under the Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74, $1,556,348,000, and Supply Act (No. 3) 1973-74, $35,944,000. The expenditure program of the Government was outlined in the Budget Speech and the Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year ending on 30 June 1974' which was referred to the Senate Estimates committees on 13 September for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1973-74 on: 
The construction of public works and buildings; 
The acquisition of sites and buildings; 
Advances and loans; 
Items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
Grants to the States under section 96 of the Construction; 
New policies not authorised by special legislation. 
Details of the amount sought by each department are shown in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these appropriations being $1,261,534,000. Of this $404,973,000 was authorised by the Supply Act (No. 2) 1973-74; the balance of $856,561,000 being authorised by this Bill. The main features of the proposed expenditure were outlined in the Budget Speech. The Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Certain Proposed Expenditure in Respect of the Year Ending on 30 June 1974' which was referred to the Senate Estimates comittees on 13 September for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I shall be brief in reply. I thank honourable senators for their comments. As they indicated, the capital grants are designed to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to bear. The grant now represents a significant proportion, almost onethird, of their loan program.  Senator Cotton  mentioned the State railways as an area deserving of study. He made this comment in the detailed context of having a fresh look at the whole question. It is of course open to the States to pass money to the railways and I understand that one State at least has done so. So to some extent the railways have the benefit. But the honourable senator touched on a very vital part of the situation because this Government has already offered to take over the railway systems operated by the States and this is only an indication that we are aware of the very point raised by  Senator Cotton.  There is no substantial opposition to the Bill; there was no opposition in the comments made, which were quite proper on a Bill such as this, and I am grateful to honourable senators for their remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
in reply- I thank the Senate for its handling of this Bill. There are 2 points to which I will refer. Firstly,  Senator Greenwood  raised the question of cost. Let me tell him that I am painfully aware of the cost. In the second reading speech I said that certain provisions:  . . will preserve or improve existing rights and terms and conditions of service of the present locally engaged High Commission staff, who will all continue in employment. 
I might clarify that a little by saying that that is at the immediate time. Obviously, at the moment they will come under the normal Public Service Board requirements. The employment of staff in the future will be under the Public Service Act. Staff will be subject to all the usual provisions relating to termination of employment and so on, as are all locally engaged staff at other Australian missions. They will come under exactly the same conditions.  Senator Greenwood's  question about costs reminded me of the old idea that everybody is there and there forever. Obviously it is not meant to be so and I sought to put the record clear. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
-I will refer it to the Minister whom I represent in this place and find out for the honourable senator. 
-I will find out what I can and I will let  Senator Rae  know as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard: 
in reply- I just tell  Senator Wright  that I shall make a point of drawing the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to his remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
in reply- I promise  Senator Wright  that, if  Senator Wriedt  is not aware of the matter which was raised, it certainly will be brought to his attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
-I think the figure is correct. As I remember it, $10m was given to Queensland. As to the rest of the question, the final decision will have to rest with the Grants Commission. I am not quite sure of the position. I suppose that it is a little unusual to take into account referendum expenditure; On the basis of what some of the States' representatives have told me, the Grants Commission is pretty eagleeyed in watching what the States spend in other areas. 
Certain parameters are laid down in relation to the recognition of any country. Whether the matter of dual nationality can be taken out of context like that, I am not sure. I do not think it can be. We have discussed the whole matter of dual nationality in this chamber on several occasions. We know the difficulties in relation to it, and there are international conventions applying to it. It does cause tremendous problems not only in regard to Greece but also other countries. As I have said many times, in spite of the international convention, we have always insisted on humanitarian grounds that our officers should have access to anybody in trouble, particularly if a person is under arrest in any country, irrespective of how minor or how major the charge against that person may be. 
-The honourable senator asked me whether the real aggressor in the Middle East is the Soviet Union. I do not think that the position is quite as simple as that. 
-There is a difference of opinion. The honourable senator thinks that the real aggressor, wholly, and solely, is the Soviet 
Union. I think that there is a much more complicated situation. There is no doubt that for a long time the Soviet Union has been backing the Arab States and has given some war materials to them. Also, the Americans have flown materials into Israel. These are the facts of the case. There are rights and wrongs on both sides involved in this conflict. Until those rights and wrongs are removed completely we will not have peace in the Middle East. I made it very clear, as the platform of the Australian Labor Party makes it very clear, in my speech the other night on the motion moved by  Senator Kane  that there are 2 main ingredients to a solution of the Middle East situation: Firstly, the countries in that area must realise that Israel has a perfect right to live in peace and harmony behind secured borders. Secondly, Israel must leave the occupied territories which she holds at the present moment. 
-I think that the remark to which  Senator Sim  has referred ought to be put into proper context. It was made in Peking on 31 October in response to a toast by Premier Chou En-lai at his welcoming banquet for the Australian party. As I understand it, the criticism that arises is that there seems to be an insinuation that the Prime Minister's remark implies uncritical support and gives undue weight to our relations with the People 's Republic of China. I have been trying to analyse the remark and people have asked me to analyse it. I have been asked questions on what was in the Prime Minister's mind. I am afraid that I still cannot answer that. But I can give the honourable senator some information that has relationship to the matter. I think that the criticisms ignore the context of the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister's preceding remarks included the following observations: 
Our concern is no longer exclusively with nations in far removed areas of the globe. Now it is with all nations and particularly those with whom we share a common environment and common interests and with whom we seek relationships of equality. In Peking today we give expression to our new international outlook. With no nation is our new aspiration symbolised more than it is with China, a power not only in our region but in the world. 
It is clear from the context of the Prime Minister's remarks that the Government's concern is to seek relationships of equality with all nations rather than to concentrate on relations with just a few. The establishment of diplomatic relations with China was one of the first foreign policy initiatives of the new Government and it is thus a convenient symbol of this new international outlook. 
The resources policy that we have outlined has been a fairly broad one. It was talked over with Japan on the recent visit of the Prime Minister to that country. There is no question of politics in our resources policy. What we said was that our minerals ought to be sold at somewhere near world prices, that wherever possible we ought to have a greater proportion of Australian equity in our minerals industry and, where possible, have a processing of those into secondary and tertiary levels of export. That is a very clear understanding and I do not see any politics in it at all. I think that we are entitled to use our resources for the benefit of Australians. 
Yes, we are aware of the data recording processes of Sweden. As a matter of fact, last year or earlier this year-  Mr President,  you may be able to prompt me on this. 
-No, I do not think it is expressing pious platitudes. 
-No. I said the other day that I would send a special message to Chile to see that no undue barriers were put in the way of people wanting to come to Australia. At that stage there were some refugees who wanted to come here. I will check the matter out and let the honourable senator know the outcome. 
-For quite a long time there have been these dangers in regard to oil supplies throughout the world. The position is that a small group of countries have oil and they are located in a highly explosive area. The world has been expecting the present situation in one form or another for a very long time. Yes, I understand that pressures are going to be brought and I understand the dangers that may arise if these boycotts extend for a long period of time. The reduction of oil supplies, as I see it, is not related solely to the Middle East war. Some countries in the Middle East are withholding supplies for conservation purposes. All these things are adding up to a very difficult position. The energy crisis has been forecast now for many years. It has been known that we can run out of a lot of the things that supply us with energy today. I saw something of this situation in New York only a few months ago before the crisis started and before the embargoes were put on. There was to be a reduction of oil to the west coast of America merely because of pollution. So the whole situation is a devil's brew. It is a worrying situation and one on which we have to keep an eye every minute of the day. 
-I am not sure of the exact distribution of voting at the meeting of non-aligned countries at Algiers to which the honourable senator has referred. Our attitude in relation to Cambodia has been that the Cambodians are the people who should decide their own fate. Because of that attitude we have not taken sides in any way. In relation to the voting in the United Nations on procedural motions, we have voted with the Government with which we have contact, namely, the Lon Nol Government. As the honourable senator knows the military situation has been deadlocked for a period of time now because of the wet weather. It is quite a perennial situation that at about this time of the year as the wet weather moves away military activity commences. But everyone is hopeful that this year the situation in Vietnam where there is some sort of peace will flow over to Cambodia and that meaningful negotiation might take place. There is already one in Laos which has a coalition government. At least the fighting has stopped and hopes are being held out that that situation will obtain in Cambodia. 
Yes. As I am sure  Senator Sim  knows, we are contributing quite substantially to South Vietnam. What that country does with that money is its business. 
I am not sure of that. But generally we allow the South Vietnamese to do what they think fit with the money. We try not to interfere in what they do with it. If this involves a separate fund, I can check on the matter to see how we weld it into the aid program. 
-I fancy that I have some papers on this matter, but I do not think I have them with me at the moment. If I do have them here I will answer the honourable senator's question at the end of question time. 
-I will refer the question to the Treasurer. 
Earlier in the day in answer to a question from  Senator Donald 
Cameron I said that I did not have the information he sought. I can now inform him that on 22 November the Minister assisting the Treasurer made a statement on behalf of the Treasurer which was relevant to this question. I think I can best answer the question by noting that the statement included, amongst other things, the following points: 
1) In bringing equity into the industry's taxation affairs, the Government does not want to change the form and character of the industry. 
Representations on the matter appear to have been based on fears of the industry that the deferred tax to be collected over the phasing-in period would be well over double the $15m estimated by the Coombs task force. The Treasurer understands that those worries have now been removed, or at least reduced immeasurably. 
In administering the phasing-in, the usual sympathy afforded by the administration will apply, and no arbitrary or over-theoretical standards of valuation will be imposed. While no serious problems are expected, if any unforeseen circumstances arise which result in the position being different from those outlined, the wine making industry may be assured that the situation will be reviewed sympathetically. 
I have an answer also to a question asked by  Senator Durack.  I had this answer for him yesterday but it was in the form of a letter. A complaint was made last week that evidently he does not like receiving letters in reply to his questions and would rather have answers given in the Senate. 
-No. A complaint was made last week, so I had the letter stopped. Otherwise the honourable senator would have received the letter yesterday. On 22 November  Senator Durack  asked me a question without notice about the South Vietnamese War College delegation. The following information is provided in reply to the honourable senator's question: In July of this year the Commandant of the War College raised with our Embassy in Saigon a proposal which he had put to the South Vietnam Defence Ministry that he and IS members of the College should visit Australia as part of a tour including Indonesia and New Zealand. The South Vietnamese Ambassador followed up the inquiry during a call at the Department of 
Foreign Affairs on 2 August. It was suggested to him on a personal basis that his Government might give further consideration to the request before putting it formally. Our civil involvement in assistance to South Vietnam would continue to run at a high level, but our military disengagement was both recent and definite and a formal request would risk a negative answer. The Ambassador replied that he would recommend that the idea of a visit should not be formally pressed as the timing would seem inopportune. No more has been heard of the matter. 
The last South Vietnamese War College visit to Australia was in 1970. As for the proposed 1973 tour, we have no knowledge of any South Vietnamese approach to the Indonesians. I understand that the New Zealand Government's position was similar to our own. I have no information about movements to Japan or Israel. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1966, 1 present the tenth annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report by the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee on the level of premium rates recommended for the Australian Capital Territory. I make it clear that it is a recommendation and that it has not been adopted as yet. 
On 6 November 1973,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson asked the Minister representing the Treasurer a question without notice, dealing with the current inquiry by the Medical Fees Tribunal into specialist fees- in particular those relating to anaesthetists. The honourable senator sought qualifications to Press  reports which had suggested that, in obtaining evidence for presentation to the Tribunal, there was access to the income tax returns of private individuals. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An investigation of medical fees received by anaesthetists was not made in the Australian Taxation Office. However, in 1971 the Taxation Office conducted a statistical survey of the incomes and deductions of medical practitioners, and the results of that survey included information on medical practitioners who fell into several specialty groups including the group anaesthetists. 
A summary of the results of the medical practitioners survey was made available to the Medical Fees Tribunal, but these survey figures of course did not include details of individual taxpayers' incomes and deductions. The Commissioner of Taxation, with whom I have discussed the question, expressed grave concern at the manner in which the matter had been reported by some sections of the press. He wished it to be understood that there had been no access by persons outside the Australian Taxation Office to income tax returns and that - details of individual taxpayers' affairs were not included in the survey results that were supplied to the Medical Fees Tribunal. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Reports on the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1972 were tabled on 21 November 1973. 
-The honourable senator's question contains a lot of detail. I know something of the matter. I think a lot of the detail contained in his question is correct. However, I think I should obtain a detailed answer for  Senator Kane. 
-Yes, I take note of the fact, although I do not think it is relevant, that we are approaching the festive season. I do not quite know what the situation is with regard to Ben Bella at the moment, but I will certainly find out and let the honourable senator know. 
Yes, I have seen the reports. The answer is no, there is no truth in them whatsoever. 
-South Australia and Queensland are two. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As this measure has been before the Senate on a previous occasion, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
-I have not yet checked whether that is an accurate report of what happened. It is not, of course, an attempt and there never has been an attempt by  Dr J.  F. Cairns to take over the foreign policy of the Government. The fact of the matter is that he was, as I understand it, at a dinner in Hanoi with some people whom he had invited to Australia some time ago. I think  Dr Tien  is the name of one of them. It was fairly natural that they would return hospitality to him. What he said in that regard is his personal opinion. He has had a very strong opinion on the matter. 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
-I do not know what the ignorant guffaws are about. The fact of the matter is that his attitude on the Vietnam war is very well known. It is strongly held by him. I think he has written two or three books on the subject. Of course honourable senators opposite disagree with him. They have disagreed with him over the years. To try to link this up in the way that they are trying to do is completely wrong. 
In dealing with the question of aid, as honourable senators know- I have said it many times- the Government's policy is to contribute to the post-war reconstruction of all countries in Indo China. The aid that has gone to North Vietnam so far has consisted of wool and roofing iron. I do not think that those commodities would be used in any way for the killing of opposition soldiers. We are disturbed about the whole question in Vietnam. There have been accusations by both sides of violation of the agreement - 
We are not in a position to say which side has initiated these breaches. 

 - Mr President, I think that I have answered the question. Honourable senators opposite seem to be doing pretty well themselves. 
It will hardly be necessary in those States which are already paying that bonus. They have preceded the Commonwealth in this field. It is not a very revolutionary thing that we are doing. It is paid by a large section of private industry. That is why we have followed, as is commonly done with public servants in Canberra. The States have already beaten us to it. 
-I do not remember whether the question was asked on 23 October but I do remember the suggestion that this matter be passed on to the Treasurer. I do not physically walk down and give the Treasurer such information. My staff normally handles these things. I regret that an answer has not been received. I will try to get it as soon as possible. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
$2.5m in 1973-74 (for Government Departments- not including statutory authorities). 
$26.2m in 1973-74 (not including statutory authorities). 
As the Honourable  Senator will  be aware from answers provided in response to previous inquiries by him, the Public Service Board has had under review for some time the provisions of Public Service Regulation 84. This Regulation governs the class of travelling accommodation to which Australian public servants are entitled. To vary existing conditions e.g. to restrict the use of first class air travel- would require amendment of the Regulation. The review has not yet been concluded. The Board has been consulting the Permanent Heads of departments on the appropriate air travel standards for journeys by Australian public servants by air within Australia and overseas, and is pursuing with the interested policy departments the implications of restricting the use by public servants of first class air travel. The  Senator will  be aware that the Board also has an obligation to consult staff associations before final decisions in the matter are reached, paying due regard to the industrial implications. 
-On 18 September 1973,  Senator Wright  asked me as the Minister representing the Treasurer a question without notice, seeking confirmation that the effective trading bank overdraft rate of interest prevailing now is 9.5 per cent. He also asked whether there is any differential in favour of primary industry or whether 9.5 per cent is the rate of interest currently being charged to primary producers by trading banks. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The rate of 9.5 per cent is the maximum overdraft rate which banks may charge on loans drawn under limits of less than $50,000, but not all such loans carry the maximum rate. A maximum rate has not been established for loans drawn against limits of $50,000 or more since Febrary 1972-interest rates on these loans are left to negotiation between banks and their customers. 
As regards the second part of the question, the Governor of the Reserve Bank on 14 September announced that: "For some years banks have, at the request of the authorities, offered concessional rates on loans in a number of areas. In the light of the buoyant conditions new prevailing throughout the economy it is no longer appropriate for this request to be maintained." Accordingly, subject to the maximum overdraft rate where applicable, the rate of interest charged on loans to primary producers will be negotiated by banks wholly on their own assessments of credit worthiness and other factors associated with the borrowing. 
-On 27 November 1973,  Senator McLaren  asked the following question, without notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the National Times' of 19-24 November which refers to the fact that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, used a light aircraft to fly to the town of Pinaroo in South Australia to attend a Liberal Party dinner. Will the Minister investigate the cost of using this aircraft and also the whole cost of the trip by  Mr Lynch  to attend a Liberal Country League dinner. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The use of charter aircraft is not regarded as a normal means of air transport. However, as there were no commercial air services to Pinaroo I approved the use of a charter aircraft by  Mr Lynch  and two members of his staff at a cost of $108. As  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lynch  has the use of official car transport at any time. In this particular instance the cost involved was $ 100.56. 
in reply- I thank the 2 spokesmen,  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Webster  for their comments, and the Senate for putting this Bill through as speedily as possible. It was introduced very late in the session and I appreciate what honourable senators have done. The Bill does not alter greatly the little worries that  Senator Webster  has. Exchange control has been used for many years in connection with investments abroad. This Bill has been brought in to do exactly what has been said. We are trying to tighten up the haemorrhage of the capital flowing out of Australia. Everybody agrees that there is a gap and that it ought to be plugged. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 -Yes, Dr Cairns did attend a luncheon or a dinner or some sort of entertainment given by the Vietnamese Provisional Revolutionary Government. The PRG, of course, was one of the parties that sat around the table in Paris and entered into agreements on the cease fire. As the honourable senator well knows, we have diplomatic relations with North Vietnam and South Vietnam but not with the PRG. Whether it was undiplomatic for  Dr Cairns  to attend the reception is a matter which I think only  Dr Cairns  can answer. I simply repeat what I said yesterday: In  Dr Cairns  you have a man who has been deeply involved in the whole question of the Vietnam war right from its early stages. He has written a couple of books about it. He was the host to the Vietnamese through an organisation to which he belongs when they came to this country in the early stages. During his visit, incidentally, he has told all the people involved that we are very concerned to support the implementation of the Paris agreements, that we want to maintain a very even handed policy in relation to both Saigon and Hanoi and that we would be critical of cease-fire violations by either side. 
-If honourable senators opposite were to have a look at the comments of leading Asian statesmen in recent times they would find that they give the lie direct to  Mr Warner's  allegations. There are several examples. For instance, General Romulo of the Philippines said when he was in Australia recently that Australia had begun to orientate itself to Asia in a decisive way and that his respect and admiration for Australia had been greatly enhanced.  Mr Malik  said several things; and so on. I am not going to talk about them. It is very easy for political journalists to criticise and to say that we are suddenly reversing decisions and upsetting people. I have no doubt that some of the countries of the world, particularly the big ones, have had to take another breath and do not like the fact that for the first time in its history Australia is going to have an independent stance in foreign affairs. Some of the big countries can no longer take it that we are automatically going to follow them in whatever they do. They ought to be mature enough- I believe that they are mature enough- to understand that that is the situation. That does not mean that we are going to be bad friends with them. It does not mean that we are going to disagree with everything they say. We are going to reverse what the previous Government did. We are to take an independent stance. At long last we are going to put the rights of the Australian people before the interests of any other government in the world, irrespective of which government it is. 
-Almost but not quite all Australian aid is given in the form of grants. We do not make loans. We give it and that is the end of it. So if the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, is talking about loans I take it that the matter has been raised with him in some special form. That would be not a complete departure but largely a departure from what we do. In relation to this question of aid to North Vietnam, if anything specific has been raised I am not really in a position to give any information until I talk to  Dr Cairns  about it. As the honourable senator knows our approach to the whole IndoChina situation is to give aid, irrespective of countries, when the war is at such a stage that we can give aid to them. As the honourable senator knows we are already giving aid to both North Vietnam and South Vietnam. In fact, we are giving aid to 4 countries to what extent we can. The only North Vietnamese aid that has gone forward so far is the aid I referred to yesterdaythat is, wool and roofing iron to the tune of $660,000. The budgeted amount for South Vietnam this year- we are rolling much better there because of our history- is about $4.5m. Historically we have been giving aid to this area for a long time. As for the question of loans, that would be a bit outside what we are doing. I really cannot tell the honourable senator very much until I talk specifically with  Dr Cairns. 
-I have not seen the report to which  Senator Sim  alludes. I think that I have said before that it is tremendously difficult to prove any of these allegations in the situation in Vietnam. Both sides make allegations about breaking the ceasefire and so on. That happens not only in that area but throughout the world wherever there is conflict. We can only do what we can to insist that the Vietnamese go back to the Paris agreements and try to maintain them. There is a flimsy peace in that area at the moment and if it is broken the consequences will spread far beyond the 2 Vietnams. It undoubtedly will affect the Laotian situation and will make the peace position in Cambodia all the more dangerous. I am afraid it is not of very much good to take one side or the other, or to try to analyse every allegation that is made because the number runs into several thousands. 
In answering a question earlier today I said that I was not sure what  Dr Cairns  had said about this matter. I said also that our general approach to the question of aid is to give it in grant form and not in loan form. We are probably one of the leading countries in following this practice. We think that overall it is the best course. I think both the previous Government and this Government have found that it works out better when aid is given in that form. The honourable senator asks whether what is suggested is sound economics. I do not know; it is a fairly hypothetical question. If the North Vietnamese mentioned the question of loans in their discussions on aid with  Dr Cairns-  I am sure that the question of aid would have come up because it has come up before; I have talked to them about it- this is a matter about which I would have to talk to  Dr Cairns.  The honourable senator said something about aggression in his question. As I have said, the matter of aid is not being related at all to what is going on in the area or to the type of government with which we are dealing. If the peace breaks down altogether then the giving of aid will become impossible and the North Vietnamese will be the worse off for it. But aid will not be used as a political weapon at any time while this Government is in office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to place beyond legal doubt the arrangements for taxation screening of applications to the exchange control authorities in relation to transactions involving tax havens. Screening arrangements of this kind were first approved by the previous Government when last year it relaxed the conditions for portfolio investment overseas by Australian residents. Although the fact was not publicised at the time, the relaxation was on terms that approval to a proposed investment would be withheld if it involved tax avoidance or evasion. More recently, and as announced in a statement made on 25 October 1973 by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  the screening arrangements have been applied at his direction to the whole range of transactions with persons in the New Hebrides. The consequence is that requisite exchange control approval may be withheld if the Reserve Bank does not sight evidence that, in effect, the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that the transaction does not in any way involve or assist or would be associated with avoidance or evasion of Australian tax, whether by the applicant or anybody else. 
The view has now been expressed in some quarters that there is not adequate legal backing for these arrangements. It is not conceded that there is an absence of legal authority, but the Government feels that in a matter as important as this there ought not be any avoidable uncertainty as to the legal efficacy of the screening procedures. While that is our direct objective in this measure, its introduction also serves as another expression of our determination to stamp out tax avoidance practices whenever we are able to do so. Accordingly, this Bill proposes to insert in section 39 of the Banking Act provisions that will be effective from the date on which the Treasurer announced the taxation screening procedures. The Bill declares that the power of the Reserve Bank over exchange control applications is to be taken as including authority to decline approval if the transaction involves avoidance or evasion of Australian tax. The Bank will not refuse approval on these grounds once a person has obtained the clearance of the Taxation Office. 
Honourable senators, will know from comments that have been made on more than one occasion how the Government feels about tax havens and the resort that people and companies make to them. I think it is reprehensible that this kind of activity, which strikes at the foundations of organised society, should go on. In the knowledge that all honourable senators share a desire to counter tax haven activity I confidently ask for a speedy passage for this Bill. I mention that work is proceeding on amendments to the taxation law also, designed to curb resort to tax haven arrangements. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 

 - Senator Wright asked about the type of taxes. The Bill refers to 'the avoidance or evasion of tax imposed by a law of Australia'. Primarily, as  Senator Wright  forecast, this would relate to income tax but it covers taxation imposed by any law of Australia. Primarily, according to my advice, income tax is what is in mind. As for his question about avoidance of tax, people can legally do this now under the taxation legislation but that is not the point. As for his question about the wide ranging inquiry, I do not know what sort of delays are experienced in this sort of thing. I can certainly give an assurance that if there are any delays they will be kept to a minimum. I said in the second reading speech that this Bill was not aimed at interfering in any way with the genuine export of capital or the investment of capital in these islands. I thank  Senator Wright  for mentioning his impersonality in not referring necessarily to the New Hebrides or wherever else this might apply. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
By command of his Excellency the Governor-General I lay upon the table the following paper: 
Advance to the Treasurer, statement for the year 1972-73 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1 90 1 -69. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table the texts of the undermentioned Conventions and Protocols in the field of human rights to which Australia has become a party or is about to become a party by accession or acceptance: 
. Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, done at New York on 28 September 1954. 
Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, done at New York on 30 August 1961. 
. Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, done at New York on 3 1 January 1 967. 
Protocol relating to Refugees Seamen, done at The Hague on 12 June 1973 and accepted by Australia on 10 December 1973. 
-At long last we have got the Liberal Party Opposition to say that it opposes apartheid and the things associated with it. (Opposition senators interjecting) - 
-I repeat that at long last we have got members of the Opposition to come this far away from their old cold war days when they were a government. Was my answer accurate that we did not want to go around upsetting governments? Yes, it was accurate, like all the answers I give to questions.  Senator Withers  asked me what I thought about something the Prime Minister had said. He knows perfectly well that he cannot ask me for an opinion on what anyone says, or for any opinion at all. We have consistently made our position clear regarding the situation in both Rhodesia and South Africa. We have consistently voted in the United Nations against violence. I have said that violence breeds violence. The Prime Minister saidand  Senator Withers  carefully avoided sayingthat he hoped that the solution to the problems in South Africa did not lie in the realm of violence. That is one statement that the honourable senator conveniently forgot to mention. He must face up to the fact that when people in any country of the world are denied the right of the ballot to alter their governments, they are forced into a situation in which they take other measures. This will apply in Rhodesia; it will apply in South Africa; and it will apply, as it did recently in Thailand, in any country in the world where the people are denied that right. It is great to get an admission at long last from  Senator Withers  that at least the Opposition goes along on this, because from the way he behaves in this place, he is forever protecting the position, and he criticises everything we do in relation to Rhodesia and South Africa. I repeat that it is great to get that statement from him at long last. 
-I do not know of any way in which I could look into a crystal ball and tell the honourable senator what the United States of America or any other country will do in the future. I have seen a Press report that alleges that  Dr Cairns  said largely what  Senator DrakeBrockman  has said that he said. I do not think that the question of an apology arises. There is proper communication between the American Ambassador and myself on any matters which he wants to raise. There are also times when I raise matters with him. If there is any concern about this I have no doubt that  Mr Green,  the American Ambassador, will get in touch with me. 
-I have already answered the question once. Does the honourable senator want me to go through it again? The answer is already in Hansard. 
-I will repeat it all for the honourable senator if he wishes. An identical question was asked earlier in the day. I do not know why  Senator Young  did not take cognisance of it. 
-I have already been asked that. The honourable senator asked whether I had seen a report. Yes, I have seen a 
Press report, but I have not yet seen a transcript of the interview. I underline that it was a Press report. I have noted that, according to the Press report,  Mr Whitlam  said that he hoped that the problems of southern Africa could be solved without violence. I said that a little earlier. If  Senator Young  was not present when I said it - 
If he was present why has he asked an identical question,  Mr President? 
-I suggest to the honourable senator that he look at the answer in Hansard tomorrow. 
In Chile we have had about 50 inquiries from persons seeking asylum or wishing to leave the country. The embassy has been referring these requests to other missions which have been in a better position to assist these people. The reason why they are in a better position to assist is that they represent countries which are parties to the Montevideo and Caracas conventions. These are 2 conventions peculiarly South American which deal with the acceptance of asylees. However, we have now given instructions to the embassy that where this cannot be arranged because I understand some of the embassies are starting to pack up and the matter cannot be handled in this way, we ourselves will accept the asylees in our embassy. 
-In answering a question earlier I said that I did not know how I could be expected to look into the future and state the intentions of the American Government or of any other government. As for the People's Revolutionary Government, as I have said in answers here on several occasions, we recognise the 2 governments in Vietnam, that of North Vietnam and that of South Vietnam, and that is the way the situation is at the moment? 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreements Act 1 947,I present the report on the operations of the Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. " 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
I present a Bill to be known as the Remuneration Tribunal Bill 1973. The Bill provides for review by a Tribunal of a number of salary groups, namely, judges, First Division officers of the Public Service, statutory full-time and part-time ' officials, and members of Parliament. The Bill, flows from the 1971 Kerr Report. The Government is of the view that a single Tribunal would facilitate co-ordination of higher salaries in the Australian Government arena and the development of a unified approach to common issues. The legislation provides therefore that the Tribunal will operate as a single tribunal. 
I turn now to the detail of the Bill. Clause 4, of the Bill provides that the Tribunal will comprise 3 persons appointed by the Governor-General. The  Chairman  shall be a judge or a retired judge of a State supreme court or a person with qualifications entitling him to appointment as a judge of a State supreme court. Provision is made to preclude the appointment to the Tribunal of persons who might be expected to have an interest in the findings of the Tribunal. The Bill provides for the Tribunal to be appointed on a part-time basis for a fixed term of 5 years. 
There are constitutional barriers which would prevent the Tribunal from making determinations relating to remuneration of judges and salaries of Ministers. For these reasons, Clause 6 of the Bill provides that the functions of the Tri- . bunal will be advisory in respect of these matters. 
The Parliament itself will need to pass the necessary legislation in those cases where the Tribunal has an advisory role before the findings of the Tribunal can be given effect. 
Clause 7 endows the Tribunal with the power to determine salary and/or annual allowance in respect of First Division officers, full-time and part-time statutory officials, members of Parliament and office-holders of Parliament and allowances- but not salaries- for Ministers of State. The Bill provides that the Minister shall arrange for a copy of each determination to be laid before each House within 15 sitting days of receipt by him: Either House of Parliament will be able to disallow any determination of the Tribunal within 1 5 sitting days after a copy has been laid before that House. The Tribunal will conduct reviews on its own initiative whenever it is satisfied that there is prima facie a case for review but at least annually. Provision is also made for the Tribunal to report at the one time for all salary groups. The Bill provides for the Tribunal to inform its mind in whatever manner it thinks fit and for the Government to provide assistance as appropriate. Reports of the Tribunal will be made public. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Laucke)  adjourned. 
I have an amendment to clause 4, which reads, in part: 
1 ) Section 7 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the words "The GovernorGeneral' and substituting the words 'The Minister'; and 
by omitting sub-sections (2) and (3). 
I move: 
Leave out paragraph (b), substitute the following paragraph: " (b) by omitting sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
The land acquired under this section may be an easement, right, power, privilege or other interest that did not previously exist as such, in, over or in connexion with land. 
Where the acquisition of land is authorised by the Minister under sub-section ( 1 ), the Minister shall cause to be laid before each House of the Parliament, within 30 sitting days of that House after the giving of the authorisation, a statement describing the land and stating that the acquisition of the land has been authorized under that sub-section for the public purpose specified in the statement '. ' '. 
Briefly, I say thanks to the honourable senators who on behalf of their parties are facilitating the passage of this Bill. As mentioned by  Senator Withers,  during the debate on this Bill in another place the Opposition drew attention to the possibility that there may be dangers in the powers conferred upon the Minister in acquiring by agreement land and interests in land on behalf of the Australian Government unless this is accompanied by a public statement concerning the exercise of these powers. The suggestion was made that the Minister might agree to an amendment being moved in this House that all approvals for the acquisition by agreement of land and interests in land should be tabled in both Houses of Parliament within 30 sitting days from the date of approval of each acquisition, subject to non-disclosure of those aspects of any transaction which the vendor may wish to withhold, for example. 
The Government welcomes this suggestion although there is no procedure incorporated in the principal Act for this nor have acquisitions by agreement been gazetted in the past. The proposed amendment, which I have circulated, provides for a statement of all acquisitions by agreement of land or interests in land authorised by the Minister to be tabled in both Houses of Parliament within 30 sitting days from date of approval of each acquisition. The location of the property, property description and the public purpose ibr which the land is being acquired will be shown together with the date of authorisation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
in reply-  Mr Chairman,  I do not quite know how we came to be dealing with the Christine Keeler case in England. Somebody once said that moral indignation was jealousy with a halo. That may have some association with  Senator Wright's  indignation. I would have thought that  Senator Wright  would have agreed with the provisions of this Bill and I think that, largely, he did. However, he seems to be in a mood today to be nitpicking on this sort of thing. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think that the Minister, on reflection, knowing the situation and the meaning of the word might withdraw it. 
Yes. I withdraw it. But fancy having to withdraw the word 'nitpicking' in this place, particularly in relation to  Senator Wright  who is the most abusive man who has ever stood in this chamber. 
-Speaking to the point of order, I think it is quite unusual for somebody who has not been mentioned to be taking a point of order. The fact is, I am giving  Senator Wright  a lot of credit. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! I think it is a matter of personal opinion as to whether one thinks one is being praised or not in being called the most abusive man in the chamber. If  Senator Wright  desires the expression to be withdrawn I shall ask for it to be withdrawn. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I ask the Minister to withdraw the words 'most abusive '. 
-Senator Wright has not asked for the words to be withdrawn. 
-He was sitting back and was not addressing the Chair. However, I will say that he is not the most abusive man ever to have been in this Parliament. 
Let me come back to the debate. Firstly,  Senator Withers  dealt with one section of the Bill only, that which concerns the salary of members of Parliament. He said that he wished the Government well but did not think we could duck the opprobrium and the abuse at this time. It is not meant for that at all. I have had an interest in this BUI because it was in my Department earlier in the year when I was able to bring for the first time a lot of salaries into the one basket. A view which I have held for many yearslong before I came into this place- is that there are too many wage fixing tribunals in Australia. Not only are there the ones that are well known but also there are dozens of others about which we never hear. What has developed in this country because of this situation is a step by step competition of wage flow-ons. Somebody on one rung of the ladder receives an increase and it flows on to the next person. As that person gets above bis previous rung on the ladder so the next person starts to use that as a wage claim. This is obvious. It has been obvious for many years, but the previous Government did not grapple with the problem. We are extending what we did earlier in the year, and we are bringing all these officers under the one purview. They will be dealt with under one BUI. If that course is not adopted, we Will be back at the step by step situation again. A tribunal wil bring down a decision in relation to, let us say, the First Division officers of the Public Service. Then there will be delays because the tribunal or somebody else is too busy to bring down decisions. Then the increase will have to flow on to the statutory officers and then to the part time officials. This process has been going on for years. The BUI is an effort to break the chain. There will Stil be a degree of delay in the Public Service because not all the senior men are being brought under the Bill. We are not able to do that in this Bill, but we are doing something. 

 Senator Wright objected; as most lawyers would, because he thinks that judges should not be treated as something far above the ordinary run of people. Judges were included with other officers in a Bill which I introduced earlier in the year. It brought judges on to the same line as Ministers, members of Parliament and statutory officers. I do not remember  Senator Wright  complaining at that time, but I give him credit that if he had thought of it he certainly would have complained. 
-If he did, I accept that. The thing is that I reject that philosophy now, as I would have rejected it then. This is some sort of pomposity that somebody who sits on a bench should not be treated like everybody else is treated, not even on the question of salary. Of course the salaries paid to these people will have an effect on wage fixations. If the salaries of judges, who have a relativity to some other senior persons, are bumped up by $20,000, $10,000 or $1,000 a year, the relativity will be upset. It is time that they were treated the same as other senior people in the community. 
I deal now with the composition of the tribunal. It will be chaired by a judge.  Senator Wright  did not say whether he was happy about that fact. I assume that he is. He complained that we did not lay down qualifications for the other 2 members. I am glad that we did not. Often in tribunals of this type the  chairman  takes unto himself assessors. If the control of this matter were still in my Department, which it is not now, I would be guided by the types of persons that the  chairman,  in this case a judge, would want them to be. In some cases, after a period, he will work out the types of people that he wants. After all, it has been done by Prime Ministers per-emptorily in one section. At the moment the Public Service Board is doing it in other sections. A Permanent Heads committee is doing the wage fixation of certain senior people. Out of this system will come 2 people who will not be assisting the  chairman  full time but who will take over separate sections, as happens with the Arbitration Court and other bodies in the Commonwealth Public Service today. 
It is high time that such a Bill was introduced. I do not know why the previous Government did not do so. It has been screaming out to be done for a long period. It was not done because of the muddle that the previous Government got itself into. It was an obvious muddle. Sections of the Public Service were handling it when they were completely ill equipped and far too busy to do so. They were not the right sort of tribunals to do so. Now there will be a public inquiry. It has been said that the inquiry should be conducted on judicial lines. I suppose that  Senator Wright  would like to be there in his wig and gown, appearing for somebody. The provisions which are written into this Bill in relation to the inquiry are provisions which are written into other Acts already, such as the provision for not having to abide by the rules of evidence, which applies in arbitration tribunals in Australia today. I think that it is all to the good if people wish to give evidence in an informal manner. If on the other hand the tribunal wants to make it a little more formal, it can certainly do so. It is within the competence of the tribunal. I am glad that the Opposition, with all its niggling complaints, will accept the Bill because in future honourable senators opposite will be pleased that they did so. The little faults which may arise will be ironed out. The scheme will be immeasurably better than anything which we have had for the last 23 years in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-On 20 November 1973,  Senator Webster  directed a question without notice to the Minister representing the Treasurer concerning the revision of the booklet titled Taxation for Farmers and Graziers'. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The booklet, the early editions of which were published under the title, 'Income Tax for Farmers and Graziers' is now titled 'Income Tax for Primary Producers'. The text of this booklet is now being revised to take account of the relevant changes that have been made in the income tax law since the previous edition was published. A new edition of the booklet will be published as soon as is practicable. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has not yet considered the first report of the Commission into Land Tenures presented to the GovernorGeneral on 29 November 1973. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware of a number of disquieting signs in Vietnam not the least of which is the apparently increasing willingness of the Vietnamese parties to breach the provisions of the ceasefire agreement, and to respond to breaches committed by the other side. 
The Government is not in a position to say which side may have initiated breaches of the ceasefire that have occurred in recent weeks. 
Any hostile military action by the Vietnamese parties against each other would appear to constitute a breach of the Paris Agreements and of the ceasefire which came into effect on 27 January 1973. 
and (5) The Australian Government has not lodged any protest with either Vietnamese Government Australia is no longer involved in the conflict in Vietnam nor is it a party to the Paris Agreements. The Government nevertheless supports the Paris Agreements as offering the best prospects for a durable peace and hopes that all parties to the Agreements will honour their terms. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has not yet considered the first report of the Commission into Land Tenures presented to the GovernorGeneral on 29 November 1973. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The revaluation of the Australian dollar on 23 December 1972, and the pegging of rates for the US dollar around the parity point, produced at that date a reduction of $A294 million in the Australian dollar equivalent of the gold and foreign exchange holdings of the Reserve Bank. The revaluation on 9 September 1973 reduced the Australian dollar equivalent of holdings on that date by $184 million. However, the amount of gold held and the value of foreign currencies held, in terms of those foreign currencies, are not affected by such revaluations. 
During the financial year 1972-73, in addition to the action taken by the Australian Government on 23 December 1972, revaluation adjustments arose from other changes in market rates of exchange, including the devaluation of the US dollar in February 1973 and book losses arising from deliveries under forward exchange contracts. As published in the Reserve Bank Annual Report, total adjustments in 1972-73 amounted to $766 million. 
) This information is not made public. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Banking Act provides that the Reserve Bank, with the approval of the Treasurer, has authority to make regulations relating to bank interest rates. In practice bank interest rates have not been formally determined under the Banking 
Act but maximum rates have been fixed after discussion between the Reserve Bank and the banks, and with the approval of the Treasurer. From April 1970 savings banks have been able, subject to a maximum rate, to decide their deposit interest rates according to their own circumstances. The maximum rate payable on ordinary accounts was 5 per cent per annum from 1 April 1970 to 30 September 1973. The predominant rate paid on ordinary accounts was 3.7S per cent per annum on balances up to $4,000 and 4.2S per cent per annum on that part of any balance which exceeded $4,000 up to the limit of $20,000. 
On 28 September 1973, the  Deputy  Governor of the Reserve Bank announced that, following discussions between the Reserve Bank and the savings banks and with the approval of the then Acting Treasurer, new maximum interest rates for savings bank deposits and loans had been fixed to apply from 1 October 1973. The  Deputy  Governor stated that the maximum rate which savings banks may pay on accounts was to be increased from 5 to 7 per cent from that date, and that actual rates to be paid by individual banks on the various forms of accounts would be announced by them. Investment accounts (which are subject to notice of withdrawal and minimum balance requirements) would carry the highest rates. He further stated that in the case of ordinary accounts, rates paid on the upper segment of amounts held on deposit were not expected generally to exceed 6 per cent. In practice, the predominant rate for ordinary accounts has remained at 3.75 per cent per annum on balances up to $4,000 while the predominant rate on the upper segment is now 6 per cent per annum. 
and (3) See reply to (1). 
As indicated in (1) above, within maximum rates each savings bank has discretion, subject to consultation with the Reserve Bank, to determine the rates payable on particular segment of depositors' balances according to its own circumstances, which would include the cost of conducting the various types of accounts and the income that can be earned on the funds deposited. With regard to the interest rate paid on smaller ordinary accounts I am informed that, while the savings banks keep this rate under careful review, many of these accounts are in fact conducted at a loss because of the substantial administrative costs involved in conducting accounts which are the subject of numerous small transactions. Unlike trading banks, savings banks do not impose charges for keeping accounts or collecting cheques. 
There are also income restraints affecting savings banks. Over half the assets of savings banks are in public sector securities, on which the yield is fixed at the rime of acquisition; the high rates now ruling are therefore only obtainable on new investments or when existing investments are rolled over. Savings banks' income is also affected by their agreement to limit to 1 per cent the recent increase in interest rates on the majority of their housing loans. 
It is also relevant that savings bank depositors with balances on ordinary account above certain minima, ranging from $100 to $500, may also transfer their funds to a savings investment account at 7 per cent per annum. Investment accounts are subject to 3 months notice of withdrawal. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Pay-roll tax was transferred to the States with effect as from 1 September 1971. The Australian Government now imposes the tax only in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The general exemption from the tax was increased to the present level of $20,800 per annum as from 1 September 1957. 
The increase recorded in average weekly earnings per employed male unit between the September quarter 1957 and the corresponding quarter of 1973 is approximately 180 per cent. The increase is given in approximate terms to take account of some minor changes between those dates in the scope and methodology used in the estimation of average weekly earnings. 
On the basis of the figures as they were published until March 1971, average weekly earnings per employed male unit in the September quarter 1 957 were $39. 10. 
On 6 November 1973  Senator Wright  asked me a question without notice concerning interest rates. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware that interest rates have risen across the board in Australia following the action taken in September to increase yields on government bonds. 
The reasons for taking that action were outlined in the Prime Minister's statement of 9 September on measures to stem inflation. An important element in the current inflationary situation has been excess liquidity. In 1972-73 the money supply increased by 26 per cent and in the absence of offsetting action by the Government there would have been a further over-large increase in 1973-74. The increases in interest rates were intended to make government securities more attractive (so as to sell more than would otherwise have been the case, with consequential effects on private sector liquidity) and to make saving and the holding of financial assets generally more attractive relative to spending. Curbing the increase in liquidity and the money supply was- and soil is- seen as an essential precondition for curbing inflationary pressures. 
It would not, of course, be appropriate for me to speculate about the future course of interest rates. 
The Treasurer has provided me with the following response to a question without notice asked by  Senator Townley  on 25 October on the subject of increased interest rates on bank housing loans: 
The decision to raise interest rates was not an easy one. It was, however, seen as a necessary part of the Government's program to combat inflation. There are, of course, some costs incurred in the community as a result of interest rates which necessarily go with making government bonds more attractive; these overt costs, however, amount to much less than the costs involved in the coven erosion of the value of money through inflation. 
One effect of the increase in interest rates will be to moderate the flood of money into the housing sector where inflationary pressures have been most severe. In the overstretched state of the housing industry the recent excessive provision of finance has served mainly to drive up building costs and increase construction delays, rather than enable more houses to be built. 
Although some abatement in the demand for housing was necessary, the Government was concerned to shield less prosperous borrowers from the full impact of the increases in interest rates generally. To this end arrangements were made with the banks to limit increases in interest rates on the great majority of their housing loans to I per cent. In addition, the savings banks have agreed, where existing borrowers so desire, to extend the term of the loan so as to avoid an increase in periodic payments. 
It would not, of course, be appropriate for me to speculate on the future course of interest rates. 
-I shall find out the details and let  Senator Greenwood  know. 
-The honourable senator has asked me to ask the Treasurer for information. I will do so. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
While I appreciate  Senator Greenwood's  continued interest in the illegal regime whose guest he was in 1970, 1 have nothing to add to the reply which I gave to a similar question on notice on 11 December 1973 (House of Representatives Hansard, page 4579). 
-During the election speech of the Prime Minister it was announced that for the first time in Australian history we would be introducing a system under which interest payments on house mortgages would be a concessional taxation deduction and that the concession was to cut out at $ 14,000. The intention was to make the concession available to those on the lower income levels. The idea is not novel in other parts of the world. Regrettably, interest rates are high and the Government regrets that this is so. I do not think that there is any connection between the 2 matters. Interest rates were not at these levels when we announced the scheme prior to 2 December 1972. This proposal is merely intended to carry out an election promise. The other matter is quite separate and I hope that it will be tackled in the near future. 
-I did not specifically see  Sir John  Crawford 's comment, nor am I sure that he said that it was because of Government policy that what the honourable senator has suggested would take place. I think I should get a copy of the statement and get some comments on it from the Treasurer for the honourable senator. 
Yes. When I was in Indonesia last week I raised this issue firstly with  Mr Adam  Malik, my opposite number in that country, and subsequently with other Ministers who have some connection with it. I pointed out to them that this matter is an ingredient- not the only one- in the relationship between our two countries, and I pointed out that there is deep concern. They explained to me that they were still carrying out interrogations of people arrested on 15 and 16 January with a view to bringing these people to trial on specific charges. By far the largest number of those arrested had been released and interrogation of those not released was still continuing. However, as I understood the position, these interrogations were well advanced and, arising from them, a decision would be made on whether charges would be levelled against these people. 

 -Mr President, I seek your guidance. I understand that there is a question on this matter on the notice paper. 
No, I am not running away from it. I am seeking guidance. 1 am perfectly willing to answer the question and I hope the  President  permits me to answer it. 
-The last part of the question concerned a new policy on technical aid; that was the thrust of the honourable senator's question relating to aid to Indonesia. I have held this view for many years. In fact, 3 years ago, when I was a member of the Opposition, in a broadcast in Indonesia I said that I did not think sufficient technical aid was going into these sorts of areas. Many years ago the previous Government sent a printing team to Indonesia, which was highly successful. When this matter was raised with me I thought this was a very appropriate time to take a further look at the question of technical aid. Most of the aid in education is given by bringing graduates, university people and the like to Australia. The new policy would be different, as I visualise it, in that we would send aid to these countries. The aid would probably go to Indonesia but not necessarily so. It could be given in the new concept of the aid program which we are planning for the ASEAN countries. We have already had talks with the ASEAN countries, and just after Easter the Secretaries-General will be here to discuss a specific program. The idea of this would be not to alter the bilateral arrangements in any way but to do something that would have a common ground for the 5 ASEAN countries. 
An analogous position is what we have done in the Pacific, where so many islands create a shipping problem. Australia has assisted by providing an expert to advise on the problem. We will be talking about that in the next 2 days at Rarotonga. I think this is a very sensible way, particularly in Indonesia which is going into its second five-year plan. This is the type of work that can be done. The idea would be, I think, that we would send teachers to instruct Indonesians to set up their own teaching services in such things as the building trades. I think this is one area that could be less costly. It would have an immediate effect and would suit not only Indonesia but also all of the ASEAN countries. As for the details of it, I want to set up studies on it. It is all right for me to get this idea and to think of it, but we must have the technical chaps to look at it. If anything on it develops in the near future I will certainly make a statement on it. 
No such request has been made and it is very unlikely that it would have been made because there is quite a good relationship between China and Japan. If they wanted to do anything, let me assure the honourable senator that they have the expertise to do it themselves. 
I answered an almost identical question asked by  Senator Cotton  earlier in the day. I pointed out then that this is the honouring of an election promise which was specifically put in  Mr Whitlam  's policy speech. He announced that there would be a tax deductibility for people paying interest on home loans. Although the figures were not used, it works out that it cuts out at $ 14,000 a year income. Persons in receipt of amounts above that figure would not be entitled to a taxation deduction on mortgage interest repayments. This has nothing to do with interest rates which were not what they are today. We agree that interest rates on home loans are high. We hope and trust that we will be able to do something about them. But that is quite a separate question from what we are talking about. I cannot see how this can be illusory if somebody in receipt of say $5,000 or $6,000 a year is now able to claim an additional concessional deduction which he could not claim in previous years. As to the statement by the honourable senator that the concession will benefit the couple who both work, I do not quite see his point although I just may not be able to grasp it. The position is that if a person is receiving $9,000 a year he can make a concessional claim, but if his wife goes out to work and earns $5,000 a year, bringing the combined income up to $ 14,000, they will be unable to claim anything at all. 
-No, it does not apply. 
-The age limit does not apply to people from outside the service. The ambassador in Ireland will be transferred not to Australia but to Switzerland. That will take place over the next few months. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry has asked me to answer the question. I will find out the details and let  Senator Rae  know. 1 am not aware of them. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Net collections of personal income tax during the last five years were as follows: 
-Firstly, nobody has ever said that we would be making a decision in June. I was interviewed several times yesterday on television and radio following the announcement in the 'Sydney Morning Herald '. The only time June came up was when I was asked whether it was true that  Mr Whitlam  was going to Moscow in June. He will be going about June. I was asked whether we would have made a decision by then. I said that I thought we would. As to the question why we do not reject the request out of hand, I would not be prepared to reject anything out of hand that is put to me by any nation. This is a scientific situation and one which requires a lot of study. I certainly shall not be recommending to the Cabinet that we reject anything without due and proper consideration. 
Yes, 300 members of the South West African Peoples' Organisation were arrested in Namibia earlier this year. They include 10 of the leading people associated with that organisation. Australia does not recognise the Terrorism Act under which they were arrested. We have already protested through our ambassador to the South Africans about this matter. The were unable to give us any information, particularly about whether the 10 leading people would be charged. The answer to the fourth question is: No, I have not heard of  Mr McLeay  protesting. 
Of course, the pay as you earn taxation system has been in operation now for about 30 years. As I understand it, interest has never been paid on the money collected. I assume that over those years consideration has been given to it. I will find out whether it has and let the honourable senator know the result of my inquiries. 
-I think that the subject matter raised in the first part of the question actually comes under the portfolio of  Senator Murphy,  but I think our attitude to the question of atmospheric nuclear testing is well known. In the latter part of his question the honourable senator asked why we opposed a specific mention of China in the communique. That has been put in a form which is not quite right. The situation was that even before we became the Government the South Pacific Forum had lodged complaints about French testing in the Pacific area. This matter came up again on this occasion and the Forum reiterted what Australia had done last year under a Labor Government and what it had done in previous years under Liberal-Country Party coalition governments. The situation is that we are in the South Pacific Forum and we are dealing with that area, and the protest was made in relation to that area. What we said was that we opposed all forms of atmospheric testing, particularly by France which is the only government which is testing in the South Pacific area. What  Senator Sim  should bear in mind is that we are dealing with a specific area. We made the general statement that we opposed all atmospheric testing. We made a specific statement because that is what the Forum had done in previous years. We were dealing with a regional situation. 
-The honourable senator starts ofT his question by asking whether, because of my answer to  Senator Withers,  there is some basis for the Press speculation that the Government has already decided or is about to make a decision. The answer is no. 1 clearly said nothing to this effect in any of the many interviews I gave yesterday in Melbourne where the Press just about drove me mad because of the Sydney Morning Herald' report. I have not noticed anything about this in this morning's Press. What I have said and what I said to  Senator Withers  was that a request was first made back in 1971. A scientific delegation from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was in Australia recently and it had talks with our people, as a result of which we will initial an agreement with the USSR on scientific grounds. Following that visit the USSR renewed its request. At the moment the position is that I have asked the departments interested- it is not only the Department of Foreign Affairs- to move as quickly as they can to assess the scientific information we have and, if we do not have enough information, to gather it from other countries and report to me on the matter as soon as possible. What I said to  Senator Withers  was that I was not prepared to reject out of hand any request from any country with which we have friendly relations. 
-No, I do not think there would be. Our Ambassador to the Vatican at the moment is  Dr Lloyd  Thomson, who is stationed in The Hague. That in itself answers the question: We do not think it is necessary to have a full time Ambassador to the Vatican. I could not give the honourable senator the exact duties from my own knowledge. They would be the normal duties that our ambassadors and high commissioners have overseas. As far as I know, it has never been put to me by my Department that there has been an increase in duties at the Vatican, and for the foreseeable future I cannot see that we will want a full time ambassador there. 
Yes, the honourable senator can be readily assured on that point. Discussions on this subject have taken place. Only today I put certain propositions before the Americans. I await their reply. 
Firstly, if questions are based on a wrong premise you finish up in a very difficult position. The fact is that the announcement was made by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs while I was away. I was out of the country from the time I went to the ANZUS Council meeting late in February until I returned on, I think, 24 March. Therefore it was done by the Acting Foreign Minister who is also the Prime Minister. 
The honourable senator has asked me a lot of questions on completely &gt; legal matters which have been floating around this place all day. He talked earlier today about amateur lawyers, and I said that I would delete the word 'amateur'. I am neither; neither professional nor amateur. If what the honourable senator says is the constitutional position then I think that if anybody is going to sue  Senator Gair  for the ยฃ100 I am pretty sure from which corner it will come; it will come from the Democratic Labor Party. 
Listening to  Senator McManus  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, who has been railing at us very severely over the last quarter of an hour, and to some Liberal senators- not all of them- we go right back to the cold war situation. But we are emerging from that situation because it was one which for generations had ended with one result- world war. We all know now that because of technology, which in the last 20 years has advanced more than we have since the dawn of time and which in the next 20 years will advance further than we have now since the dawn of time, even including the last 20 years, we cannot go on having an arms race or having a cold war. We cannot continue drawing a line on a map and saying that all the baddies are on that side and all of us goodies are on this side. One day there will be der Tag, the day when we finally fight. We have survived world wars over the generations but because of the advance of technology and the splitting of the atom- things have never been the same in the fields of defence and aggression since the day they successfully split the atom- we will not survive another world war involving the use of atomic weapons. What this Government has done and what, to their credit,  President  Nixon, in spite of his home problems, and  Dr Kissinger  have done, is introduce into the international community a different approach. They have been able to break down the cold war situation and move into what is known as detente today. However, I wonder whether the people who still like to live in that cold war period, and who hear people like  Senator McManus  talk, have read or studied anything over the last 10 years, let alone the last few years, about the changes that have taken place. In our own area a few years ago in the days of cold war one had to stand up and be counted. One had to be on one side of the fence or the other, and the smaller nations were nervously looking over their shoulders to see whether their friends were smiling at them or frowning at them. History has shown that whenever there is an arms race it has inevitably led to war- world war. With modern armaments that we have today we might still reach a situation where we have a war to end all wars. I wonder, when I look around the world today, whether we have really recovered from the last world war. Sure, some of the defeated nations are very wealthy but there are still displaced persons camps, still lives that are wrecked, still people who have never been able to get their feet on the ground and live as normal human beings. Because of the breaking down of the cold war, when we had the Middle East crisis which went as close to world war as one could possibly get on that terrible Friday night, detente helped and held. A few years ago under the old regimes it would have been unthinkable that the United States of America would have dared to talk or even suggested talking to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In a period of confrontation, within 24 hours they were able to talk and were able to prevent a world war. Let no one think that anyone is immune. We had in the Middle East one of the most difficult and most dangerous situations in the world. Thank heavens it seems to be receding. As I have said to many Jewish and Arab friends, you will be the preferred creditors and the first people to die if a world war breaks out. But if a world war breaks out in this situation with the United States on one side and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the other side nearly every nation, and certainly Australians, Indonesians and the rest, will finally be dying in the field. It is all right to be theoretical. It is all right to say that we can keep out of these things but when super-powers are confronting each other, fighting and using atomic weapons, we with the small nations of the world will become mere pawns in the game and we will not be masters of our own destiny. 
The reason why we have been able to retreat from the cold war situation is that the intelligent people of this world, the  Dr Kissingers,  realise that there is no future for us but there will be destruction for all if this situation goes on. In this situation the grand opportunity is given of backing away from a cold war. When we look back over recent history, it is amazing that there was able to be a confrontation for so long and that things did not blow up. What happens is that the smaller nations are given greater manoeuvreability. We have faced a different situation in our region over the last few years. A vastly different situation prevails in Indonesia at present to that which prevailed under the terrible period of the Sukarno regime. I always describe it as the 20 years of dropout. It was a period of 20 years when our nearest neighbour had all the potentiality of being one of the great nations of the world. And come what may, it will be great. Indonesia has rich soil, it has area, it has people, who are able people given the chance, and it has natural reserves of oil- that magic word today. There is no way in which Indonesia, whatever its setbacks may be, will not be one of the great countries and one of the greatly populated areas of the world. 
-Senator Byrne, who has paid some attention to it over the years, agrees with me on this. Singapore has become one of the modern economic marvels of this area. There is a breaking down in Malaysia. There is a new situation in Thailand where in the next few months the people will move away from a military dictatorship to a position where they will be able to vote for themselves. All this is a change and all these possibilities have been given to these small nations by the fact that there has been removed from this area a situation of great power confrontation- I will not say rivalries; I think we will always get great power rivalries- in which people have to stand up and be counted and have to look over their shoulders to ascertain what their neighbours are thinking. 
It is very easy for the cold war people to belittle and to write down the things which will be achieved. I have always said that if in the field of foreign affairs you are not an optimist then you should start giving up because if you start to look at the black side of things you will not get anywhere. 
This Government has been berated and ridiculed because it has said that it supports ASEAN. ASEAN, a pact of 5 countries in SouthEast Asia, was ridiculed in its early days and was supposed to be a madman's dream of people getting together but it has achieved more in that area than any of the other organisations in the area and very much more than all its critics ever thought it would achieve. Sure, it is not the perfect thing. Sure, it will not bring Utopia to the area. There are 5 countries, many of them having divergent outlooks and a couple of them being involved in very great confrontation situations which are being held down and handled because 5 lots of people are trying to do the best in their area. They have been very much more successful than any of us ever thought they would be. When they say that they want an area of peace and neutrality and when this Government wishes them well and tries to do its little bit to assist, we are scorned and it is said that that is not a cold war situation. 
I refer now to the Indian Ocean area. When we say that we back the Sri Lankan proposal for an area of peace our critics say: 'No, you do not want that situation. What you want is a race between the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. counting each day the number of ships in the area and fighting to see that the figures can be matched'. Nobody underrates the situation and says that it is only these 2 nations that have ships in the Indian Ocean. From time to time there are tremendous amounts of shipping from France, from Britain and from some of the littoral States. We could come back to a cold war situation. We could say to the United States of America that we want it to count the ships every day and to have the same as the U.S.S.R., or perhaps 10 per cent or even 20 per cent more. We say that the sensible and the logical thing to do is to get these great superpowers together and to agree to an arms limitation in this area. What is wrong with doing that in the Indian Ocean? It has been done between the super-powers at every other level; they have met and have agreed to an arms limitation. Is not that the sensible thing to be doing? I say to those people who scorn us when we try to have the reverse of an arms race: 'What is your alternative?' The alternative that is put to us, is to have an arms race and to say to the U.S.A. that it can have 10 per cent more arms than the Russians. What would the Russians say? They would say: Let us have 10 per cent more than the U.S.A.'. What would the situation finally be? 
We have, as a government, become a member of a committee of the United Nations which is trying to do something about the Indian Ocean. People say: 'What futility. Why do you do this? It is unreal '. It is not unreal if a study is made of what is being done. The first thing that you do when confronting people is to say: 'Let us exclude the U.S.S.R. on the one side. Let us exclude the U.S.A. on the other'. That approach completely forgets ali the other neighbours that are in the area. But that is not the end of the story. The first things that are always looked at in any arms limitation are atomic weapons. The first thing we do in looking at the Indian Ocean is to say that atomic weapons should be excluded. 
Immediately that puts the responsibility on the people in the area. We cannot sit on this area and say: 'We are a littoral State. We do not want the great powers to come in with atomic weapons. What about ourselves, what about India and what about all those other countries?' Immediately pressure is put upon those other countries. You immediately put pressure on the littoral States of Africa. What about our neighbours? Are we going to cause a war? It gets very much greater. What you are doing, as difficult as it might be and as long range as it might be, is to put that State in the situation of examining the whole question of the Indian Ocean. 
These things are not futile. It is easy in the political sense to say that this is a madman's dream. Of course there will be confrontation. If that negative approach is accepted we go back to the situation of World War I and World War II. The cold war should be dead and every country should contribute to killing it. I deplore very much the fact that the last of the Liberal Foreign Ministers, when he was in New York, said that we were a small and insignificant country and we can contribute nothing. The Americans often say: 'It is no good being a super-power. We cannot even control Cuba'. The fact that big countries can push small countries around is no longer true. If you take a moral and independent view of the world situation today you can exert an influence far beyond your geographical area or the size of your numbers. All people should make such a contribution. We are criticised because we brought forces out of Singapore. No criticism was made when the previous Government shifted those forces from one country to another from Malaysia to Singapore. Those 2 countries at that stage were almost in a cold war situation. 
We were friends of England for donkeys years. We did not have to have troops sitting on the Isle of Wight or on the South of England to prove our bona fides. This busines of stationing troops overseas went out years ago. It just does not mean a thing. It does not amount to isolation. Isolation is a state of mind. We do not have to have troops walking around in uniform and those sorts of things to prove our bona fides. The fact is that in the field of foreign affairs this Government has taken a new stand. We have taken a stand of independence. We have taken the stand that we will not accept the inevitability of war and that we will work wherever we can with the small nations near us, particularly in the Asian area, and also with the bigger countries to see that there is not an inevitability of war. It can be done. In spite of our geographical position, in spite of our size, we can through the United 
Nations and the other multilateral institutions contribute something that is worth fighting forpeace and not the inevitability of war. 
I give notice that, at the next sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, W. G. Henderson and J. W. Robson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on 1 2 March 1 974, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of Tangney' be substituted for 'O 'Conner'. 
The appointment and terms and conditions signed by me? Yes. 

by leave-  Mr President,  the Government has been informed that the state memorial service for the late  President  Georges Pompidou will be held at 1 1 a.m. on Saturday, 6 April, at Notre Dame De Paris. I rise now to inform the Parliament that Australia will be represented at the  service  by His Excellency the Governor-General. His Excellency will leave for Paris today and will return to Australia as soon as possible after the service. 
Let me say at the outset that any differences we might have with the French Government are transcended by this tragic event which has befallen the French people. On such occasions we remember and reflect on the traditional and strong ties we have with France: Our common values, our democratic way of life and our respect for and affinities with the civilisation and cultural heritage that is France. All these things come to mind as we share with the French Government and people a common sorrow at the passing of a most distinguished world leader. 
Pompidou, who assumed the office of  President  of the French Republic on 20 June 1 969, had a daunting task in succeeding General De Gaulle. He did so with distinction, however, and became acknowledged as a statesman in his own right, not only within the context of Europe but on the world stage. But M. Pompidou was, above all, a Frenchman. He prided himself on his links with provincial France, particularly the Auvergne; but he nevertheless sought to represent the aspirations of all Frenchmen. He dedicated himself to the advancement of his country, whether through the propagation of the French language, through the modernisation of the economic and social conditions of life in France, or in directing personally the conduct of France's international diplomacy. The loss of such a distinguished leader will be sorely felt in France. 
-I do not know the dates of that advice but I can find out. I am pretty sure that the Executive Council minute has not yet been put up. Did the last question ask about the date that he leaves Ireland? 
-Yes, he is. 
As I see the situation,  Mr Brennan  is still the Ambassador in Ireland and  Mr Gair  is the Ambassador designate. This has been the usual thing that has gone on over the years. But I have noticed over the last couple of days that that appointment has raised more than ordinary interest in the Senate and that these things are being put under the microscope and talked about. The situation, as I understand it- I could be technically wrong on this as these are things to which Ministers generally do not apply their minds in detail because they have been going on for so long- is that  Mr Brennan  is the Ambassador to Ireland at the moment and the Ambassador designate to Ireland is  Mr Gair. 

 - Mr President, I lay on the table of the Senate the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the service for the year ending 30 June 1974 and particulars of certain proposed additional expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1974. 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the service of the year ending 30 June 1974 and particulars of certain proposed additional expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1974 in the Committee of the Whole be an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 

 - Mr President, I seek your guidance as to the amount of detail I should give in reply. Being under no such instructions, I ask the honourable senator to put his question on the notice paper. 
In answer to  Senator Withers,  as he knows papers have been tabled in respect of this matter. The situation is that I have not the power of appointment of an ambassador or high commissioner. That is reserved to the Governor-General- not even to the Executive Council. On 14 March the Governor-General appointed  Senator Gair  to the position of Ambassador to Ireland. Agrement was received on 2 1 March. Following that, the Executive Council charged me with the responsibility of fixing rates of pay and the other things that go with the appointment, and the taking up of that appointment. The paper that I signed following that authorisation was in fairly standard form- that he takes up his position as Ambassador to Ireland when he hands in his credentials and at the same time hands in another letter withdrawing the credentials of his predecessor. This morning I received such advice from 2 overseas ambassadors. It is happening all the time. As to when his pay begins, I now leave it in the hands of the Senate or the High Court to tell me. 
Firstly, it gives me a lot of powers in excluding anything in the South Pacific Forum. I answered this question the other day. What the South Pacific Forum did was to condemn all atmospheric testing, wherever it might occur. The motion went on specifically to name France and, as closely as I can remember, it used the words 'The only country testing in this area'. As I explained the other day, the South Pacific Forum, which is a body derived from the  South  Pacific Commission of a few years ago, is dealing with those problems in the South Pacific area itself. Therefore, that is the specific thing that it is looking at. 
-Just a moment. The honourable senator also asks the reason for it. That is the reason for it. He says that the motion is politically protective. It is not. The Australian Labor Party protested long before the Party of which the honourable senator is a member when the Chinese first started nuclear testing in the atmosphere.  Mr Whitlam,  as Leader of the Opposition, protested to China when he visited that country. He has protested to the Chinese since he has become Prime Minister and we have specifically sent our Ambassador to China to protest to the Chinese again. The honourable senator tries to hang the matter around our necks as a smear at election time in an effort to produce an impression in the community which is not true.  His  actions do him little credit. As I say, this is not true. As the honourable senator well knows, the reason we took France to the International Court of Justice and did not take China to the Court was that China never accepted the jurisdiction of the Court. Therefore, the same sort of parameters were not available to us within which we could act. For.the second time, I state that that is the reason. As for this business of why we protested against one country and not against another, the fact is that it was specifically written into the South Pacific Forum communique. 
The appointment and terms and conditions signed by me? Yes. 
Yes. 

 Senator Willesee said in answer to a question that  Senator Gair's  appointment commenced from 3 April in accordance with the terms and conditions and the date of appointment. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator Gair had not resigned or been disqualified from this Senate by at least 3 April. I called as the first witness  Senator Gair,  pointing out that by his actions, his deeds, his acceptance of the emoluments of office and his conversations with his colleagues he had indicated that he proposed to resign on 3 April. I made it clear that  Mr Whitlam  at a Press conference had indicated that his clear understanding was that on 2 April  Senator Gair  was a functioning senator with full qualifications and that he,  Mr Whitlam,  understood that  Senator Gair  would resign on 3 April. I was examining the actions and words of  Senator Willesee.  I quoted the question asked by  Senator Durack  and the answer given by  Senator Willesee  to illustrate that  Senator Willesee  made it clear that  Senator Gair  would take up his appointment, in terms of conditions and commencement date, on 3 April. I went on to say that  Senator Willesee  had been in this chamber in the weeks before. He was fully aware of the circumstances regarding the appointment. He did nothing to indicate any disqualification of  Senator Gair. 
I now draw attention to the fact that  Senator Willesee  has produced no paper, no letter, no written document of any appointment by the Government of  Senator Gair;  nor any indication of an offer and an acceptance. But let me test the situation regarding  Senator Gair.  If there were an office of profit under the Crown, if there were directly or indirectly any benefits or honoraria coming to  Senator Gair,  then those benefits would have come between 14 March and 3 April of this year. It is the habit of all departments as at 3 1 March to make up the cheques for payment of all out of pocket expenses of all servants of the Commonwealth, including honourable senators who today will have received an acknowledgment of their travelling allowances for last month. Then, I quote as evidence on the part of  Senator Willesee,  the fact that he has not by any act, word or deed tabled any document to indicate that  Senator Gair  has acquired any monetary gain or any reimbursement for the month of March. If he had done so, that evidence would have been available and it would have been produced. But the fact that such evidence was not produced is conclusive evidence that it did not occur. If such evidence happens to emerge tomorrow, everyone will have the correct suspicion of how it is invented. But the fact of the matter is that if expenses had been incurred, if salaries, allowances or emoluments had been paid, then that matter would have been capable of proof. No such proof has come forward. 
The Attorney-General is another definitely involuntary witness. He sat in this chamber from 14 March to 3 April. He said he knew during that time that  Senator Gair  was disqualified as a senator. If this is true, then, in fact, he is guilty of a very serious offence because he condoned a breach of Parliament and he connived at actions which could have rendered the whole of the proceedings of this chamber invalid. It was his duty as a senator, as a Minister and particularly as Attorney-General to acquaint you,  Mr President,  and, either through you or directly, the Senate of any knowledge which he had of a disqualification of a senator. He did not do so until some time after 2 April. He then said: 'I knew it a day or so before. I told  Senator Gair  that I thought he should not have been in here'. That is quite outrageous. If that is so, he should have told the Senate. But, in fact, we did not know. 
Another piece of evidence which is of great importance is the fact that it is admitted by all sides that the letter signed by  Senator Gair  and delivered to you,  Mr President,  was, in fact, not drawn up by  Senator Gair;  it was the brainchild of others. There is some suggestion that  Senator Gair  edited the letter. 
The question then arises as to whether he has disqualified himself. One must keep this situation against the background that the Prime Minister said that  Senator Gair  was a senator on 2 April and that he was fully qualified. There are 2 relevant situations in which a senator can disqualify himself. Section 44 of the Constitution states: 
Any person who- 
Holds any office of profit under the Crown, or any pension payable during the pleasure of the Crown out of any of the revenues of the Commonwealth: shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
So the question is: Did  Senator Gair  at the relevant time hold an office of profit under the Crown or was any pension payable out of any of the revenues of the Commonwealth? Equally, section 45 of the Constitution provides: 
If a senator or member of the House of Representatives- 
Directly or indirectly takes or agrees to take any fee or honorarium for services rendered to the Commonwealth, or for services rendered in the Parliament to any person or State: his place shall thereupon become vacant. 
Does anyone suggest, by any kind of evidence before the Senate, that there is proof of a fee or an honorarium or payment for services rendered? Where has there been the faintest evidence; where has there been the faintest proof? Clearly under neither of these heads is this so. 
Let me recapitulate the facts. We are asked, under section 47, to decide the qualifications of a senator or whether there is a vacancy in the Senate. As to the qualifications of a senator,  Senator Gair  remains completely qualified in that he has not resigned. As to his disqualification under section 44 or 45 of the Constitution,  Senator Gair  has said: 'I was a senator until 3 April'. The Prime Minister has said:  'Senator Gair  was a senator until 3 April'. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said to  Senator Durack:  'The appointment, including the commencing date and the conditions, functions from 3 April'. They are the 3 responsible people- the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the person involved. All of them said this. This having been said and the writ having been issued in Queensland, the Government found that its snide intention had been frustrated. Its intention was quite clear. It wanted, by an act of surprise, to appoint  Senator Gair,  have him resign at its timetable and therefore force 6 vacancies in Queensland so that it would not be possible for the Government to be defeated- 3 non-Labor Party and 2 Labor Party- in Queensland. The whole aim was to frustrate the electors of Australia. The 2 intentions were to deceive the Parliament grossly and, by deceiving the Parliament, to frustrate the will of the electors because by such a connivance the electors of Australia would be denied their right, under proportional representation, to exert a majority of non-Labor senators in this chamber. 
This was not just a trick on Parliament; it was an evil-genius plan to trick the electors of Australia. Clearly this is so. Clearly this was a post facto plot. In fact, it was a fraud in every sense. It comes close to being a criminal fraud in that it aims to deceive the Parliament and the people of Australia into a belief that  Senator Gair  was disqualified on 1 4 or 20 March. 
As is quite clear, a massive fraud has been attempted. Quite clearly, this has failed. The Government has been caught out. The guilty people are, firstly, the Prime Minister because he clearly knew; secondly, the Foreign Minister because, although he apparently was a very unwilling party to the appointment of  Senator Gair,  he knew of it. He knew of the possibility of qualifications and he remained silent. So he must share the culpability. The Attorney, on his own confession, said he knew and he did nothing about it at all. Others are talking about letting the Labor Party judge those who egged it on. As with Horatio at the bridge, those behind cried forward' and those in front cried 'back'. So the left wing steering committee, which has done so much damage to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and with all its bad advice had divided and split the Labor Party once again, with the Prime Minister, has brought disruption and utter discredit to the Labor Party. The credibility of the Prime Minister cannot be re-established under this motion. I support the amendment as moved by  Senator Withers. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (l).(2)and(3). 
In replyFirstly, let me thank honourable senators of all parties who have agreed to pass the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill 1974. 1 appreciate this because of the peculiar circumstances in which we are placed.  Senator Withers  has raised the question of the names of the divisions. I regret that because of the circumstances we are unable to make recommendations to the GovernorGeneral. What I do promise  Senator Withers  is that the name of Fraser which he mentioned certainly will be put forward. I do not think that he will be the only person thinking of this name but I appreciate his mentioning it. It will be put forward to the appropriate Minister for consideration when we get to that point. 
I have taken note of  Senator DrakeBrockman's  comments. It is true that anything that is done can be taken as a precedent, but if such a situation did arise I think a fairly good argument could be advanced because of the circumstances that surround the introduction of the Bill at this time. I am glad that we all agree that the Australian Capital Territory has come of age to the point that we are treating it in a somewhat similar way to that applicable to the States and giving the people in the Territory 2 elected members of the House of Representatives after the next election. I agreed with everything said by  Senator Withers  except for his last sentence. I do not agree with his forecast that after the election there will be 2 Liberal Party members for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I made some inquiries about this matter and I am afraid that I am unable to help the honourable senator. Firstly, we do not know the date of the double dissolution. We are confident that there will be a double dissolution, but whether that comes today, tomorrow or in a week's time, nobody knows. As I understand the technical situation, I am unable to give the information that  Senator 
Wright wants. I think that he has made a legitimate inquiry and the best that I can do is to tell the honourable senator that I will convey to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  the fact that there is some anxiety about this point, and when he is in a position to make that announcement I will urge him to make it as soon as is practicable. 
I do not have the information that  Senator Wright  seeks, the matter not being handled by me. But I remind  Senator Wright  that whatever decision we make here, the final act in effecting a double dissolution rests at Yarralumla with the GovernorGeneral. Therefore, whatever we might say could still be rejected. That decision rests with the Governor-General. I think that we are completely at one when we say that the first steps for a double dissolution will be taken in this chamber, but the final decision has to be made by the Governor-General. Therefore, the date of a double dissolution is not really in our hands. 
Although we are very confident that there will be a double dissolution, who knows what will happen? I have long ago given up trying to forecast what will happen in the field of politics. Much as we are confident that a double dissolution will occur, one can never be completely certain that it will occur. That will depend on the Governor-General's decision. I know that the last person who forgot to nominate as a candidate for an election was not a member of our Party, but we are not infallible and some members of our Party may follow in those footsteps. I am as anxious as  Senator Wright  to ensure that the decision is made public as quickly as possible. I agree with  Senator Wright  regarding the question of fairness. I think that this would apply to everybody, but it would have some bearing on the specific case that he has mentioned. I think that fairness should be shown to everybody. I inform  Senator Wright  that this matter will be carefully noted and that I will convey it to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, W. G. Henderson and J. W. Robson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on the 12th day of March 1974, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of 'Tangney ' be substituted for 0'Connor' 
The Government has now considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Western Australia, together with the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners in pursuance of sections 18 (A) and 2 1 respectively of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, and has decided to recommend approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals, in the expectation that both Houses will ensure that the Governor-General may be enabled to proclaim this redistribution at an early date. Such an action will ensure that the people of Western Australia are able to elect the 10 members of the House of Representatives to which they are entitled. 
The possibility that the people of Western Australia may be required to vote for the House of Representatives earlier that the Distribution Commissioners may have expected has, in the Government's view, simply given additional urgency to the need for action in this matter. This will presumably be one matter upon which the Government and all Opposition parties in both Houses can agree.The Government has noted that the Distribution Commissioners' final proposals are virtually unchanged as compared with those published in October 1973, despite the substantial body of criticism made by the various political parties, individual parliamentarians and other competent or interested citizens. 
The Government wishes to voice what it considers to be 3 valid grounds for criticism, though these grounds, taken either singly or together, are not in the Government's view sufficiently serious to warrant rejection of the overall proposals, particularly given the present requirements for equitable Western Australian representation in the House of Representatives. The Government's reservations, all or some of which are shared by people outside the Labor Party, can be summarised as follows: Firstly, while it is pleasing to note that the previous and existing inequalities in voting power as between the electors in various Divisions have, on the whole, been reduced- this refers not just to inequalities between urban and rural electorates, but also among urban electorates themselvesthe position is still unsatisfactory. 
The Commissioners have seen fit to vary the proposed Kalgoorlie Division by 15.57 per cent below quota and the proposed Swan Division by 14. 12 per cent over, although the variations from the quota have lessened in both cases since July 1973, and now stand at about 1 1 per cent under and 12 per cent over the quota respectively. Had the next House of Representatives election in Western Australia not been held until 1975, it is likely that the gap between enrolments in these 2 Divisions would have closed considerably. Both of them would have come under 10 per cent variation from the quota. However, it would have been preferable for the situation to have taken place immediately. Incidentally, this comment relating to the inequality of voting power between electors in Kalgoorlie and Swan is not based on party political considerations, but on the consideration of equal voting power, as nearly as is practicable, for all Australians, irrespective of their place of residence. These 2 divisions are represented in the House of Representatives by Australian Labor Party members. 
At least the situation under the new boundaries will be more tolerable than at present, with nearly 80,000 electors in the existing Division of Stirling as against some 55,000 in the existing Division of Forrest, based on enrolments at the end of March 1974 for the existing 9 divisions. The Government regards as intolerable this present degree in inequality among Western Australian electors, even though it is not so brazen as in the State Parliament, where Legislative Assembly seat enrolments vary from about 2,000 to 21,000 and Legislative Council from 6,000 to 88,000. 
Secondly, the Government also considers that Distribution Commissioners could well have exercised a little more imagination and flexibility with regard to the need to split up certain existing subdivisions, particularly one or two in the outer metropolitan area, such as the Subdivision of Pearce, which has gained an enrolment increase of over 30 per cent since July 1973. To a lesser degree, this criticism could also be applied to the Commissioners' decision to reject suggestions relating to the possibility of splitting one or two inner metropolitan subdivisions, such as Mount Hawthorn and Joondanna, in order to satisfy more completely the 'community of interest' principle. However, in this respect, the Government acknowledges that such anomalies are less striking than in some previous redistributions. Thirdly, related to the points I have just raised, the Government also considers that, in particular, the Commissioners have proposed inappropriate boundaries between Moore and Stirling divisions, although some improvement as compared with the present situation has been made with regard to the boundaries between Perth and Moore and Swan and Moore divisions respectively, though even in the latter case, it should have been possible to include more of the northeast urban corridor areas in a metropolitan electorate. The Commissioners, unfortunately for the present honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  have failed to allow for the rapid rate of population growth in the southern portion of the Pearce Subdivision, not to mention substantial growth in the Kalamunda Subdivision. Hence, there is already the situation where the supposedly rural electorate of Moore contains mainly metropolitan electors, and has already outstripped the adjacent inner metropolitan electorate of Stirling in number of electors. 
The new member will have a difficult task of serving the electorate covering both rural areas and many rapidly expanding outer metropolitan areas, while the member for Stirling will serve fewer electors, all of them in the metropolitan area. I merely note that this seems to be a rather odd interpretation of the obligations imposed on the Commissioners by the criteria contained in section 19 Sub-section 2, of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It is also contrary to their views on the provisions of section 19 Sub-section 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in Curtin, Kalgoorlie and Swan Divisions. 
In view of the constant criticism by Liberal and Country Party members of the electoral policy of the Australian Labor Party, it is interesting to note that the 'West Australian' on 19 October 1973 had this to say about the original proposals which remain practically unchanged: 
At first assessment there appears little fault to find with redistribution proposals. 
It went on to say: 
The distribution proposals have still to run the gauntlet of objections before they reach Canberra. But there does not appear to be need for a major change. No Party has much to complain about. 
Finally, as regards the naming of the new tenth division, the Government has given due consideration to the suggestions made by various people, including the Commissioners. The names of an eminent deceased engineer, Aboriginal tracker and Country Party Prime Minister have been among those mentioned. The Government is also aware that various explorers and pioneers, not to mention deceased colonial governors, have been honoured in this way. However, it has been decided on this occasion to honour a living person, who was indeed a pioneer in a very real sense. I refer to Dame Dorothy Tangney, who relinquished her teaching career in Western Australia to become the first woman member of the Commonwealth Senate in 1943, and serving West Australians, and Australia as a whole, with exemplary dedication for 25 years, during which time she held many responsible positions, including that of Temporary Chairman of Committees in the Senate. The Government is delighted to have this opportunity to honour a distinguished West Australian in this fitting manner. 

 - Senator Drake-Brockman raised the point why this motion was not put before the Senate some time ago in view of the fact that we had mentioned it prior to the election. The reason is that twice previously we put an electoral Bill before this Senate and it was rejected. Had that Bill been accepted on the first occasion this matter would have been before the Senate so much sooner. 
It would have been different because a very democratic Bill which now has been rejected would have been passed. That is the reason for the timing. Obviously, as we had hoped to amend the Electoral Act, there was not much point in going on with a redistribution in Western Australia under the old Act. We hoped that there would be a new Act in accordance with the principles which we also laid down prior to the election. In passing  Senator Withers  asked whether this was the first time that an electorate had been named after a senator. As far as we can remember it is, but we will find out and certainly let the honourable senator know. 
This raises the question of the policy and the principle behind the naming of seats. Is an electorate to be named after one type of person? It seems to me that this is a matter of somebody's opinion. I asked for a report but I asked for it too late. It is my fault that I do not have it. I seem to remember that an all-party committee looked at this question some time ago. I do not remember its conclusions but, if I remember correctly, one conclusion which disappointed me- this is the point which  Senator Withers  also raised- related to geographic names. The committee was pretty heavily against that. Frankly, I am pretty heavily for that. For example, consider the seat of Leichhardt. What does that name mean to anybody who is not a very good historian and who knows the story of Leichhardt? It is hardly an Irish name. It seems to me that that seat would be better named Cairns. In fact, whenever I introduce my very good friend Bill Fulton to strangers I always introduce him as the member for Cairns because that immediately registers something with people. I am all for the use of geographic names because they denote areas and locations. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman seemed to tend towards the name C. Y. O'Connor. One can see his statue on the Fremantle wharf which he built. 
That was his first major job in Western Australia. He was also responsible for what was considered by many people to be a completely impossible project in those days, namely, the pipeline to Kalgoorlie. Criticism of this project brought about his tragic end. These are monuments in themselves to this man. But I accept completely that this matter becomes one of opinion. We have decided on, and the Opposition has graciously accepted that we use, the name Tangney. It is a question of policy. Sometimes I wish that this were laid down a little more clearly as happens with some suburbs, streets and that type of thing. I thank  Senator Sim  for his comments and the recent report on our old friend Dorothy Tangney. I am sorry to hear that she is in illhealth. It has dogged her over many years. As  Senator Sim  rightly points out, it just does not seem to make any difference to her personality. I thank all honourable senators for their help in relation to this motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I seek leave to make a very short statement associated with a question I was asked this morning. 
There is a protocol covering this matter, and I shall find out the details for the honourable senator. 
-Yes. Our Ambassador in Portugal has been in touch with the Portuguese Government about this matter. 
-The answer to the first question is no, I did not see the report. The answer to the second question is no, I do not think the Australian Democratic Labor Party is right. 
For the information of honourable senators I table a statement concerning my attendance at the Fifth South Pacific Forum held at Rarotonga, Cook Islands on 20 to 22 March 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I wish to make 2 short announcements for the benefit of honourable senators. Firstly, I make the suggestion that this Bill be debated concurrently with Appropriation Bill (No. 3)- which is order of the day No. 7- and with Appropriation Bill (No. 5). Of course the votes would be taken separately as if the Bills were being debated separately. I think it would truncate debate and be for the convenience of honourable senators if the Bills are debated concurrently. 
in replySenator Wright said that this matter was subject to the consent of the Parliament, although it is an appropriation Bill. He acknowledged that fact and pointed to the difficulties associated with an appropriation Bill. The provision of allowances by regulations is consistent with the provisions included in Bills establishing new offices. An old clause in regulations was picked up in Acts. It has been picked up in this Bill which relates to members of tribunals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I was about to make some comment like that. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains a lot of figures. Copies of the second reading speech have been distributed to honourable senators. I suggest that it may be proper, in the circumstances, to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
Certain other measures are under discussion between the Australian and New South Wales Governments and allowance has been made for costs in this legislation. The overall cost of the measures is estimated at $ 14.1m. After allowing for expenditure which will be met by the State from its own resources, the expected cost to the Australian Government is $5.5m. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-The question of ANZUS did not arise in the discussions on the request or suggestion by some scientists, when they were here recently, that a scientific base be established. A scientific body came from the USSR and had discussions with our scientific people. We intend to sign a pact with them on the whole question of co-operating in science. Arising out of that discussion, they repeated something that they had said in 1971, 1 think, in which they suggested that we might co-operate in looking at things in the sky and that type of thing. Following that, when we were seeking information, talks went on between the American Ambassador and my Department. The question of ANZUS did not come into the talks. It was a question of discussions at this level. It is very clear that if there is any military connotation in this matter it will be rejected by us. 
It is very difficult when one is dealing with people suffering from paranoia. As I understand it,  Senator Greenwood  says that I should have rejected this out of hand but that I have examined it too quickly, that somehow or other I have examined it too quickly but that I should have done it without any consideration at all. I have brought this statement in here because I always take the angle that while Parliament is sitting I should report to Parliament first, if it is at all possible. If I had wanted to play a political stunt, as I am accused by these paranoid people, I would have kept this for the next 48 hours until Parliament got up and then issued it on Easter Sunday night or at some such time or used it at the time. 
What did I say about this thing from the very start? Firstly,, an article appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald. Then, when I was at a Cabinet meeting in Melbourne on Monday last, I was approached by, I think, representatives of the entire media to appear on TV and radio and to give Press interviews. I said that this matter would be examined. I will not have the Press of Australia make up my mind for me or demand answers off the cuff from me. Neither will I say to a friendly power, much as our paranoid friends opposite may hate it because it has a communist government with which they and we have had friendly relations, that I reject something out of hand before I have had a look at it. The honourable senator is complaining that we did not look at it. We have had a week to look at it. The instruction to my Department was that I wanted some sort of report within a week and, if that was not sufficient time, that it was to go back and examine it further. However, we were able to examine it within one week. This Government cannot understand the attitude of the Opposition. It is like  Senator Greenwood's  attitude to the Croats. He let that situation go on for years without doing anything about it. He knew perfectly well that there were bombs exploding in the street. But that was all right. He took the attitude; let us wait to do something about it. What the Opposition does not like about this Government is that it acts. It does something about it. Involved in the examination of this matter were people who know something about science, people trained in defence and in foreign affairs. When that sort of ability is applied to the problem one can get a lot done within a week. At the end of that week the Government in the Parliament announced that it was advising that country and this Parliament that our decision was not to do anything about it. 
The Opposition then says that it was a short examination, 'you should go on with it because of the election'. This shows the complete paranoia of the Opposition. As I said the other night, the Opposition takes this cold war angle: If there is a country which is left wing, socialist or communist we must have nothing to do with it; we must treat it as a pariah. It suggests that we should draw a line and say that we Australians on this side are pure and on the side of the angels, and everybody on the other side is completely bad. 
-I know that  Senator Little  is a defender of Rhodesia and South Africa. I know of his cold war attitudes. All he wants to do is bomb out of the world countries with whose policies he does not agree. Let him go ahead. He should have mounting arms and nuclear power. The Opposition asks us to reject this out of hand and then criticises us when we examine it for only a week. It says: 'That is not long enough ', but how does it know? When the 2 super powers of the world today, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, combine in space research I suppose honourable members opposite would say, if they were sitting in Congress, that  President  Nixon would be a communist as also would  Dr Kissinger  and everybody else there; therefore, they are not even to be talked about. What the Opposition grabbed at today was a time-wasting procedure. It does not know what it is about. All it wanted to do was jump on this matter in a state of paranoia. Look at these great parties of principle. The Democratic Labor Party was formed by people who left the Australian Labor Party because of great principle. They were to stand out on their own. Where do we find them now? Firstly, co-operating with the Australian Country Party and then running around, hat in hand, pleading with the Liberal Party: 'Save us from destruction'. Where are their principles now? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Senator Wright's motion is obviously flaunting the Government's direction from the GovernorGeneral. The Governor-General has instructed the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to ensure that the business of the country can be carried on, that there is a supply of money to carry out the ordinary works and services of this country. The Governor-General instructed the Prime Minister to come back to the Parliament and carry out that instruction. When  Senator Wright  starts these delaying tactics, of which we have seen so much over the last few days, obviously he is defying what the Governor-General has said. I remind  Senator Wright  that it is one thing to use such tactics in the context of the normal operations of this Parliament. He may think he is quite smart and clever. But now we are in a situation where we are trying to carry out the instructions of the Governor-General by getting these Bills through before every member of this Parliament submits himself and herself to his or her masters.  Senator Wright  is obviously trying to delay, frustrate and defy what the GovernorGeneral has said. 
The other point was that  Senator Wright  was demanding to know the schedule, the issue of writs and the rest of it for the election. I have not replied to that question up until now because I have been trying to obtain some information for  Senator Wright.  As I understand the position, until this Parliament carries out the directions of the Governor-General and the final act is carried out and we go to a double dissolution, those dates cannot be fixed. If I find anything different from that I shall inform  Senator Wright.  The way we are going at the moment it looks as if there will be some sort of defiance of the Governor-General 's decision. If we do not pass these Supply Bills we cannot have a double dissolution. As I understand it, Opposition members have been wanting a double dissolution and this is what we would like to give them. If they are to continue frustrating and delaying, it does not seem that they are very genuine in the first place. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
-The reason why I did not make this statement before is that it would have been completely out of order to do so as it has nothing to do with the Bill before the House. I try to keep some things in order. When we were talking yesterday about the question of dates I said that it was impossible to give the dates as we did not know when the election would be, but I promised  Senator Wright  that I would do my best to have this information supplied to the public and everybody concerned as soon as possible. That has been done. We are now getting a little closer to the situation and it is still not a final act. By the way in which we are going on we are not carrying out very expeditiously what the Governor-General has suggested. I have asked for a note on the 2 questions. They are the questions of the date of the elections and whether or not this would be of some detriment to a  Mr Hodgman.  The Prime Minister has advised that the reason he has not announced the date of the elections is that he must consult the Chief Electoral Officer before advising the GovernorGeneral of the possible dates and also that there are formalities which need to be worked out. For example, there are pending State elections such as the election for the Legislative Council in Tasmania which require careful examination as to possible dates. Also, because each State has an 
Act providing for the election of senators and because many of these Acts have different requirements, the Prime Minister has had to consult the Chief Electoral Officer about the dates for the issue of writs and the closure of nominations to see that the dates chosen meet the requirements of each State. 
The other question, that involving  Mr Hodgman,  caused some interest and some accusations were made in relation to it. I am advised that because of the provisions which need to be met in respect of the South Australian Senate Elections and probably the Electoral Acts of other States, there will be a timetable which will enable  Mr Hodgman  to nominate for the seat of Denison should he wish to do so and provided he acts promptly upon the calling of nominations. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 3 agreed to. 
Postponed clause 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
That this Bill be reported without requests. 
Question resolved in the affirmative; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make interim provision for the appropriation of moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government for the first 5 months of the financial year 1974-75. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,804,284,000 for the following services: (a) Civil Departmental Services, $1,156,869,000; (b) Defence Services, $587,415,000; (c) Advance to the Treasurer, $60m. Estimates for salaries and payments in the nature of salary are based on current rates of pay and existing staff numbers. As with the Supply Act (No. 1 ) 1973-74 and Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973-74, the Bill provides for a special appropriation clause to cover such increases in salaries and wages which may become payable after 1 April 1 974. 
The amounts sought for administrative expenses and other services are basically fivetwelfths of the estimates for similar services in 1973-74. An amount of $60m is proposed to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks an interim provision of $5 13m for expenditure during the first 5 months of 1974-75 on Capital Works and Services, Payments To or For the States and. Other Services. Amounts totalling $377.506m for Capital Works and Services are to meet continuing commitments on buildings and works, plant and equipment. They include $45m for expenditure under the National Capital Development Commission Act, $42. 5m for Defence Service homes and $100m for expenditure under the Post and Telegraph Act. 
The Bill also seeks a total of $74.894m for Payments To or For the States, based on the existing arrangements for those approved payments which are made from annual appropriations. An amount of $60m is proposed to enable the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available for expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of up to $66m to assist the State of Queensland in financing the cost of measures designed to alleviate the effects of the disastrous floods which occurred in that State between January and March of this year. This figure is based on the latest estimates of costs supplied by the State; it represents a reduction of some $ 14m on earlier estimates. In terms of hardship and damage, the floods were one of the largest, if not the largest, disasters that has occurred in this country. 
It may be of assistance to honourable senators if I outline here the response of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to a question put to him in another place on 5 March. The Treasurer said that the assistance which the Australian Government was providing to assist those who had suffered as a result of the flooding and to restore damage to public assets was on a far more extensive and liberal scale than on any previous occasion. He referred to the praiseworthy work of the defence forces in helping with evacuations, providing emergency supplies and in other ways assisting to minimise or alleviate hardship. He referred also to the special services which were being provided by the Department of  Social  Security, the offer of temporary accommodation help by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  the assistance from other departments and the donations totalling $600,000 that the Australian Government had made to public relief funds. The Treasurer mentioned, in addition, that private donations of $2 or more to these and other public funds are allowable deductions for income tax purposes resulting in a significant pan of such donations falling on the Australian Government Budget. However, by far the largest call on government funds will be made by measures which the Queensland Government has implemented with the agreement of the Australian Government, and which the State is administering. 
At the onset of the floods, the Australian Government offered to provide financial assistance to the Queensland Government to enable appropriate relief and restoration measures to be undertaken by it. The measures which have been agreed between the government include grants for immediate relief and emergency house repairs, grants and loans for major repairs or rebuilding of private homes, loans to floodaffected primary producers and business firms, and expenditure on the restoration of public assets destroyed or damaged in the floods. 
The Bill provides that the conditions of the Financial Assistance which the Australian Government is providing are to be as the Treasurer determines. The Australian Government's financial assistance to the State will be provided by way of grants where the expenditure by the State on the agreed relief and rehabilitation measures takes the form of grants, and by way of interest-free loans where the expenditure takes the form of loans. With the indulgence of the Senate, I shall have details of the various categories of assistance, showing estimated expenditures on each, incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable senators will be aware, the severe flooding which occurred in the early part of the year affected New South Wales as well as Queensland. The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of up to $5.5m to assist the State of New South Wales in financing the cost of measures designed to alleviate the effects of the floods. The damage caused by the flooding in New South Wales, although not as widespread or as devastating as in Queensland, nevertheless caused considerable hardship and suffering to those involved and the Australian Government expressed its readiness to assist the New South 
Wales Government in providing aid to those affected. 
The assistance authorised by this Bill is considerably less than that authorised by the Bill relating to Queensland. This can be ascribed to 2 factors: Firstly, because of the lesser extent of the disaster, the range of measures for which the New South Wales Government sought financial support from the Australian Government was not as extensive as in the case of Queensland, and, secondly, the expenditure on relief measures which the State Government is meeting from its own resources is greater in New South Wales than in Queensland. Particulars of estimated expenditure have been supplied by the New South Wales Government authorities and I ask that they be incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision that there should be a distribution of the surplus of $70,015,000 as at 30 June 1972 disclosed by the tenth quinquennial investigation of the Superannuation Fund, into which are paid the contributions under the Superannuation Act made by Australian Government employees. Honourable senators will recall that on 21 November 1973 I tabled the Superannuation Board 's report on the investigation, which was undertaken by the Australian Government Actuary. The Board's report included the report of the Actuary. The surplus of $70,015,000 as at 30 June 1972 included the undistributed surplus as at 30 June 1967 of $14,779,000 which by 30 June 1972 had accumulated to $ 1 9,749,000. The Actuary stated that $52,525,000 of the total surplus was attributable to contributors and $17,490,000 to pensioners. 
The surplus arose principally because the Fund had earned at a higher rate than the future long term average earning rate of 5 per cent assumed by the Actuary for the purpose of his previous investigation and by the Actuary's assuming a higher future long term average earning rate, 5.5 per cent, for the purpose of the tenth quinquennial investigation. It follows from this that members contribution rates are now higher than necessary to finance their shares of the benefits provided under the existing scheme but no adjustment of contribution rates is contemplated pending a final decision by the Government on the new superannuation scheme proposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I should add that the Government does not pay contributions into the Fund concurrently with members. The Government meets its share of the cost of benefits when the benefits are paid. 
The principles adopted in the Bill are similar to those followed in the 1965 legislation covering the distribution of the surplus in the Fund as at 30 June 1962. As on that occasion, the total amount distributed will include an additional amount in the nature of further surplus that has accrued in the Fund since 1 July 1972 in respect of the surplus of $70,0 1 5,000. Subject to passage of the legislation, the Superannuation Board expects that it will be able to make payments to pensioners during September-October and to contributors before the end of this Year. The payments will, of course, be made from the Superannuation Fund and will not be a charge against Consolidated Revenue or the Budget. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill deals with remuneration and allowances for certain statutory office holders. Honourable senators will recall that in 1971 the then Minister for Health,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, gave an undertaking that remuneration and allowances paid on an annual basis to various statutory office holders would be specified by Act of Parliament. This was in accordance with the wishes of the Senate. This Government followed a similar practice when it introduced legislation dealing with the establishment of new statutory offices. The practice has been for legislation to provide for the determination of remuneration by regulation until a specified date, after which the remuneration must be specified in an Act of Parliament. The need for this policy has been overtaken by the establishment of the Remuneration Tribunal last year. That Tribunal is now responsible for undertaking reviews of the remuneration of statutory office holders and others. It will do this at least once a year. Its determinations and reports will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, in accordance with the terms of the Remuneration Tribunal Act. 
This Bill is necessary to cover certain statutory office holders established before the Remuneration Tribunal Act was passed. Without passage of the Bill there will be no provision by which salary payments may be made after 1 July 1 974. All the Bill does is allow existing remuneration to continue to be paid in accordance with regulations until a determination is made by the Remuneration Tribunal. This will ensure that the existing rates of remuneration continue to be payable should there be no determination by the Remuneration Tribunal before 1 July 1974. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-On 14 March 1974,  Senator Wright  asked  Senator Murphy  a series of questions without notice concerning the history and operations of the Australian Loan Council and the implications for local government bodies of access to the Loan Council arrangements. 
The Treasurer has advised that the Financial Agreement between the Australian Government and the six State Governments, which formally set up the Loan Council and defined its functions, was agreed on 12 December 1927. Subsequently, the Australian Constitution was altered by the insertion of section 105 A, which was approved by referendum dated 17 November 1928 and was assented to on 15 February 1929. The Agreement was subsequently validated by each of the seven Parliaments. 
The Loan Council comprises representatives of the Australian and State Governments. At its annual meeting, usually in June each year, it determines the amount that can be borrowed by the Australian Governments during the ensuing financial year (except borrowings for defence purposes) on reasonable terms and conditions and divides this amount between the member Governments. It also decides the terms on which loans are raised under the approved borrowing programs of the Australian and State Governments. 
Under the Financial Agreement, all such loans (with limited exceptions) are raised by the Australian Government- both on its own behalf and on behalf of the States. The avoidance of competition between Governments in raising funds and the high credit rating established by the Australian Government as a borrower in both domestic and overseas markets have helped to minimise borrowing costs. 
There is also a voluntary arrangement, known as the Gentlemen's Agreement, between members of the Loan Council designed to regulate borrowings by semi-government bodies and local authorities. 
It is not possible to forecast with any precision the effect on the amount of loan money available from the market of giving local government direct access to the Loan Council arrangements. However, in so far as borrowings which would otherwise have been undertaken direct by local government borrowers were to be undertaken by the Australian Government on their behalf, the cost of these borrowings could be expected to be lower. 
-Senator Carrick was quite right in his reference to the continuing drought. As honourable senators know, a little while ago it was concentrated in the area of Ethiopia and across the belt through Chad and Mauritania. Unfortunately the drought has been shifting further south with a lot of side effects, such as the spreading of the Sahara Desert.  Senator Carrick  asked what has been done in the last 3 months. I wish he had said  Vh  months because  3y2  months ago we gave an additional $100,000 to the Sahelian Trust Fund. I looked at a paper only yesterday, after I had returned from overseas, as to further contributions in that respect. That is separate from the amount of nearly Sim that we gave to the Ethiopian area. The answer is yes, we gave an additional amount of 5100,000 in March of this year and we have the matter under very close surveillance. We are also watching what the general contributions will be. My disposition at the moment is to link the contribution with those general contributions about which I understand we will be hearing in a very short space of time. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry regarding the training of seagoing personnel. 
The general context of the question was on  Mr Hartley's  recent visit to the Middle East. It was a private visit which in no way had the backing of the Australian Labor Party or the Government. I could not quite understand that part of the question which referred to the trade union movement. The point is that no application for representation in Australia has been made by anybody from the Middle East beyond the normal diplomatic representatives we have here. If an application is made it will be examined and a decision will be given. 
-Of course nobody will try to bring terrorists and people who are likely to commit terrorist activities into Australia. We have no application for representation from anybody in the Middle East, apart from the normal countries which are represented here. When an application is made we will examine who it is from, what it is from and what it is all about, and we will then give a decision. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I introduce into the Senate for the third time a Bill to provide for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill now before the Senate is in identical form to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill previously introduced. Honourable senators have had ample opportunity to consider the provisions of the Bill. However, I will briefly outline the proposals contained in the Bill, and its purpose. The Bill provides for the election of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and that such senators have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States; that the first election of Territory senators be held at the same time as the next Senate elections in the several States or at the same time as the next general elections for members of the House of Representatives, if such is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate elections; that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election for Territory senators, elections be held at the same time as the general elections for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election of Territory senators, the terms of Territory senators be the period between each House of Representatives election; and for the Territory senators to be elected under the same system of proportional representation as that currently applicable to the election of senators representing the States, except in the case of a single casual vacancy when such vacancy shall be filled by the holding of a byelection adopting the procedures used for filling a single casual vacancy for a State senator, as far as may be applicable. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide a measure of representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory in the Senate, giving some meaningful expression to section 122 of the Constitution in respect of the Senate as an integral part of this Parliament. Such representation is clearly permissible. Section 122 of the Constitution provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
We believe that, while the national Parliament remains bicameral, the people of the Territories, like all the people of Australia, should be represented in both chambers. We tried to bring this about in Opposition and we are determined to achieve it in Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when Leader of the Opposition, introduced private members Bills in 1968 and 1970 to provide for representation of the Territories in the Senate. Both Bills were taken to the second reading stage but no vote on either Bill was allowed. The Labor Government recently gave the Australian Capital Territory a second member for the House of Representatives.  Mr President,  in our system of government, where all measures must pass through both Houses of Parliament before becoming law, it is quite extraordinary that the people of the Territories should be allowed representation in one chamber but denied representation in the other. We believe that the people of the Territories should have a voice in the Senate when it debates motions concerning the Territories, and that senators from the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory should sit on parliamentary Committees which deal with matters affecting the Territories. It is not only the Labor Party which supports Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. Since 1967 the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council has been pressing for Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory. At its meeting on 11 December 1967 the following resolution was carried: 
This Council advises the Minister that the Australian Capital Territory should be allowed representation in Senate and seeks the Minister's assurance that he will do everything possible to persuade the Government to introduce the necessary legislation in Parliament in order that citizens of this Territory are no longer denied adequate and proper Parliamentary representation. 
Even the Australian Capital Territory Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party is reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 17 May 1973, under the heading 'Libs Want Two A.C.T. Senators', as supporting this proposal. The Legislative Council of the Northern Territory has sought Senate representation for the Northern Territory on several occasions over many years. In 1969, the Legislative Council asked by resolution for the representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate by 2 senators. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is recorded as saying during the course of his speech in the House of Representatives on 29 May 1973-Hansard, page 2804: 
In speaking to this Bill I point out that in 1966 Senate Representation for the Northern Territory was on my platform and it has been ever since . . . 
The constitutional position with regard to the power vested in this Parliament to provide representation for the 2 Territories as proposed by this Bill is clear. I have already quoted section 122 of the Constitution. The Parliament may allow the representation of such Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. The founders of the Constitution obviously recognised the simple justice of the notion that, since the Parliament would make laws for the Territories, the citizens of the Territories should have a voice in that Parliament. Anything else would be a denial of the most fundamental right which a democratic nation allows its citizens. The position of the Territories is becoming more urgent each year. Each in its own way is a vital and expanding part of Australia. The population of each Territory is increasing rapidly. Two senators are suggested because it would be proper to have an even number representing the Territories. If only one senator represented a Territory, almost certainly the one party would be represented for long periods. It is not unlikely that the senator for each Territory would belong to the same party. It would appear then to be more just to have an even number elected each time for each Territory, thus allowing the representation of the parties to be more evenly balanced than would be the case if only one senator for each Territory were provided. 
With regard to term of office proposed by the Bill for Territory senators I would remind honourable senators that 16 years ago the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties were represented, recommended that there should be an election for half the senators every time there was a general election for the House of Representatives. Bringing elections for Territory senators into line with House of Representatives elections accords with the recommendation of that Committee. Under the provisions of the Bill, after the first election of Territory senators, both senators for each Territory will be elected each time there is a general election of the House of Representatives. Consequently in respect of representatives of the Territories there will be elections for both Houses of Parliament at the same time. 
The Bill before the Senate proposes an increase in the number of senators by 4 making a total of 64 senators in all. On the basis of advice by the Commonwealth legal advisors, the provision of Territory senators under section 122 of the Constitution does not cause an alteration in the number of members of the House of 
Representatives by virtue of section 24. Consequently, the proposed Territory senators will be excluded in determining the number of members to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. This will be made clear by proposed amendments of the Representation Act contained in the Representation Bill. 
This Bill when it becomes law will give effect to the Government's announced policy, and its undertaking to provide representation in the Senate for the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory- representation to which they are justly entitled. It is presented for a third time to meet the constitutional requirements for it to become law following the recent double dissolution of Parliament. It has been unquestionably endorsed by the Australian people and I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Jessop)  adjourned. 
( 3.38)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion Bill to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. Its main purpose is to amend the formula in the Representation Act under which the number of members of the House of Representatives for the several States is determined. This Bill is in identical form to the Representation Bill 1973 twice rejected by the Senate, firstly on 7 June 1973 and secondly on 14 November 1973. It is another of the 6 Bills which provided the grounds for the recent double dissolution of the Parliament. As honourable senators would know, the Constitution provides, in section 24, that the House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of members shall be as nearly as practicable twice the number of Senators. Section 24 further provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people, and the section goes on to specify the manner in which that number is to be determined 'until the Parliament otherwise provides'. Parliament has otherwise provided by the Representation Act. The Government's legal advice is that section 24 of the Constitution does not have application in relation to senators who may be provided for a Territory under the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution. In other words, the requirement contained in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators does not relate to Territory members or senators provided under section 122 of the Constitution. Furthermore, 'the people of the Commonwealth' in the context of section 24 are the people of the States. 
The formula in section 10 of the Representation Act for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States, sets out that a quota shall be ascertained by dividing the number of people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators. The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people of the State by the quota; and if on such division there is a remainder, one more member shall be chosen in the State. 
Clause 3 of the Bill before the Senate makes it clear that in applying the formula provided in section 10 'the people of the Commonwealth' are the people of the 6 States and do not include the people of any Territory. 
Clause 5 of the Bill which substitutes the words 'the Senators for the States' for the word Senators', makes it clear that Territory senators are excluded from the formula for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. Thus, consistently with section 24 of the Constitution, the introduction of Territory senators will not affect the representation of the States in the House of Representatives. 
Opportunity is being taken in clauses 4 and 6 of the Bill to make some amendments of a formal nature to sections 7 and 13 of the Representation Act. The present provisions of these sections do not take into account the fact that one House of the Parliament may be sitting although the other is not. At the same time it is desirable to bring the period within which regulations are to be tabled under sub-section (2) of section 13 into line with the period of 15 sitting days provided by the Acts Interpretation Act in relation to regulations generally. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Jessop)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report of the Interdepartmental Committee on the 
Review of the Public Works Committee Act, dated June 1974. 
-I think everybody is concerned about the recent events in Cyprus. Our latest reports are that the situation there is still very confused. The fate of President Makarios is still uncertain, although the latest report would seem to indicate that he is still alive. As the Senate would know, we have had a police contingent in Cyprus since 1 964. According to the last report of the Secretary-General it numbered 35 people. Inspector Kelly, of the New South Wales Police Force, who is in charge of the contingent, has reported that they are in no danger. Because we have people there, obviously we are supporting the mandate of the Secretary-General. That mandate reads: 
In the interests of preserving international peace and security to use its best efforts to prevent a recurrence of fighting and, as necessary, to contribute to the maintenance and restoration of law and order and a return to normal conditions. 
The mandate that was granted to the SecretaryGeneral in 1964 was originally for 3 months. It has now been extended to the end of this year. According to the last report I have had, there has been no request for the Security Council to take action. Because it is firmly in the hands of the Secretary-General I would agree that that is where the central thrust should take place should anything fresh happen. We are keeping in very close touch with our Ambassador there,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre. He will advise us, depending on the situation in Cyprus, whether the Security Council should meet to ascertain whether there should be any fresh initiatives or whether the forces there at the moment can get the situation back to one of law and order. 
in replySenator Wright closed by saying that other honourable senators had spoken ably on this Bill. They should have done so; they have had 3 opportunities to practise and they have said the same thing over and over again. This Bill has now been put up for debate 6 times in this Parliament- 3 times in another place and 3 times here. As I say, members of the Opposition have had plenty of practice. They have said the same thing each time, so they ought to be getting good at it. The Bill that we are debating is based on the question of whether there should be a tolerance of 20 per cent or 10 per cent and the other things that follow, including how the numbers should be distributed and the instructions to be given to the electoral officer.  Senator Greenwood  went through those considerations very well. 
The 20 per cent variation came in first in 1902 when there were 4 million Australians, when 1 8- year - olds did not have the vote, when we did not have telecommunications or communications by road, rail and air and that sort of thing that we have today. Today we have a vastly different situation. The argument against the BUI seems to me to waffle. Honourable senators opposite have not quite made up their minds why it is that somebody in the country doing exactly the same work as somebody in the city is doing should have a vote which is two, three or four times the value of the person in the city. Firstly, honourable senators in the Australian Country Party, if I can define this, seem to say that country people are better citizens and that they ought to get this sort of arrangement. On the other hand,  Senator Wright  went closer to saying, evidently, that the member of Parliament should be in closer contact with his electors and the electors in closer contact with him. That argument, I think, would have been valid in 1902. 1 do not think it is valid today. Anybody with a grievance or with a genuine reason for approaching his member of Parliament can surely get in touch with him more conveniently now, because of the differences in communication, than he could during the first decade of the century. 

 Senator Wood made the point that this was not really an issue at the election, that the people had voted on all sorts or things-whether they liked the colour of one's tie or eyes or something like that. However, I do not think that  Senator Wood  would argue that this Bill was not pretty well thrashed out prior to and during the election. This, after all, was one of the 6 Bills on which the Governor-General gave the double dissolution to the Australian people. This is one of the Bills and others are associated with it. So I do not think anyone can really argue that this was not in the consciousness of the Australian people and that they did not vote quite clearly on this issue. 
The other argument that I have detected coming through, and I should say that I have detected it before in the debates, was that this would produce a situation where we would have frequent redistributions. What is wrong with that if it is going to give justice, if it is to keep as near as possible to one vote one value, to result in electorates of equal number? I do not know how people are going to vote, but I do not think that we want to get back to the situation that existed prior to the 1968 redistribution where in one State alone- Victoria- the seat of Melbourne had 31,000 electors and the seat of Bruce 130,000 electors. It seems to me that that sort of argument suggests that we ought to have more frequent redistributions than we have under the present system. 
I do not intend to speak for very long because, as I say, I would be doing what everybody else has done- reiterating and going back over old ground. This is a very clear situation which has been put before the Australian people. If the Opposition, as I have said, is going to vote against it I think that the sooner we have a vote the sooner we can carry out the rest of the constitutional processes to resolve this after our masters, the people, have spoken. It should be done quickly. 
I regret very much the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  when he referred to the seat of Stirling in Western Australia, the election for which resulted in a very close vote. He said there were fascinating errors in such a close election. That is a very clear smear against the civil servants who were counting the votes and who, as far as I have seen them over the years I have been associated with them, no matter how they themselves might have voted, have been devoted civil servants. I think that on reflection the honourable senator would regret what he said. He shakes his head and says that he does not regret it. I regret it very much. I condemn his saying it. It is a cowardly attack because the people against whom the attack was made cannot answer for themselves. It is a smear to say that because the 2 errors were made they are fascinating errors in such a close election. 
-I do not think it should be drawn in such a manner as to suggest that at least there could have been corruption or that there could have been a deliberate error. 
I ask honourable senators to judge whether that is so when it was said that the 2 errors were fascinating errors in such a close election. I leave it to any fair minded person to make up his mind what he thinks about it. It is character assassination. I believe that members of Parliament should be very careful about attacking people who cannot reply- and civil servants are in that unenviable position. 
The whole of this argument relates to whether there should be some electoral advantage to somebody.  Senator Wood  rather contradicted this when he pointed to the tremendous swings that occur in the Australian electorate. We have seen such swings in some seats even in the recent election. They have occurred in years including 1943, 1949, 1961 and 1972. There are tremendous swings. There is no such thing as putting a fence around yourself and saying: 'This is my seat forever'. I know that parliamentarians are very optimistic people. I have associated with them for a long time. A lot of those optimists are now outside the Parliament looking in because they thought that they were in seats from which they could never be shifted. I do not know, and I do not believe anybody else knows, how a person will vote. It does not matter whether they vote in an electorate which has one vote one value or whether their vote is worth 5 times that of somebody else. It is for the individual himself to say whether the Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the Country Party will benefit. It is sheer fantasy for anyone to say that they know how a person will vote. They do not know. 
We are trying to write into legislation some fair system that could be stood before the bar of world opinion. We often talk very glibly about some of the more unfortunate countries and we talk about the corruption that is rife in their daily life. It is corruption in high places when governments gerrymander a system to keep themselves in government. That is corruption with the backing of a government. There is no higher form of corruption. What the Labor Party has done, by calling a double dissolution in regard to this Bill, is to throw the shame of corruption and the shame of gerrymander for all time, we would hope, from the backs of the Austraiian people. 
Question put. 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report of the Committee on Integration of Data Systems which was forwarded to the Prime Minister, dated 31 March 1974. 
in replySenator Greenwood has stated what the Bill is all about. He advanced his own reasons on whether the Constitution is being applied. I hardly think that is the point. The point is that this Bill is the third of the Bills which are now before this Parliament for the third time. The Bills were the subject of the double dissolution. I think that by now we have gauged where the Opposition stands on this matter. I think by now the Opposition has gauged where we stand. The Constitution will have to be brought into effect finally to resolve something that the Opposition is not prepared to accept despite the decision of the people. I do not see any point in arguing this matter any further. I suggest that the question be put. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I saw the Press reports of  Dr Millar's  statement; I have not seen the context of his lecture. I think it is well known that for many years the Soviet Navy has been deploying ships in the Indian Ocean off the north-west coast of Western Australia. My information is that they do not come very close to the Australian coast. Russia also deploys ships on oceanographic research in both the Indian and Pacific oceans, as well as in Antarctica and elsewhere. I understand that  Dr Millar's  overall figures are broadly correct. 
Earlier  Senator Murphy  informed the Senate that our police force there reports that its members are quite safe and well and are not in any danger. The situation is still extremely fluid. The United Nations Security Council has met and, unfortunately, has adjourned without coming to any conclusions. We believe that the most immediate objective is to bring about a cease-fire and to get the position back to what the constitution was all about in 1 960. The second objective is to work for the restitution of constitutional government in Cyprus. I do not think that there is any doubt that Archbishop Makarios is still the constitutionally elected  President.  I do not think that there is any doubt that he still commands great support in Cyprus. One would hope that the nations which have special rights under the constitution of 1960- namely, Greece, Turkey and the United Kingdom- play their part responsibly and hold themselves in great restraint during what must be a tremendously difficult time. The British Foreign Minister has informed the House of Commons that Great Britain will inform the Greek Government that it would help to reduce tension if the Greek Government were to withdraw the Greek officers of the Cypriot National Guard from Cyprus, and the Australian Government agrees that this step would be a sound one. As I say, the situation is still extremely fluid. We are watching events very closely. I shall certainly let  Senator Georges  know if there are any further particulars from the Security Council. 
in reply- As we all know, this is the sixth time this Bill has been before the Parliament- 3 times in the other place and 3 times in the Senate- and the debate has not altered greatly.  Senator Wood  even read his speech of last year. At least he was more consistent and more accurate than anybody else and gave us word for word while other honourable senators relied on their memories. In the latter case perhaps the phraseology altered but the arguments did not. I have been listening to the debate, either here or by means of the  speaker  system in my office, but I have had to remind myself what this Bill is about. I think  Senator James  McClelland put well into place some of the extraneous arguments that have been raised about the Senate being a States' House and all the rest. I might even have to remind you,  Mr President,  what this Bill is all about because you have listened to far more of the debate than I have. It is a very simple Bill relating to the election of 2 senators from each of 2 Territories of Australia, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. This is perfectly valid constitutionally, as I stated in my second reading speech. I think  Senator Wood  adverted to this point and said that there is no argument about the constitutionality of this proposal. 
There is no argument about the views held by the founding fathers, as we like to call them from time to time, because one of the things they did, at least, was to look forward far enough to realise that this situation would arise in Australia at some time in its history. It has arisen and we are dealing with it. The national Parliament is of a bicameral character- that is, we have members forming a House of Representatives and we have members forming a Senate- and we are merely saying that the people who live in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are Australians who pay the same taxes and have the same rights as everybody else even though they live in those Territories.  Senator Wood  seemed to think that it would be a terrible thing if, this Bill having been passed and there being 2 senators from each of the Territories, at some future time some government increased the number of senators representing Territories, because in some way that would destroy this chamber as a States' House. I think one's imagination has to be pretty keen to think that somehow or other 4 senators from 2 Territories are going to swamp 60 other senators. It is quite beyond my imagination to envisage such a thing. 
The Government is doing a very simple thing. Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory representation in the House of Representatives has evolved over a period of time. First the 2 representatives concerned had limited voting rights but finally they took their places in the House of Representatives in the same way as other members from electorates in the Australian States and now they have the same voting rights. What we are seeking in this Bill is to provide somewhat the same situation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory as far as Senate representation is concerned. In other words, we are trying to treat the people in those Territories as Australians who are just the same as the Australians in the other States. That is all this Bill is about and it has taken the Senate a long time to recognise it. The debate certainly has strayed far and wide. It went back into the history of America and, for all I know, into the histories of a few other countries as well. All we are asking,  Mr President,  is that following a double dissolution- this was one of the Bills which was involved in the double dissolution, it was one of the Bills which was clearly in the minds of the Australian people and it was one of the Bills on which the Governor-General decided to give us a double dissolution- the Australian Capital 
Territory and the Northern Territory be brought somewhere into kilter with the States. 
I do not think there is any need for me to go over all the extraneous matters,  Mr President.  Knowing you, and you having known me for so long, you might be a little more harsh in your judgment and apply the Standing Orders against me. I suggest that the tripe that has been spoken in this debate is just nonsense. It is a simple Bill and it ought to be passed by the Senate, particularly in view of its history over the last 18 months. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
-I can answer that question in both my capacities, that is, as Minister for Foreign Affairs and as Minister representing the Special Minister of State. I agree with the eulogistic terms used in relation to  Dr Kissinger  I think everybody in the world is grateful for his tremendous energy and for the successes which he has had and which we hope he will have in the future. The question of an Australian honours award is a matter for the Department of the Special Minister of State. I shall convey the honourable senator's suggestion to the Minister and let the honourable senator have a reply when that Department is in a position to let me have one. 
-I shall find out the details for  Senator Young  and let him have them. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report and a statement by me relating to my recent visit to Latin America. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I am making this speech on behalf of  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture, who in this chamber is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  When I use the first person personal pronoun it is to be taken as referring to the Minister for Agriculture. This Bill provides a mining code being the legal framework for the exploration and exploitation of our offshore minerals resources in exercise of the Australian Government's sovereignty, proclaimed through the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973. Honourable senators will recall that the former Government clearly foreshadowed introduction of a mining code on 16 April 1970. This code was not introduced. The Seas and Submerged Lands Act Parts I and II are almost identical with the Bill introduced in 1970. The mining code in this Bill follows the text of that to which the then Minister for National Development referred. 
The Bill now before the Senate constituted Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 when it was first introduced into the Senate on 22 May 1973 after having been carried without amendment in another place. The Senate then adjourned debate by vote on division until after 1 August 1973. However, when the Senate failed to resume debate I introduced the Bill into this chamber the second time on 25 September 1973, after it had again been passed without amendment in the other place. The Senate subsequently passed it with amendment on 27 November 1 973, the amendment being the deletion of Part III of the Bill. 
In accepting the amendment deleting the mining code, the Minister for Minerals and Energy said the battle would go on. The Bill now before the Senate covers that part of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 which was rejected by the Senate in November 1973. In this respect there will be early proclamation under the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1 973 of baselines in parts of the New South Wales and Tasmanian coasts from which the Australian territorial sea should be measured. Many of the salient features of this Bill and the associated Royalty Bill were outlined in my second reading speech on the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill on 22 May 1973 and I see no point in covering the same ground again. The mining code embodied in the Bill will establish rules governing the exploration and exploitation of our offshore mineral resources and the issue of related titles.  Mr President,  the passage of this Bill will be a further significant state in the exercise of the Australian Government's sovereignty in respect of the offshore mining industry. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I am making this speech on behalf of  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture, who in this chamber is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  When I use the first person personal pronoun it is to be taken as referring to the Minister for Agriculture. 
This Bill which is consequential upon the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 was also introduced into the Senate on 22 May 1973, under the title 'Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill 1973', after it was carried without amendment in another place. The debate was then adjourned. Together with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 it was again passed without amendment in the other place and, when reintroduced into the Senate on 25 September 1973, it failed to pass when Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, containing the mining code, was deleted from that Bill. I now introduce the Bill again under the title Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill 1974' and commend it to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
-Senator Gietzelt has raised a matter which is of particular interest to me. I think that the figures which he mentioned in his question are broadly correct. He has put his finger on the problem that unfortunately there is no international convention on diplomatic asylum. What happened in Chile was that a number of embassies in Santiago were able to offer diplomatic asylum because they were signatories to the Caracas Convention. But that convention is peculiar to Latin America and countries outside that area are not signatories to the convention. A number of other embassies, including our own, were not so fortunately placed as the Latin American embassies and as a result we were left in a very doubtful legal position. I suggest that when we are dealing with the lives of people we want to be fairly certain of what we are doing. Prior to the overthrow of the Government in Chile, I was worried about the absence of a universal convention. Subsequent events there certainly have underlined the need for such a convention. 
Territorial asylum- that is where a country grants asylum to political refugees in its own territorywas the subject of a United Nations declaration which was adopted in 1967. The United Nations Commissioner for Refugees has submitted to the General Assembly a draft convention on territorial asylum. But diplomatic asylum, which is the type of asylum raised by the honourable senator, was stated for consideration by the United Nations International Law Commission in 1949 and has received little attention since then. After the coup in Chile I realised that this vacuum existed, and we had an embarrassing time over it. I asked the Department of Foreign 
Affairs to study this whole situation. I was able to announce in Adelaide on 15 June that we would be dealing with this matter and that as an initial effort we hoped to be able to make a start on preparing it for submission to the General Assembly this year. Obviously the time is ripe for such a convention. It is time for us to try to stir the United Nations Law Commission in New York. In addition to this step we have asked our diplomats around the world to raise this matter with the countries to which they are accredited to see what interest there is. The idea is initially to inscribe an item on the agenda of the United Nations General Assembly. Fortunately at this stage we are getting some encouraging reactions at least. As a preliminary step to the preparation of a convention we are proposing that the United Nations General Assembly adopt a declaration on diplomatic asylum which would be an important element in the next task of elaborating and codifying precise legal rules relating to the subject of diplomatic asylum. 
Let me say that I believe that the general acceptance of principles governing diplomatic asylum will be useful to all the parties concerned. It will help the state granting asylum since it will acknowledge its right within international law to grant protection to political refugees and to receive a guarantee of safe conduct out of the territories for the asylees. It will also be helpful to the territorial state since conditions will be laid down under which the right of asylum may be exercised. Finally, and probably most important of all, it will also help the asylee by codifying a humanitarian practice so as to protect him in urgent cases from a breakdown in the rule of law. 
-The Treaty on Migratory Birds was negotiated early this year by the Australian and Japanese Governments. The Treaty deals with a matter of environmental importance to both countries. It was signed on 6 February but is not yet in force. Consideration now is being given to its ratification. The honourable senator may be assured that the Government will ensure that the obligations under the Treaty are scrupulously complied with. I am not aware of whether actions attributable to the Government of New South Wales would place Australia in conflict with the provisions of the Treaty. My colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation currently is looking into this matter. 
I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  had not been informed of this matter. I had intended to break into the Senate's time for about one minute. I thought that this arrangement had been made. The reason why it is necessary for me to intervene at this stage is that a report is being presented in the other House at the moment and I was informed that it was desirable that the report be presented in this place and the other House as close to simultaneously as possible. Therefore,  Mr President,  pursuant to section 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973, 1 present the following paper: 
Remuneration Tribunal 1974 Review. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian High Commission in London has had approaches from about 60 Australian citizens about the collapse of Pacesetter Travel. Only one sought and received financial assistance. Most have booked with other British travel companies for alternative tours (at a twentyfive per cent reduction). Some Australian citizens were on tour when the company collapsed and those requiring assistance were helped by Australian offices. The institution by creditors of proceedings to recover funds is a private legal matter and the question of Australian Government involvement in legal proceedings does not arise. Officials at Australia House have advised all complainants to register their complaint with the Fraud Squad at New Scotland Yard who are compiling a list of creditors while continuing their enquiries. The High Commission is also in contact with other authorities who are keeping it informed of progress in investigations. These authorities suggest it will be sometime before the matter can be finalised. 
Committee on Technical and Further Education  (Question No. 36) 
-We have had confirmation that the Greek military government has resigned and that  Mr Constantine  Karamanlis is returning to Greece to head a civilian government. Apart from that I cannot help  Senator Georges  very much. The news which we are getting from the area is still fairly confused. But we do accept this information as authentic. If this really means a return to civilian government and proper elections in Greece, the Australian Government certainly welcomes this situation because it has been denied to the Greek people since 1967. 
-This matter is under active consideration by the United Nations Security Council at the moment. My general approach and the approach of the Government is to encourage the United Nations in its peace keeping endeavours. Having said that, it follows that we would give very sympathetic consideration to a request from  Mr Waldheim,  the SecretaryGeneral, to supply troops to Cyprus. As honourable senators will remember, we offered to do this in the case of the Middle East conflict, but because of the balance of forces we were not asked to supply troops. This was a matter for Kurt Waldheim. The same position obtains now. We want to encourage the United Nations to use its peace keeping endeavours because I think that is the very basis of the United Nations. We would give very sympathetic consideration to a request that we supply troops for the United Nations forces. As I understand it, the United Nations has virtually agreed to increase the number of troops in Cyprus but at the moment it has not worked out the details of that increase. 
-The honourable senator gave a certain amount of information in asking his question. I have something in my notes on this matter. This also is one of the matters under consideration by the Security Council at the moment. 
in replyAll those things which  Senator Wright  wants to do are not denied by what 1 have done. I have tabled the report- as is the general procedure here in relation to a report- and I assume that somebody would move that we would take note of it. 
-I will try not to join in the hysteria of my 2 friends opposite. They knew perfectly well that this report was being presented. 
-Those 2 gentlemen knew perfectly well that it was to be presented in the other place tonight. They would have been the first to complain if it had not been presented as close as possible to when it was presented in the other place. We have laid this down as a government document so that not only every honourable senator but also the Press and everybody else has it available. If  Senator Wright  or anybody else in this place wants to move to disallow and to throw out the report of the Tribunal which was unanimiously set up by statute here about 12 months ago, nothing I have done tonight in any way prevents them from doing that. 
It was not set up under a guillotine motion at all. But I will not get excited like my friend opposite. The situation is that the very act of laying this report on the table and putting a motion before this chamber means that the matter can come up for debate and be discussed. That is the very thing that I thought the Opposition would want. Of course that is what they want but because this is an emotional issue and because we are on the air our 2 friends, as we know so well, always limelight on occasions like this and they are not failing us tonight 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report on the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the year ending 30 June 1973. 
-It is still difficult to be dogmatic about what is happening on both the island of Cyprus and in Greece. But as I announced yesterday,  Mr Constantine  Karamanlis has returned from Paris to take over the Prime Ministership. He has announced his Foreign Minister. I hope that the name of the Foreign Minister is more pronounceable than the name of the present Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister of Greece. He has said that he will announce his Cabinet shortly. At the same time, on Cyprus,  Mr Glafkos  Clerides, who is a former  president  of the House of Representatives and one of the negotiators in the early intercommunal talks that took place between the Turks and the Greeks-a very highly respected man, our reports say- has said, I understand, that he would welcome the return of Archbishop Makarios. The interplay of these two would, I think, be to the good. I think everybody would welcome the change from a military government in Greece, since 1967, to what we hope will be a civilian one. From reports it seems that many prominent Greeks who have refused to live in their home country over some period of time have announced that they are returning. This sort of ground-swell would be welcomed by all 
Australians if it should return Greece to some form of civilian government and, we would hope, to elections in due course. 
-I think that the Nara treaty is the euphonious name given to the treaty referred to by the honourable senator. This treaty is, of course, of tremendous interest to both the Government of Japan and the Government of Australia. On 6 May the Japanese Government gave us a draft which was an answer to our draft which we put up on 14 December. In other words, we gave them a draft, they looked at it, and that began the negotiations which have been going on in Canberra for some time. We have had several interdepartmental committees to match the 2 drafts against one another. Australian officials start talks in Japan today on this matter which we assume will go on for about 3 days. Those talks are the next step in the negotiations. 
The question of migratory birds is a separate one inasmuch as it is a treaty in itself. 
From the way in which work on the draft is proceeding- although the Ministers of both countries have not yet seen the draft- it seems that a general umbrella-type arrangement will be put forward to cover not only such matters as migratory birds but also other matters such as trade, culture, exchange and foundations. But as I have mentioned, Australian officials are talking about these matters in Japan today. 
I wonder if it is not time - 
-No. I did not open the debate. It is nearly time that this charade came to an end. The Government would like a vote on this matter tonight. In spite of all the showmanship that has gone on the situation has been very clear for some time. There always has been criticism of anything involving parliamentary salaries. The Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  made a great point today of saying that he had warned us on the last occasion that these matters were discussed that we would not escape the wrath of the people and the wrath of the Press by setting up an independent Tribunal, yet he voted for that proposition. 

 Mr President, that sort of cynicism misses the point of what we were doing. I have believed over the years that the public and the Press had a somewhat genuine complaint when they said that it was wrong for parliamentarians to fix their own salaries. In order to overcome that complaint, and in accordance with the policy of the Australian Labor Party, last year we decided that these matters should be decided by an arbitral body, as is the case with most other salary examinations or salary increases in this community. From my days in arbitration courts I would say that it is perfectly clear-in fact it stands out like the nose on your face- that there are too many wage-fixing bodies in the community. That is because of our constitutional position with the State and Federal set-up, as well as the specialist agencies that have been established. There are too many people making all sorts of variations. When not just one body is handling these things there is a tendency throughout the world for an interlocking situation to arise. In fact  Mr Justice  Kerr, after making an examination here some years ago, visited the United States of America and England and then wrote to the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr McMahon,  pointing out that there was a tendency throughout the world for this interlocking situation to arise with people dealing with various types of salaries. Therefore we wrote certain things into the charter of the Remuneration Tribunal whose recommendations we are looking at tonight. 
Tonight we have before us a bag of salary determinations, some of which affects some parts of the Public Service throughout Australia.  Senator Withers  said this afternoon that he did not disagree with the amount of money fixed for parliamentarians but he disagreed with the timing of the payment.  Senator Townley  said something similar on the last occasion. He said that he agreed but that the timing was wrong. The answer is that the timing is always wrong. The timing is not wrong on this occasion. The Opposition is trying to do a cheap politicking stage job. If the Opposition agrees that the amount is right and if it agrees that probably for the first time we have had a work valuation job done by 3 competent people who have brought down a report, there must be some other reason the Opposition is disagreeing. The reason is that the time is not right because throughout the world today there is an inflationary situation which is peculiar to our times. It is affecting Australia, the same as it is affecting just about every other country. That argument is a fair enough argument. 
It is fair to say that if we are to embark on what is virtually wage fixation, there should be some sort of restraint in addition to the wage fixation. In Australia we should be trying to peg wages in the arbitral bodies. That argument is a fair enough argument. That is why, in the Labor Caucus, the vote was fairly evenly divided. People believed that that sort of argument, apart from the arbitral determination brought down by  Mr Justice  Campbell and his two associates, should be carried. But  Senator Withers  and the Opposition are not arguing that. What they are saying is purely political stage managing. They say: 'Although the argument is clear, we will not accept all the recommendations. We will pin parliamentary salaries for 6 months'.  Senator Withers  does not seek to reject the increases, as  Senator Wright  does. He seeks to pin the increases for 6 months. The Opposition says that the inflationary situation in the world will be cured in 6 months time and then it will accept this recommendation. 
-The Opposition knows perfectly well that it is an impossibility to forecast. It does not know that at all. This is the argument if one looks behind the facts about which the Opposition is talking. Obviously, if there is an argument that, in spite of the fact that the Tribunal has brought down recommendations not only on parliamentary salaries but on the salaries of judges, statutory officers and First Division officers in the Public Service and in spite of the fact that we agreed that the Tribunal has determined those wages in a proper arbitral way, this 
Parliament should feel that because of the inflationary situation in which we live the increases should be rejected, as  Senator Wright  said, at least we would be rejecting them, and that would be wage fixation in an important part of the Australian community. 
I cannot guarantee what the trade union movement will do. I cannot guarantee what the State Parliaments will do in respect of their judges and their public servants. It is argued that we should say that we will freeze the wages of this section of the community which we have in our control tonight. That is one argument.  Senator Withers  said that we should do this only in respect of parliamentarians. A freezing of the wages of 187 people will not have an effect on inflation. We cannot relate parliamentarians to anybody in the community in a comparative wage justice case. The Opposition says that this wage fixation will be a lead to the Australian community. That is political staging of the worst possible order. At least  Senator Wright  said: 'Let us reject the increases altogether'. Let it be perfectly clear that this report contains many recommendations affecting members of Parliament. They refer not only to the things about which we have been talking today, but things members of Parliament have been praying for and looking at over a period. I refer to such things as the transport of members and special people in the Opposition getting special considerations. 
I do not know whether the recommendations are right in every particular, but for a long time I have believed that if we are to have a better Parliament in Australia, we must have a better informed Parliament. I forget what the present Opposition did to us when it was in government. To have a better informed Parliament we must have parliamentarians who are dedicated to their job and who can move around this country and bring to bear in the national Parliament views on those things which are so terrifically important. Recommendations to enable this to be done are contained in this report. I know perfectly well, because I have been a senator for a number of years, what will happen. After this limelighting and this staging is over there will be pressures on the Government saying: 'The Campbell report referred to transport, some research officers, travel allowances and charter flights'. Let it be perfectly clear that it is not on. Tonight the Opposition accepts the whole report or it rejects the whole report. We will not be pressured. 
There was a very healthy debate in Cabinet and at the Caucus meeting. What is wrong with that? What is wrong with having disagreements? 
What is wrong with examining the whole situation? What is wrong with people coming to an independent decision on these things? I throw back in the teeth of  Senator Withers  the cheap jibes about the Press reports as to how many voted for this and how many voted for that. Let me be perfectly clear. The Opposition is saying that it will defer only the parliamentary salaries. That is a minute part of the report. What would be the cost to the community of those increases? There are 187 members of Parliament as against the large number of Australian public servants and the 40, I think it is, judges. Add up the figures and you will see just what politicking this is and what theatre work this is. 
If the Opposition genuinely believes that this is a lead in the fight against inflation- it says that we should stop at that stage- it should remember that tonight we have in our control not only parliamentary salaries but the salaries of all those other people whom we deliberately grouped together. I wrote the working paper on this matter 1 8 months ago. I suggested this idea. I rang  Mr Justice  Campbell in the first place. I believe that setting up this Tribunal was a sensible thing. The suggestion was agreed to unanimously by this Parliament. It was my initiative which put this thing forward and I believe it is right. I believe that it is not right to stand back and say: We will take the parliamentarians out'. Is that a lead in the anti-inflationary fight? Of course it is not. Honourable senators opposite know perfectly well that it is not. If they defer this matter tonight, the Opposition will go the whole hog because we will see that it does so. The Prime Minister will say to the States: 'As we have not increased the salaries of the judges of the Australian courts and as we have not increased the salaries of public servants employed by the Australian Government, we expect each Premier to do the same thing'. Whatever the arguments of the economists about the part wages play in the inflationary scheme of things- that debate has been going on for as long as I can remember- if we fight the battle on that level, the Prime Minister has a duty to say to the States: 'If it is good enough for one section of the Australian community, it will be good enough for the lot of you '. 
-My friend  Senator Webster  is, I think, having a little joke about blackmail at my expense. It is not blackmail. If this matter is as serious as honourable senators opposite are making it out to be- if they say that what they are doing tonight will be a challenge to the Australian people, a challenge to the Australian trade union movement and a challenge to the Australian white collar workers- the problem will not be solved by pegging the wages of 187 people and agreeing to increases for thousands of people. Let me repeat myself. I do not like repeating myself to the point of boredom. I know that I am doing so tonight. The amount of money it would cost to increase the salaries of parliamentarians when compared with the amount that it would cost to implement the rest of the proposals would be infinitesimal. How can  Senator Withers  stand up here and say that this is a genuine drive against inflation in Australia? Of course it is not. It is a mere political stunt- a picking out of politicians because  Senator Withers  knows that they are the most unloved people in the community. So it is the popular thing to say. But he says that they will vote for the increased salaries for other people covered in the report. I rarely agree with my old friend  Senator Wright-  I have been here with him now for 25 years- but on this stage he could not help but strut, even for that short time that these things last. Nevertheless, if one analyses what he has done one sees that he has said: ' Let us stop it all '. 
-At least he is honest to that extent. But it is another thing to come out and say: 'We will take the smallest unit of all because that is the popular thing; that is the thing that will get Press headlines'. People will say: Oh, yes, the self-sacrificing people standing out to defend it'. If one reads through the report one sees that  Mr Justice  Campbell, who after all has a little experience in these matters, has anticipated every utterance and every argument that people are trying to raise at this point. What he has said is that he has already examined this situation. He has said that the salaries of parliamentarians, judges and civil servants are following, they are not leading, and that is the way it ought to be. He has said: 'We have listened to the arguments', because he is just as aware of what the economic and fiscal situation is in Australia and in the world as any of us are. He adverts to that and says: 'In spite of that, I believe that this is the just thing to do '. So if one wants to deal with this matter on an arbitral level, all those arguments have been anticipated by  Mr Justice  Campbell. Every one of them has been adverted to in the report. I notice that those sections of the report have not been quoted by the Opposition. 
As I said at the outset, let us end this charade, because that is what it is. We have been on this thing all day. Firstly, there were the stalling tactics of saying whether the thing should have been brought on or whether it should not have been brought on. Sensible people adopting a genuine attitude could have fixed up that matter in two to five minutes, but it took hours. Finally, although  Senator Wright  would have had the right to walk out, take his bat and go home, he did not do so; he continued with the debate. As I say, we have been on this thing all day. There is no need to go any further with it. We make it quite clear that we will not stand for this staging or these theatricals. If honourable senators opposite want to delay, defer or do anything with this report, they can do so. For the first time in the history of Australia a report has come down with an arbitral decision. 
Whatever the fate of this report and however much one disagrees with it, the proposal to set up this Tribunal was unanimously agreed to. The platform of the Australian Labor Party was right. It said that while parliamentarians are fixing their own salaries, with the suspicion that they are in collusion with judges and with the public servants with whom we have to work so closely, it does not give a genuine feeling to the Australian people. But whatever the people's criticisms of an arbitral body are, when you hand this question of determining parliamentary salaries to an outside body, as so many of the State parliaments have done, at least that gets around the question of parliamentarians fixing their own salaries. What I say to you,  Mr President,  and to all honourable senators is that we should come to a vote quickly. 
Yes, I suppose winning means a lot to  Senator Sim. 
Winning a cheap political point means a lot to honourable senators opposite. When they have the numbers, when they have the jackboots, of course it is pretty easy. But the fact is that everybody in Australia is worried about the economic situation in which we find ourselves, and I understand everybody's attitude to that matter. I understand people who would want to handle the situation one way, and I understand people who would want to handle the situation another way, because no economist in the world has come up with an answer to inflation. The whole of the world is floundering on the question of inflation. I never think that my ideas are so much better than anyone else's ideas. But as regards this situation, the Labor Party made up its mind, it is true, on a vote which was not carried by a great majority; the majority was fairly substantial, but on many occasions we have been much closer to unanimity than we were on this occasion. But that is perfectly natural. We have made a decision. This is what we want to do. The Opposition is not standing up to an honest decision on this matter. As I say, it is trying this staging, picking out something that will make not one iota of difference to the situation on which honourable senators opposite base their arguments tonight. If they are honest in their endeavours, if they do not want just to play this staging and this politicking to the nth degree, I suggest that we should proceed to a vote as quickly as is humanly possible. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (8.46)- I rise to my feet with some diffidence because I had hoped that I would be able to go through this period of the session of the Senate without having to speak publicly or in the Senate on matters of partisanship or where political bias may be exerted. But I am impelled to speak tonight because what we are involved in and what we are discussing is not a problem of partisanship at all. It bears down directly on the functions, responsibilities and attitudes that this Parliament holds. For example, I have heard that that old fashioned description of Parliament as 'that high court of the realm' is no longer valid. But in fact the people regard the Parliament as the high court of the realm and they know instinctively that in the final analysis all power and all authority within the Constitution is derived from the Parliament. 
I think  Senator Willesee's  reference to  Senator Withers  attempting to take a cheap political trick is totally erroneous, because all that  Senator Withers  in his forecast of a motion said this afternoon was that if there is a problem that besets the whole of the people, the Parliament must be the place where the action is taken and the demonstration of good faith has its birth. That is what  Senator Withers  in essence said. Therefore, he postulated the theorem that if there is to be a sacrifice and a demonstration of the sacrifice that is required in this nation on behalf of the people whom we represent here, the beginnings of that sacrifice and the demonstration of it should take place in the Parliament. 
In December 1972 a new government came into being and  Senator Willesee  was Special Minister of State in that Government.  Senator Willesee,  I think properly, said: 'We will deal with this situation straight away'. He brought forward a proposition, the effect of which was to alter the rates of emoluments of members of Parliament and parliamentary officers. It was done quickly. No wide survey was carried out. Subsequently it was inevitably discovered- these things happen and I am not blaming  Senator Willesee  for this- that there were certain anomalies. For example, the situation was created wherein the Principal Parliamentary Reporter of this Parliament, the editor-in-chief of Hansard, was discovered to be in receipt of $1,600 or so less than his own  deputy.  Another departmental head, the head of the Parliamentary Library here in Canberra, one of the great libraries of Australia, was found to be in receipt of emoluments which were less than the emoluments of a librarian in a school of advanced technology in Sale in Gippsland which had no students and no books. Therefore, as  Senator Willesee  said, it was necessary to give a formal expression to and have a formal examination of the whole of the area, and that examination was carried out by the Campbell Tribunal. 1 do not quarrel with that. I think that Tribunal brought down a perfectly adequate report. It is a report in which the Tribunal acknowledged and recognised those emoluments, salaries and privileges, and all the other ancillary matters on a fair and reasonable basis.  Senator Willesee,  with his great experience in arbitral matters and in appearing before the arbitral authorities, has made perfectly clear that it is a very good report, and I agree with that assessment. It does not underrate members of Parliament, lt says that members of Parliament are worth so much a year in the context of the community in general. I agree with that. But all  Senator Withers  said was that the economic circumstances have changed since  Mr Justice  Campbell wrote his report. We have just gone through another election- I do not say this in any spirit of partisanship- during which it was denied that there existed in Australia a dangerous economic situation. The weather set fair for Spain, as it were; we could go ahead. But since then the economic situation and the economic future of Australia, to say the least of it, fogged and clouded. The Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia  (Mr Crean),  for example, said that we are in a dangerous economic situation. Although I very rarely switch on the idiot box, I did so last night only to see the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  appearing on national television saying that it is dangerous at this juncture for Parliament to be seen to be adding to its own emoluments when sacrifice for this country, in economic terms, is required. He cited certain figures. I know that  Senator Poyser  interrupted a moment or two ago and said that the figures were not right, but I am relying on the figures mentioned last night by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He said the figures were 5 1 to 40 or 4 1 to 50, or whatever it was. 
Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  suggested that Parliament should take the first step. 
I have heard all of these arguments before, that there is never a right time to raise parliamentary salaries; this is never on; we shrink from doing this, and so forth. I have been hearing these things for more than 20 years. The facts of the situation are that, in terms of grave crisis, Parliament must act in the interests of the people, not act in its own interests. That is what we are here for. We are not here to act in our own interests, however necessary they may be, however difficult it may be to make ends meet. I have the responsibility of dependants. I spent last weekend, for example, going through my personal budget. I have no resource other than that which I am paid as a senator. I found that, with dependants, I could get through the period which I fear lies ahead ofthe Australian people. I am sure that a great number of other honourable senators have gone through the same exercise. It is not  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition here, or any other honourable senator on this side of the chamber who has been arguing for restraint. The Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Whitlam)  has been arguing for restraint. He has said so publicly. The  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia has been arguing for restraint and has said so publicly. The Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia has been arguing for restraint and has said so. There is only one area in which the people will finally either repose their trust or hurl their hatred. They will either hurl their hatred at the Parliament or they will repose their trust in the Parliament. 
We are elected to this place not to manage the economy. The management of the economy is carried out by a Government, by a cabinet, by a ministry. We do not govern the economy sitting here in our places. We provide the support system by which governments come into being, but we are not responsible for the management of the economy. Irrespective of the quality of Government, whether it is an Australian Labor Party Government or one that is drawn from the Liberal and Country parties, the facts are that Government derives its strength and authority from Parliament. When we are advised, as we have been advised by the leading men in the Government, that Parliament should act with restraint in the context of its own emoluments, then it is the duty of members of Parliament to act in the interests of the people and not in their own interests. 
Therefore, without going into all the ins and outs of whether the  Chairman  of Committees should get this and whether a car should be provided for that, in the final analysis if the people who compose the nation are in jeopardy and I believe they are in jeopardy- I wish to assure honourable senators that from my experience hundreds of people, including farmers, shopkeepers, road workers, railway workers, and so on have this- they will become frightened of inflation and they have every reason to be frightened of inflation. Therefore, we have to break this psychological nexus which is driving the Australian people to try to chase money in order to keep ahead. It can be broken only by those people who are set in authority and the people who are set in authority are we who sit in the Senate. We have to break the nexus and the only way we can do so is to demonstrate that we ourselves are prepared to accept a sacrifice in the first instance. 
-The situation regarding work permits is that there is no right of appeal by Australian citizens against a decision to refuse work permits. When considering the question whether an extension should be granted the British Home Office is guided by the recommendations of the British Department of Employment. If an extension is denied an appeal can be made only by the employer, not by the Australian High Commissioner or the individual worker. There are no real formal arrangements -of course, there are many informal onesbetween our office and the British Home Office. There may be some confusion between the position of an Australian citizen wishing simply to remain in Britain and that of a person wishing to continue working there. In those circumstances an Australian has a right of appeal to an independent adjudicator and thereafter to an appeals committee. In these cases there may be consultation between our High Commission and the British Home Office. 
-I have some knowledge of this matter. The dispatch came by telegram. As to the individual questions, I will take them on board and give the honourable senator an answer. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is no. The answer to the last part of the question is no. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 

 Mr Miko lodged an application for migrant entry to Australia at the Australian Embassy, Saigon, on 24 April 1974. 
Approval was granted in accordance with the delegations normally exercised. 
-The tripartite talks are continuing in Geneva but there is a wide divergence between Greece and Turkey on the central question of the demilitarisation of Cyprus itself. There is a strong view, with which the Australian Government of course agrees, that in accordance with the Security Council resolution the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus be maintained and that the situation revert certainly to what it was before hostilities commenced, if not to a better position. There have been reports in the Press that renewed fighting has taken place following the disagreement between Greece and Turkey. On the question of Australians in Cyprus I take this opportunity publicly to thank the British Government and its Services for what they have done for Australians there. I am sure everybody will agree that I ought to convey our thanks in a formal letter to the British Foreign Minister because Britain has done a magnificent job for us. It has evacuated about 300 Australians. For our own part we are obtaining a list of those people from London and checking it with the list of names we have in Australia of people we knew to be in Cyprus. We can then assure people that certain of the people whose names are on that list are already safe. 
We know that there are still some children in Cyprus. Last week, we had one of our officers visit Cyprus. We were quite worried about him because it was really a dangerous time to be there. At some risk to himself, he tried unsuccessfully to contact the authorities there. We have asked our police in Cyprus, working under the United Nations high command, to contact what Australians are still there. They have already contacted 2 children who come from a family in Canberra. They are continuing to try to find the others and get them down to the British base so that they can be airlifted out. Probably later this week we will send another officer over from Athens. This time we will have the list checked to see what names are still outstanding and the officer will do the best he can to follow up those people in Cyprus. 
-I think I should get a full reply to this question for the honourable senator. As the Senate knows, over a long period of time we have been allowing Papua New Guinea to do everything that it can do itself. In his speech at the opening of Parliament, the Governor-General pointed out that we were now treating Papua New Guinea, to the fullest extent possible, as an independent country. In Sydney on Saturday I had talks with the Prime Minister, 

 Mr Morrison, Mr Moari Kiki and  Mr Somare  on various subjects with the aim of moving towards this position. When Papua New Guinea declares its independence it will be more or less a formal declaration. The question asked by the honourable senator is one which the Defence Department has been looking at because there has been a phasing out of servicemen, to which the honourable senator specifically referred. But the whole question of expatriates returning to Australia has to be examined. We have considered this matter particularly as it affects the future internal situation.I will examine the question and see if I can give the honourable senator more details. 
-I do not know whether a question framed like that deserves an answer. However, ignoring the tone of the question, the Press has correctly reported that the Department of Foreign Affairs has for some time been examining whether it should do what countries like Great Britain- one country to which the honourable senator did not refer- do about dress and provide for our Foreign Affairs officers a distinctive uniform for what are virtually ceremonial occasions. Our officers will not be wearing this uniform around the office, or at cocktail parties. The purpose of the uniform is to get away from the suit, the white tie and tails and dress of that type which has been worn for a long time. The honourable senator asked me whether I was ordering that this uniform be worn. The answer is no, I am not. I consider that it is not the job of a Minister to look at these internal matters of a department. My job is to lay down policy and to see that it is carried out. As far as I am concerned, if the main body of people in the Department of Foreign Affairs want the uniform, so be it. I do not particularly like seeing them strutting around in white tie and tails. I have not seen the uniform. It is largely up to the people in the Department to decide what they really want. 
-I am glad that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and other honourable senators at long last have a profundity in their interest in foreign affairs. I am glad that they have put their minds to this very complex question. Foreign affairs is a very important subject. As to the question the honourable senator has asked, he has been here long enough to know that I will not answer one as silly as that. 
-No, I have not received any such requests, I understand, mainly from Press reports, that that suggestion has been put to the Government, but it has not come to me. I certainly will have something to say about it, because it is a matter of interest to the Department of Foreign Affairs. When there is something worth reporting I shall let the honourable senator know. 
For the information of honourable senators, I lay on the table of the Senate the text of the treaties which have entered into force and to which Australia has become a party by signature. A statement of the details of" the treaties tabled has been distributed to honourable senators. 
-On 24 July 1974  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack asked me the following question, without notice: 
I wish to ask a supplementary question merely to elucidate something which has puzzled me for some time. Who pays for the troops which foreign nations make available to the United Nations? I think my most recent information is that the Irish, the Finns, and the Swedes bleed the United Nations funds by having all of their troops paid by the United Nations, whereas the Australian troops are highly paid people and therefore the United Nations does not like to have them. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The method of financing United Nations forces has varied, although voluntary contributions by member States have been the most common form of payment to date. The inclusion  or  the costs of United Nations peace-keeping forces in the regular United Nations budget has not been acceptable to a number of countries. 
The United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) is financed by voluntary contributions. Contributions amounting to US$143.3m have been received from 52 member States and 3 other non-member States between 1964 and 1974. The costs borne by the United Nations for the operation of UNFICYP include the direct cost to the UN of maintaining the Force in Cyprus, and amounts paid to various Governments providing contingents in respect of extra and extraordinary costs for which they seek reimbursement from the United Nations. 
Governments contributing troops to UN forces are entitled in principle to claim reimbursement for 'extra and extraordinary costs', other than the salaries of their regular military personnel but interpretation of these costs varies between UN members. 
Countries such as Sweden and Finland, which agreed some years ago to establish volunteer military units, separate and distinct from their regular armed services, to be assembled and placed at the disposal of the UN in the event of a peace-keeping emergency claim full reimbursement for the costs of such units. It has been understood and accepted by the UN that these special volunteer forces, earmarked for use under the UN Charter, should be paid in full by the UN. 
Ireland is not a current contributor of troops to UNFICYP, as her contingent was transferred to the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East, and subsequently withdrawn to Ireland. 
No objections have been raised in the United Nations to a possible Australian troop contribution on the grounds that Australian troops are highly paid. 
-Yes. The former Government of Greece included everybody of Greek nationality, even though they might hold dual nationality, when it issued its mobilisation orders. Many people were included, particularly Australians. Because of our attitude on dual nationality we were on the point of taking this matter up with the Greek Government in respect of Australian citizens of Greek origin but the Government in Greece changed and I understand that the exit points which were closed are now open and there is no difficulty in Greek/Australians leaving Greece. 
-What I did in the speech delivered in Adelaide on 15 June was to raise the question of the Third World in the context of Australia gathering more information for itself. I pointed out that up to that time the Labor Government had entered into diplomatic relations with an extra 2 1 countries, that we had observers at meetings of the Andean Pact and the Organisations of American States and that we were paying attention to what was going on in relation to the Organisation of African Unity. I said that I would seek to have Australia admitted as an observer at the Third World meetings, or the nonaligned meetings as they are known. We could not become a member of the Third World if we wanted to because, as  Senator Sim  pointed out, we are an aligned country through the ANZUS Treaty and also through SEATO. So there is no doubt that we would not be acceptable to that body. But I believe that we just cannot ignore these various groupings throughout the world. The whole burden of that section of my speech was to the effect that Australia should be better informed than it has been and that we should get the information, as far as we possibly can, through Australian eyes. 
For the information of honourable senators, I lay on the table the text of the agreement between Australia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report on the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1 973. 
-That is precisely what I just said. I will check and see what information I have. A report could easily have come in, and I could have missed it. 
-I will find out the details for  Senator Gietzelt  as a matter of urgency. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of opinion- 
That, in any debate or proceeding of the Senate or its committees or transactions or communications which a senator may have with other members or with Ministers or servants of the crown, he should disclose any relevant pecuniary interest or benefits of whatever nature, whether direct or indirect, that he may have had, may have or may be expecting to have; 
b) That every senator should furnish to the  Clerk  of the Senate such particulars of his pecuniary interests, supported by statutory declaration, as shall be required, and shall notify to the  Clerk  any alterations which may occur therein, and the  Clerk  shall cause these particulars to be entered in a register of senators' interests which shall be available for inspection by the public; and 
That a joint committee should be appointed to inquire into and report on what arrangements need to be made to give effect to the above principles. 
-The article repeated a canard that was circulating at about election time. The figures taken were for a calendar year instead of a financial year. In the field of aid, this is a fairly simple thing to do. Often governments get requests for aid which they cannot supply for a certain time, so there may be some weeks in which very little aid would be given. The only way to calculate the amount of aid properly, if one is to be fair about it, is to look at the financial year for which the estimates are made. The article this morning took a calendar year, compared it with another calendar year and arrived at the conclusion that for the period the amount of aid was down. I do not know whether, had the analysis been taken down to a fortnightly or a monthly basis, a worse comparison could have been achieved. There are always ups and downs in the field of aid. On a fiscal year basis Australia's aid performance rose from $2 17m in 1972- 73 to $263 in 1973-74, an increase of $46m or 2 1 per cent. The extra funds spent will appear in the 1974 calendar year statistics. Australian development assistance, expressed as a percentage of the gross national product, increased slightly from 0.53 per cent in 1972-73 to 0.54 per cent in 1973-74. Let me emphasise again that the figures are based on the provisional results for 1973- 74. 
I have read something of this matter in the newspapers. I do not have a detailed knowledge of the allegations that are being made. We received frequent reports about political prisoners in various parts of the world including allegations of atrocities against people who are not living in their home countries where there are problems, such as is the case in the Middle East. 
I was speaking in a general context about political prisoners and this type of thing. The sort of thing that a government can do in these circumstances is to make known very clearly to the other governments its abhorrence of the violation of civil liberties. It is always a very delicate problem to know whether, if you press these people, they will not act worse than they are already acting. It is always a matter of opinion about what ought to be done. I do not want to mention particular cases, but when the Prime Minister and I have been in such countries and have been able to talk privately to our opposite numbers, we have raised specifically the things which are offending people in Australia. We have insisted to these people that we are not trying to interfere in what they decide is their internal business, but we say that it makes it difficult for a country such as Australia, which has had a very high tradition of civil liberties over a couple of hundred years, to continue in a friendly way and to assist those people while these things carry on. I will certainly see what evidence the Department has in relation to the specific case raised by the honourable senator. 
-No. The Americans are not using Cocos Island as a military base. There are no military facilities or military personnel of any country on Cocos Island. Cocos Island is used by aircraft from some countries- Britain, New Zealand, Australia and United States of America. Australia abstained from voting on the resolution referred to. This occurred in the days of the McMahon Government. The instructions given to the delegate were to abstain from voting on the question of the Indian Ocean zone of peace. However, the honourable senator is basically right in the latter part of his question because the following year, after a Labor Government had been elected, Australia did support a resolution the basis of which was the resolution to which the honourable senator referred in his question. An answer is being prepared to a question asked in another place, and I will see that the honourable senator receives a copy of that answer because it will contain more details on the question he has asked. 
-The broad approach of the Government to this matter, as  Senator Marriott  would know, is contained in the words which the Government used when it first took office. We said that we would give generous aid to the post-war reconstruction of the whole of Indo-China without regard to governments or their ideologies. The amount of aid given to North Vietnam to 30 June last was $660,000, and to South Vietnam $3.5m. The problem with North Vietnam has been in getting it to submit its requests and also in being able to supply what is requested. We sent a special mission there and North Vietnam asked for a lot of goods that we are having great difficulty in supplying. This bears a little on an answer I gave previously this morning. Money is earmarked for this purpose, but we cannot spend it. I am not satisfied with the way this matter is going and I have asked a  Deputy  Secretary of my Department, Dick Woolcott, who is going to North Vietnam on other matters as part of a normal liaison visit, to take this matter up with the North Vietnamese to see whether we can get a better flow of goods to them. 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, with your permission I shall return to the provisions of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. We have been accused today of being corrupt because we are introducing this Bill. We have been accused of corruption because we have tried to do something about the Aboriginal problem, although what that has to do with the Bill I do not know. We have just heard the previous  speaker, Mr Peacock,  telling us that we believe in the abolition of the Senate and that we propose to have a unicameral system of government but in the meantime we are doing something which contradicts that policy. The honourable member visited New York and some other places as well. Do not ask me to follow him in his remarks because he went so far from the factual situation in many respects that I would have to wander a long way from the terms of this Bill to follow him. 
He talked about the abolition of the Senate. It is quite well known and there is no denial from anybody in my Party that we want to see a unicameral system of government in Australia. That would be the most common sense system to have. Seeing this sitting today, I think, only underlines that. As the honourable member well knows- he quoted  Senator James  McClelland on this subject- the situation is such that a straight out abolition of the Senate is almost impossible, because there is a heavy body of legal opinion which says that a Constitution alteration referendum proposing such a question would have to be carried not only by the majority of people in the majority of States but that it would have to be carried in every State. With the great outlook of the Opposition today, these great progressives that we have heard so much about and who have all these grand ideas for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, one can just imagine them supporting something designed to alter even the crossing of a 't' or the taking away of the dot from an T in the Constitution. 
What is this Bill about? All it does is to introduce 2 new elements into Australia's present electoral procedures; that is to give 2 senators each to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and secondly, to give them a special term of office so that their election would coincide with the election for the House of Representatives and their period in office would coincide with that of the House of Representatives. Let us take the second point first. What in the world is wrong with that? The present ridiculous situation is that a House of Representatives election is held one year and an election for half of the Senate is held in the next year. That is bad for government and for the people who are conducting the elections. The situation came about because of a political stunt by the Liberal and Country Parties many years ago, and so far we have not been able to get around it. Because we believe that all senators should be elected at the same time as House of Representatives elections are held, we have written this present provision into the Bill which we hope after today will become the law of Australia. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2), which was passed earlier in the day, gave equality of voting to people irrespective of their geographical location. This Bill seeks to give equality of representation irrespective of geographical location. The Government says in this Bill in a very simple way that all Australians irrespective of where they live in Australia should have equal representation. This Parliament is bicameral. The previous  speaker, Mr Peacock,  made quite a play on the words of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that while the national Parliament remains bicameral the people of the Territories should be represented in both chambers. 
When one thinks about the simplicity of these provisions and the very minor approach it makes to provide equality of representation in Australia, one may ask: What possible arguments can the Opposition possibly raise against them? I think the answer has been given here today by members of the Opposition. Very few of them at any stage have got anywhere near the provisions of the Bill. The arguments they have tried to dredge up are indeed few. I do not know how members of the Opposition can argue that because people live in the 2 territories in Australiathe Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory- they should be denied the same representation as anybody else in Australia or that m some way they are unworthy of being represented in the Senate although they are represented in the House of Representatives. Although we heard today of how the former Liberal-Country Party Government gave these people representation, I point out that that former Government gave it very slowly over a long period of time and only after tremendous prodding from the Opposition which in those days was formed by the Australian Labor Party. Somehow it is suggested that because people live in these territories they are unworthy of being represented in the Senate and that elected representatives from the territories should not sit in the Senate. 
We have had plenty of material to read on this matter because the Bills have each been presented 6 times before the 2 Houses of Parliament. One of the arguments of the Opposition that I have noticed from a reading of such material is that the Senate is a States House at the moment and has been so since federation. Because it has been made up of State senators, it is argued that people who live in the territories should not be allowed representation in the Senate, although this has been clearly envisaged in the Constitution. I notice that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I thought very offensively, stated: 
I do not believe that it is possible for the Senate effectively to represent the States if it is to be given what I would see as tainted representation for the Australian Capital Territory. 
I would ask members opposite: When are you ever going to allow representation in the Senate for these people if you say that now is not the time? Will such representation be granted when the territories double or quadruple their populations? Certainly, that is what will happen in the Australian Capital Territory. At that stage, will the people of the Australian Capital Territory still be denied Senate representation? Would such representation in some way break down the position of other honourable senators from the States merely because the territories are called territories and not States? 
I also notice that some very selective references were made to the Adelaide Convention of 1897. They are completely irrelevant and misleading. Of course, I point out that the 1897 Convention was one of the conventions that led up to federation. Of course, all sorts of debates took place on this type of thing. But at that stage there were no territories because the Northern Territory was not in existence and, of course, the Australian Capital Territory was not even contemplated at that stage. But even though there were no territories at that stage, there was acknowledged in the Constitution the possibility that one day this Parliament would have to legislate for exactly that situation. It could hardly be envisaged in those days that 250,000 people would live in the territories, as they do today. As I say, even in those days section 122 was written into the Constitution. It clearly gives us the right to do exactly what this Bill is seeking to do today. The situation at federation was that the founding fathers did not debar anybody from being represented in the Senate. Everybody living in some part of Australia had the right to be represented in the Senate. I state for the benefit of those people who like to quote the Convention of 1897 and the Australian Constitution which was drawn up at the turn of the century that that is not the situation today. What this Bill attempts to do is to bring the situation originally envisaged into being so that we will again have significant parts of Australia being represented in the Senate. 
The other argument that I have located is that the election of Territory senators would be anomalous and that they would vote according to sectional and regional interests. This argument is advanced by the same people who are always chiding the Senate and saying that the Senate does not represent the States- in other words that the senators speak for sectional interests. Now we are told that if the territorian senators are going to do it, then somehow they will be completely wrong. We are told that they would not vote with a national outlook. What sort of an argument is that? Of course, the fact is that senators vote in the Senate as they do in the House of Representatives, that is, on Party lines. That is where the rub starts to come. 
Another argument I have seen advanced- I do not think that it was put forward in the Senate, thank heavens- was that these 4 Territorian senators would in some way combine or somehow the aspirations of the Northern Territorians and Australian Capital Territorians would be so similar to one another that they would form a little party of their own and would be able to hold sway in the event of a deadlock. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 -Mr Chairman, I said before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that this was a simple Bill and was introducing only 2 new elements into the electoral system. One was to elect to the Senate 2 senators from the 2 Territories of Australia, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. We have already passed one Bill which gave some sort of equality of voting, and this Bill is endeavouring to give some equality to representation in Australia. The argument that the Opposition has put forward is that the Senate is a States House. Of course, that is a myth, but it is the argument that the Opposition puts forward. If it wants to stick to that argument, what it is saying is that the people in the Australian Capital Territory will not at any stage in history be represented in the second chamber in the Australian Parliament. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. If it says that the Senate is a States House and therefore the Territories cannot be represented in it, it is saying that the Australian Capital Territory will never be represented in the Senate. I understand that at least the Australian Country Party- I am not sure of the Liberalssays that the Northern Territory one day will become a State and its people will be able to be represented in the Senate. When? If it has Senate representation, how many representatives will it have? If it becomes a State it must have 10 senators and the situation will be much worse than we are accused of trying to make it at the moment. 
The other argument, of course, is that senators representing the Territories would be sectionalists and would be arguing for the rights of the Territories. Yet, as I said earlier, the Opposition maintains that the Senate ought to be a States House. Therefore, senators ought to be arguing for their States. Of course, the only time that senators argue for their States is when they meet in the Party rooms, because the Senate is run just the same as the House of Representatives is. It is run on Party lines. 
All that the Opposition has put up is just so much poppycock. The real reason it wants this Bill defeated is that it enjoys, by a particular turn of events, a situation where in spite of the fact that the Australian Labor Party has won 2 elections the Opposition in another place, because of its numbers, is able to frustrate the Government's legislative program. The real reason the Opposition opposes this measure is that it wants no alteration to the numbers in the Senate. If a quarter of a million people in Australia are to suffer, that is too bad. They are only people. The Opposition will not give up the grip that it has on the Senate at the moment. 
Let me come to what I term the last diversion. All the arguments that the Opposition has put forward are diversions. Honourable members opposite are not analysing the situation and their arguments are no real reason for opposition to the Bill. The last diversion is the question of the 
Territories other than the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Opposition has approached this question in different ways.  Senator Greenwood  today asked this question. 'If provision is made for 2 senators to represent each of the Territories what is to stop a provision being made for 10 or 50 senators ?' What sort of argument is that? It is a Greenwood argument. If there is proportional representation and there is a representation of 50, or even 70-1 suppose we do not stop at 50 under  Senator Greenwood's  formula- what is the difference if, out of the 50, 25 sit on either side?  Senator Greenwood  's argument holds up only if the Senate is indeed a States House. It would hold up if it was said: 'All right, if we provide for 100 or 200 senators from the Territories we will thwart the States House'. Then the argument would have some validity, but it has no validity at the moment because the Senate does not operate as a States House and nobody in his right senses would ever claim that it does. 
The Opposition asks: 'What about the other Territories?' However it does not specify them. What are the other Territories? They are Christmas Island, Carrier and Ashmore Islands, and Heard Island, where nobody lives. The Opposition approached this aspect in 2 ways. It said that if there is one person living on any of these islands he will become the local senator. On the other hand it says that when the number of people on these islands starts to build up they will want to be represented too. My answer to that is that if there are a significant number of people in these Territories they should be represented. What we are saying is that no Australians should be debarred. 
The Opposition says that the Government is thwarting the Constitution. I repeat that we are putting the electoral situation back to where it was when the Constitution was first written. At that time it did not exclude any Australians from being represented in both Houses of Parliament. We are trying to return to that situation. If those islands which I mentioned ever get to a situation where they have a significant number of people, then of course they ought to be represented. What is the final brake on this rot which honourable members and honourable senators opposite talk? 
-The honourable member is going on with the States House business again. What absolute rot.  Mr Chairman,  even if we reach the situation where we say that we will allow these 2 Territories to be represented and that we will worry later about representation of other territories, when we get down to Christmas Island or Ashmore Island this Parliament will have to have a similar Bill before it. It cannot be done automatically. That Bill will have to go through the normal democratic processes of Government, the media, and public opinion, which finally determines our actions in this place. The Opposition talks about the Northern Territory without stating what representation it will give in the Senate if the Territory becomes a State, as the Opposition says it will. It does not say when this will happen and it does not say how many representatives it will have in the Senate. But, of course, the real reason for this opposition does not lie in any of these diversions which the Opposition puts forward. The real reason is that it wants to maintain the situation which we have now in the Senate. That is why the Opposition says it is prepared to give Senate representation to the Northern Territory in due course but not to the Australian Capital Territory. It is looking at the immediate situation and where it thinks the electoral advantage lies, either in maintaining the situation as it is today or, alternatively, in allowing representation for the Northern Territory where proportional representation will look after the political situation. But not so with the Australian Capital Territory. 
The real reason is that Opposition members believe that they were born to rule and that nobody else in the community is capable of doing so or even should be allowed to do so. They do not care if we go to the public a dozen times and if we win a dozen elections; these people of the Opposition think they were born to rule. They will not accept the decision of the people. They will not accept that they are in opposition. They intend to maintain their present position by hook or by crook. As I say, it does not worry the Opposition whether it is a quarter of a million people or half the Australian population who suffer. They are only people. The Opposition wants to stay where it is so that it can carry out the dictates of its masters who control it from outside this House. 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, with your permission I shall return to the provisions of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. We have been accused today of being corrupt because we are introducing this Bill. We have been accused of corruption because we have tried to do something about the Aboriginal problem, although what that has to do with the Bill I do not know. We have just heard the previous  speaker, Mr Peacock,  telling us that we believe in the abolition of the Senate and that we propose to have a unicameral system of government but in the meantime we are doing something which contradicts that policy. The honourable member visited New York and some other places as well. Do not ask me to follow him in his remarks because he went so far from the factual situation in many respects that I would have to wander a long way from the terms of this Bill to follow him. 
He talked about the abolition of the Senate. It is quite well known and there is no denial from anybody in my Party that we want to see a unicameral system of government in Australia. That would be the most common sense system to have. Seeing this sitting today, I think, only underlines that. As the honourable member well knows- he quoted  Senator James  McClelland on this subject- the situation is such that a straight out abolition of the Senate is almost impossible, because there is a heavy body of legal opinion which says that a Constitution alteration referendum proposing such a question would have to be carried not only by the majority of people in the majority of States but that it would have to be carried in every State. With the great outlook of the Opposition today, these great progressives that we have heard so much about and who have all these grand ideas for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, one can just imagine them supporting something designed to alter even the crossing of a 't' or the taking away of the dot from an 'i' in the Constitution. 
What is this Bill about? All it does is to introduce 2 new elements into Australia's present electoral procedures; that is to give 2 senators each to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and secondly, to give them a special term of office so that their election would coincide with the election for the House of Representatives and their period in office would concide with that of the House of Representatives. Let us take the second point first. What in the world is wrong with that? The present ridiculous situation is that a House of Representatives election is held one year and an election for half of the Senate is held in the next year. That is bad for government and for the people who are conducting the elections. The situation came about because of a political stunt by the Liberal and Country Parties many years ago, and so far we have not been able to get around it. Because we believe that all senators should be elected at the same time as House of Representatives elections are held, we have written this present provision into the Bill which we hope after today will become the law of Australia. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2), which was passed earlier in the day, gave equality of voting to people irrespective of their geographical location. This Bill seeks to give equality of representation irrespective of geographical location. The Government says in this Bill in a very simple way that all Australians irrespective of where they live in Australia should have equal representation. This Parliament is bicameral. The previous  speaker, Mr Peacock,  made quite a play on the words of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that while the national Parliament remains bicameral the people of the Territories should be represented in both chambers. 
When one thinks about the simplicity of these provisions and the very minor approach it makes to provide equality of representation in Australia, one may ask: What possible arguments can the Opposition possibly raise against them? I think the answer has been given here today by members of the Opposition. Very few of them at any stage have got anywhere near the provisions of the Bill. The arguments they have tried to dredge up are indeed few. I do not know how members of the Opposition can argue that because people live in the 2 territories in Australiathe Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory- they should be denied the same representation as anybody else in Australia or that in some way they are unworthy of being represented in the Senate although they are represented in the House of Representatives. Although we heard today of how the former Liberal-Country Party Government gave these people representation, I point out that that former Government gave it very slowly over a long period of time and only after tremendous prodding from the Opposition which in those days was formed by the Australian Labor Party. Somehow it is suggested that because people live in these territories they are unworthy of being represented in the Senate and that elected representatives from the territories should not sit in the Senate. 
We have had plenty of material to read on this matter because the Bills have each been presented 6 times before the 2 Houses of Parliament. One of the arguments of the Opposition that I have noticed from a reading of such material is that the Senate is a States House at the moment and has been so since federation. Because it has been made up of State senators, it is argued that people who live in the territories should not be allowed representation in the Senate, although this has been clearly envisaged in the Constitution. I notice that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I thought very offensively, stated:  1 do not believe that it is possible for the Senate effectively to represent the States if it is to be given what I would see as tainted representation for the Australian Capital Territory. 
I would ask members opposite: When are you ever going to allow representation in the Senate for these people if you say that now is not the time? Will such representation be granted when the territories double or quadruple their populations? Certainly, that is what will happen in the Australian Capital Territory. At that stage, will the people of the Australian Capital Territory still be denied Senate representation? Would such representation in some way break down the position of other honourable senators from the States merely because the territories are called territories and not States? 
I also notice that some very selective references were made to the Adelaide Convention of 1897. They are completely irrelevant and misleading. Of course, I point out that the 1 897 Convention was one of the conventions that led up to federation. Of course, all sorts of debates took place on this type of thing. But at that stage there were no territories because the Northern Territory was not in existence and, of course, the Australian Capital Territory was not even contemplated at that stage. But even though there were no territories at that stage, there was acknowledged in the Constitution the possibility that one day this Parliament would have to legislate for exactly that situation. It could hardly be envisaged in those days that 250,000 people would live in the territories, as they do today. As I say, even in those days section 122 was written into the Constitution. It clearly gives us the right to do exactly what this Bill is seeking to do today. The situation at federation was that the founding fathers did not debar anybody from being represented in the Senate. Everybody living in some pan of Australia had the right to be represented in the Senate. I state for the benefit of those people who like to quote the Convention of 1897 and the Australian Constitution which was drawn up at the turn of the century that that is not the situation today. What this Bill attempts to do is to bring the situation originally envisaged into being so that we will again have significant parts of Australia being represented in the Senate. 
The other argument that I have located is that the election of Territory senators would be anomalous and that they would vote according to sectional and regional interests. This argument is advanced by the same people who are always chiding the Senate and saying that the Senate does not represent the States- in other words that the senators speak for sectional interests. Now we are told that if the territorian senators are going to do it, then somehow they will be completely wrong. We are told that they would not vote with a national outlook. What sort of an argument is that? Of course, the fact is that senators vote in the Senate as they do in the House of Representatives, that is, on Party lines. That is where the rub starts to come. 
Another argument I have seen advanced- I do not think that it was put forward in the Senate, thank heavens- was that these 4 Territorian senators would in some way combine or somehow the aspirations of the Northern Territorians and Australian Capital Territorians would be so similar to one another that they would form a little party of their own and would be able to hold sway in the event of a deadlock. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Chairman, I said before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that this was a simple Bill and was introducing only 2 new elements into the electoral system. One was to elect to the Senate 2 senators from the 2 Territories of Australia, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. We have already passed one Bill which gave some sort of equality of voting, and this Bill is endeavouring to give some equality to representation in Australia. The argument that the Opposition has put forward is that the Senate is a States House. Of course, that is a myth, but it is the argument that the Opposition puts forward. If it wants to stick to that argument, what it is saying is that the people in the Australian Capital Territory will not at any stage in history be represented in the second chamber in the Australian Parliament. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. If it says that the Senate is a States House and therefore the Territories cannot be represented in it, it is saying that the Australian Capital Territory will never be represented in the Senate. I understand that at least the Australian Country Party- I am not sure of the Liberalssays that the Northern Territory one day will become a State and its people will be able to be represented in the Senate. When? If it has Senate representation, how many representatives will it have? If it becomes a State it must have 10 senators and the situation will be much worse than we are accused of trying to make it at the moment. 
The other argument, of course, is that senators representing the Territories would be sec.tionalists and would be arguing for the rights of the Territories. Yet, as I said earlier, the Opposition maintains that the Senate ought to be a States House. Therefore, senators ought to be arguing for their States. Of course, the only time that senators argue for their States is when they meet in the Party rooms, because the Senate is run just the same as the House of Representatives is. It is run on Party lines. 
All that the Opposition has put up is just so much poppycock. The real reason it wants this Bill defeated is that it enjoys, by a particular turn of events, a situation where in spite of the fact that the Australian Labor Party has won 2 elections the Opposition in another place, because of its numbers, is able to frustrate the Government's legislative program. The real reason the Opposition opposes this measure is that it wants no 'alteration to the numbers in the Senate. If a quarter of a million people in Australia are to suffer, that is too bad. They are only people. The Opposition will not give up the grip that it has on the Senate at the moment 
Let me come to what I term the last diversion. All the arguments that the Opposition has put forward are diversions. Honourable members opposite are not analysing the situation and their arguments are no real reason for opposition to the Bill. The last diversion is the question of the 
Territories other than the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Opposition has approached this question in different ways.  Senator Greenwood  today asked this question. 'If provision is made for 2 senators to represent each of the Territories what is to stop a provision being made for 10 or 50 senators ?' What sort of argument is that? It is a Greenwood argument. If there is proportional representation and there is a representation of 50, or even 70-1 suppose we do not stop at 50 under  Senator Greenwood  's formula- what is the difference if, out of the 50, 25 sit on either side?  Senator Greenwood  's argument holds up only if the Senate is indeed a States House. It would hold up if it was said: 'All right, if we provide for 100 or 200 senators from the Territories we will thwart the States House'. Then the argument would have some validity, but it has no validity at the moment because the Senate does not operate as a States House and nobody in his right senses would ever claim that it does. 
The Opposition asks: 'What about the other Territories?' However it does not specify them. What are the other Territories? They are Christmas Island, Cartier and Ashmore Islands, and Heard Island, where nobody lives. The Opposition approached this aspect in 2 ways. It said that if there is one person living on any of these islands he will become the local senator. On the other hand it says that when the number of people on these islands starts to build up they will want to be represented too. My answer to that is that if there are a significant number of people in these Territories they should be represented. What we are saying is that no Australians should be debarred. 
The Opposition says that the Government is thwarting the Constitution. I repeat that we are putting the electoral situation back to where it was when the Constitution was first written. At that time it did not exclude any Australians from being represented in both Houses of Parliament. We are trying to return to that situation. If those islands which I mentioned ever get to a situation where they have a significant number of people, then of course they ought to be represented. What is the final brake on this rot which honourable members and honourable senators opposite talk? 
-The honourable member is going on with the States House business again. What absolute rot.  Mr Chairman,  even if we reach the situation where we say that we will allow these 2 Territories to be represented and that we will worry later about representation of other territories, when we get down to Christmas Island or Ashmore Island this Parliament will have to have a similar Bill before it. It cannot be done automatically. That Bill will have to go through the normal democratic processes of Government, the media, and public opinion, which finally determines our actions in this place. The Opposition talks about the Northem Territory without stating what representation it will give in the Senate if the Territory becomes a State, as the Opposition says it will. It does not say when this will happen and it does not say how many representatives it will have in the Senate. But, of course, the real reason for this opposition does not lie in any of these diversions which the Opposition puts forward. The real reason is that it wants to maintain the situation which we have now in the Senate. That is why the Opposition says it is prepared to give Senate representation to the Northern Territory in due course but not to the Australian Capital Territory. It is looking at the immediate situation and where it thinks the electoral advantage lies, either in maintaining the situation as it is today or, alternatively, in allowing representation for the Northern Territory where proportional representation will look after the political situation. But not so with the Australian Capital Territory. 
The real reason is that Opposition members believe that they were born to rule and that nobody else in the community is capable of doing so or even should be allowed to do so. They do not care if we go to the public a dozen times and if we win a dozen elections; these people of the Opposition think they were born to rule. They will not accept the decision of the people. They will not accept that they are in opposition. They intend to maintain their present position by hook or by crook. As I say, it does not worry the Opposition whether it is a quarter of a million people or half the Australian population who suffer. They are only people. The Opposition wants to stay where it is so that it can carry out the dictates of its masters who control it from outside this House. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Twelve. 
Environment and Conservation; Social Security; Immigration (to be re-allocated); Overseas Trade; Primary Industry; Attorney General; Aboriginal Affairs; Capital Territory; Defence; Northern Development; Manufacturing Industry; Education (awaiting delivery). 
To facilitate movement and reduce the cost of the transportation of Ministers' staff to and from Parliament House. 
Similar conditions apply as to other users of vehicles issued to Government departments. 
-Two carpet layers were sent from Australia to lay carpets in 15 apartments made available by the Chinese authorities for accommodation of the Australian staff of the Embassy. However, this was not for security reasons but because the Chinese authorities would not make the services of local tradesmen available, nor would they allow entry of tradesmen from Hong Kong to carry out this work. At present 12 Chinese nationals are employed in the Australian Embassy in Peking. Approval has been obtained to employ another two, and the Embassy is at present seeking to fill these positions. Thirteen Chinese nationals are employed by the Australian staff in their apartments m Peking, including five employed at the official residence. There are a considerable number of Australian embassies and other missions overseas where, when certain work is undertaken, local tradesmen are not employed for security reasons. However, such work does not include carpet laying. As far as I am aware, we have received no formal request to facilitate the entry of tradesmen to Australia for this purpose. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Statistical Returns containing the information sought by the Honourable  Senator are  at present being printed. In due course, they will be tabled in both Houses of the Parliament and published as Parliamentary Papers. Documents showing this information were circulated by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer to all then Senators and Members and further copies are available on request. In addition, the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service has prepared a paper entitled 'Prices and Incomes Referendums, 8 December 1973' available through the Parliamentary Library. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
The number of persons enrolled for each Division for the referendums held on 8 December 1973 is shown in the following table: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) The driver was an Australian Capital Territory resident working in Queanbeyan at the time. 
I understand the steam-roller carried New South Wales registration. The matter is the subject of a coronial inquiry. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) An officer of the Australian High Commission at Suva was appointed Assistant Returning Officer and the usual postal voting facilities were provided at that place for the elections/referendums held on 18 May 1974. Thirty-six postal votes were issued by the Assistant Returning Officer at Suva. Owing to the large number of candidates in the Senate elections the printing and dispatch of material involved more time than previously but all overseas Assistant Returning Officers were fully equipped prior to polling day. 
See(l). 
Death of Steam-roller Driver (Question No. 50) 
No, I was not aware that some questions had been asked. Evidently, from what  Senator Drake-Brockman  says, there are some on notice. I will chase them up to see that they are answered. The question of advising the Soviet Union did not come into it. All we did was send  Sir James  Plimsoll, the Ambassador to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to visit these areas. By that action- similar to the technique adopted in the Goa incident- recognition of the incorporation became de jure - 
Rhodesia is completely different - 
No, it is quite a different matter. It is not a question of its being a communist country. The fact is that Rhodesia has been declared black by the United Nations. The difference between the Government which the honourable senators opposite supported and this Government is that we are prepared to carry out the decisions of the United Nations wholeheartedly, not half-heartedly as did the previous Government. 
-I think we are to debate this subject tomorrow. Perhaps the question could be left till then. 
-A11 right. You want me to answer it. 
I do not recall on what date  Sir James  Plimsoll went there. 
-It is the same thing. The decision that was made was to send him there. I do not recall the date. I could find out for the honourable senator. Was I present at the Cabinet meeting? No, it was not a Cabinet decision. It is clear policy and therefore it is carried out by the Minister. Those were the 2 points of the question, I think. 
The decision was made while I was overseas, but I concurred in it when I returned. The situation was that I ordered a paper to be prepared on the pros and cons of the subject as one always does before making decisions such as this. The paper was submitted to the Acting Minister while I was away. He made the decision. I concur in what he did. 
-No; I concur in this one. 
-I thought that I had made perfectly clear that that is exactly what we are trying to do. The Russians are entitled to consular access to this person. He will be brought before a group of people this afternoon at 1 o'clock or at whatever time is arranged in Perth. These people will be able to see perfectly well what he is going to do. 
-Yes, the Russian will be present. 
It is very obvious that we are going to be at cross-purposes here. What this exercise is all about is to give the freedom of choice to a young man in a foreign country. It is not about grandstanding; it is not about trying to make political capital; and it is not about trying to exacerbate a situation between 2 countries which already have diplomatic relations. But it is obvious that some people will try to make it that way. What I have done in arranging this meeting this afternoon is as fair as I can possibly make it. There will be a cross-section of people at the meeting. The lawyers who want to be there are entitled to be present. Because one Russian wants to be there people are going to say that this is going to make the whole thing null and void. What would the honourable senator say if the same situation existed in Russia and one of our embassy staff was denied the right to be present? He would be the first on his feet accusing us of kowtowing to the Russians or something else. 
9LLEGAL EXPORT OF AUSTRALIAN FAUNA 
In the first part of  Senator Chaney  's question he repeats what I said, that originally on Sunday  Mr Ermolenko  said that he did not want to see any Russians. I think that included Professor Kabalevsky. Then next day, as  Senator Chaney  has said,  Mr Ermolenko  saw them. 
-I cannot answer that; I do not know. During yesterday afternoon  Mr Ermolenko  spent quite a lot of time with our man  Mr Henne  who told me that he agreed with Professor Callaway that  Mr Ermolenko  was relaxed and wanted to leave. I do not know for how long he was there. As to the next part of the question, I take the honourable senator to be referring to the meeting today and when  Mr Ermolenko  will leave, should he be there. I do not know whether he will decide to leave. Quite frankly, I do not know what the position will be. 
No. What the Government has done is exactly what the Opposition, when in Government, did in relation to Goa. We followed its example. 
-Because of the interest in this matter I have prepared a reply. With your permission,  Mr President,  I will read it. It is a little long - 
-The moment a government did that, it would lay itself open to the charge that we were putting pressure on him. That has already been suggested. 
-I do not know the exact date. If this matter is so important to the honourable senator I will find out the answer and let him know. 
-No, I did not say that. 
-I think, answering the last part of the honourable senator's question that I have already done that. However, because of the interest being shown in this matter I think I should run over briefly for  Senator Withers  and other interested people what the situation is up to this time. On Sunday  Mr Ermolenko,  an 18 year old who has been visiting Australia with other Russians to participate in a music festival in Perth, went to the Perth Airport to leave this country.  Mr Ermolenko,  who does not speak 
English very well, then said that he did not want to leave. He was taken to a non-public area of the airport terminal by the Immigration Officer on duty. It was then agreed that he would stay in Australia and talk to the Department of Labor and Immigration on Monday morning. He left the airport in the care of the sub-warden of St George's College of the University of Western Australia. The remainder of the party decided not to catch the plane. Professor Kabalevsky, who is a very noted composer and who is in charge of the group, and  Mr Alexandroff,  a clerk at the Soviet Embassy in Canberra, sought to talk to  Mr Ermolenko  on Sunday night, but he indicated that he did not wish to talk to them at that time. 
On Monday  Mr Ermolenko  contacted Professor Kabalevsky at the Parmelia Hotel and arranged to see him at 1 1 o'clock after he had an interview with an official from the Department of Labor and Immigration. After talking to Professor Kabalevsky he decided that he wanted to go back to Russia. A note on where things stood was prepared for me when I arrived by plane in Canberra at 5 o'clock yesterday. The group went to the airport again last night to leave this country. My information was that they were refused entry to the plane on which they were to travel because their visas for Singapore were not in order. I understand that one is allowed to stay in Singapore for 24 hours without a visa, but the group intended to stay there for 40 hours. For this reason they were not permitted to board the aircraft. 
I understand that some sort of demonstration was mounted, mainly by members of the Transport Workers Union and the clerks union. I was in contact with the officer of my Department in Perth during the evening. I noticed in this morning's Press that Professor Callaway indicated that he felt that this young man wanted to go back to Russia. He said also that the young man was quite relaxed, and this was the view of my officer. But because of the doubt raised in  Senator Withers'  question and because very obviously this action raises some doubts as to whether  Mr Ermolenko  is under duress from one side or the other, I asked the department officer in Perth to speak to him again this morning to arrange a meeting today. In the meantime I have been told that 2 lawyers, one representing some university students and the other representing Amnesty, are taking an interest in the matter. I anticipated that a question would be asked on this matter and therefore I have jotted down the names of some of the people who will be attending this meeting. Apparently  Mr Hollingsworth,  the secretary of the Australian Journalist's Association of Western Australia will be present. I have asked whether he would be kind enough to attend because I do not want a situation in which there will be a battery of television cameras and a lot of questions asked of an 18-year old who is in a strange country. Representatives of the two unions involved will be there also. 
Last night I gave instructions that the 2 lawyers involved were to be given every facility that could be given to them. They will be invited to be there. I tried to get another Foreign Affairs man over to Perth but the fog in Canberra this morning put paid to that little exercise. However, we have our own local man over there.  Mr Grayden,  the Western Australian State Minister for Immigration, has asked to be present and he will be most welcome. All of this exercise is merely to do one thing. 
Also a medical officer will be present because it has been suggested- there is always the suggestion in such a case- that he might be under sedation or drugs. 
The Commonwealth Medical Officer will be at the interview today. I take it that the interview will be held at the Parmelia Hotel. The whole purpose of this meeting is to give  Mr Ermolenko  a chance to say quite categorically what he wants to do. I want the Australian public to be convinced of this. We all want to be convinced. 

 Mr Ermolenko made 2 decisions. Firstly he said that he did not want to go and secondly he said that he did want to go. This meeting will give him an opportunity to express his wish in front of a group of people who I think honourable senators will agree are a fairly representative group. 
Yes, our man will be there. 
I think there will be. We were talking about this matter this morning. The Russians have put it to us that they would want somebody from their Embassy to be at the interview. So I think I would prefer Professor Kabalevsky to come along. In this situation I do not think we should be denying consular access to the Russian Embassy. If the position were reversed, we would not like that to happen. As honourable senators know, many questions have been asked in the Senate about our demanding consular access to our nationals in other countries. Therefore, I think the Russians should have such access. In fact, I think they could demand it under international law. So I anticipate that Professor Kabalevsky or somebody else may be at the interview today. I repeat that what we are doing is merely giving this lad a chance to state openly what he wants and we are showing the Australian people that this is what we are doing. 
The other matter that has been raised this morning is that two writs have been issued. One has been issued against the Russian officer concerned and the other one calls on the Commissioner of Police to produce the lad in court at a certain time. I cannot give the honourable senators any advice on this matter. Very obviously, the Russian officer concerned can claim diplomatic immunity and he probably will do so. I also point out that Ermolenko is not in custody. He spent last night at the Parmelia Hotel - 
-Wait until I finish. I am about to tell honourable senators. (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
-Senator Durack said and the consul'. I do not know whether he means the Russian consul. 
-Our officer is also with them. I think he missed that point. They are all together in the Parmelia Hotel. Our officer slept there last night and maintained communications with him. As I understand it, yesterday  Mr Ermolenko  spent a lot of the morning with his Russian compatriots. He spent a lot of the afternoon with our man, who told me last night by telephone that overall he probably had about  2Vi  hours with  Mr Ermolenko.  The honourable senator has now asked whether  Mr Ermolenko  can have a talk with the sub-warden. I do not know. I will pass it on to see whether it is possible, if that is what he wants. I thought  Senator Durack  referred a little deprecatingly to having a large body of people at the meeting. I tried to explain why those people were there and. why I tried to keep the gathering as small as possible. I could have let in a lot of Press people but this would have made the pressure twice as great. 
I was told that there were 2 lawyers. I did not want to stop them in any way. There are representatives of the 2 trade unions which have gone out or demonstrated. I brought them into it. I brought the doctor into it. I brought in one pressman to try to cut out the rest of the Press. If  Mr Grayden  wants to come along I think he ought to do so, and our own officer will be there. Perhaps it sounds a little big, but I would like the honourable senator to tell me in those circumstances who else he would have cut out. I believe it is not too big. 

 - Mr President, I can understand perfectly the attitude of people who are genuinely concerned about this very sad and emotive situation. I have lived with it more closely than anybody else from about 6 o'clock to midnight last night and throughout today. I can understand that each and every one of those genuine people believes that he could do very much better than I have done. That is natural. One can only do his very best in the circumstances. I do not know of anything more that could have been done. I hope not to follow  Senator Durack  into the supposedly sinister aspects of innocent actions that he has raised because this is an emotive issue. It is emotive by its very nature and because of the history of events in Australia several years ago. It is a doubly emotive issue because it is happening on the other side of the continent, in Perth which is fairly isolated geographically. I have sympathy for those genuine people. I can understand if they disagree with me and if they think that they could have done very much better than I have done. 
I have very little regard- in fact I have profound contempt- for certain people in Australia who obviously have been trying to climb on to the bandwagon. They have let their emotions run away with them and have very deliberately struck at the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with which we have diplomatic relations. They have placed a sinister connotation on everything we have done. I do not want to dwell on this point.  Senator Durack  made great play of the fact that I said this morning that  Mr Ermolenko  had sought on Monday morning to see the Russian Professor Kabalevsky. The situation was that he was incommunicado on Sunday night. A lot of the Russian Embassy staff were trying to find him and they could not. Everybody now knows that he was at the university. Therefore, had he liked to stay there they could not have found him. But  Senator Durack  has explained tonight that it was suggested to him that he should go and that Kabalevsky was looking for him. Of course he was. But the point was that he made the approach under the advice of his friends to go and see Professor Kabalevsky. I do not think this is tremendously important except that I do not think there is anything sinister in anything I said this morning. The information I gave was according to the note I had before me. I was flying all day yesterday, and that was the note, as I explained this morning, that was put before me when I arrived at about S o 'clock yesterday. 

 Senator Durack has explained what happened at the airport. I do not want to go through that; it is largely correct. Then he came to the question of the meeting this afternoon. I said in answer to a question of his, that 1 did want to keep the meeting small. The fact was that it got very big. Let me assure everybody that I did not tell the Senate that I wanted a small meeting and then run around and organise a big meeting from 2,500 miles away. I did not do that. I wanted it small. I knew that was the only possibility. The reason I selected the people I mentioned to attend is that they were the people who had shown up at the airport and were showing an interest in this case. I repeat what I said this morning: There has been only one thing in my mind right from the very start, that is, not only to obtain what this man's free wish is, but also to show the Australian people as best we can what his wishes are. 
I know that if we have him swearing on a stack of bibles a lot of people will not accept that he will not be whisked out of the country, in the words that  Senator Durack  used, that he is not under duress and all this sort of thing. I know it does not matter what we do, a large number of people have already made their minds up that that is what will happen. The meeting did get too big this afternoon. It was not my fault. I do not know why it happened. A lot of people butted in.  Mr Garland  was not invited but he turned up and so did a lot of other people. Members of the Press, who had already rung my office and complained of the fact that I said they could not go, evidently, as I find out from  Senator Durack,  did turn up. There is nothing we can do about that. In any event,  Mr Ermolenko  refused to go to the meeting and  Mr Henne  suggested as a compromise that the 2 union officials who had been at the airport and who had been the cause of putting the black bans on the aeroplanes, should be the people to talk to him and if they were convinced they would convince others because they were the crucial people who had the black ban on the aircraft. It is strange that  Senator Durack  should speak derogatorily of  Mr Cowles  in this regard.  Mr Cowles  has been leading a very big strike in Perth. Anybody who leads a big strike naturally attracts the ire of many people and he has been under all sorts of cross fire. But if it were not for  Mr Cowles,  this man would have been out of the country last Monday night. 
-The clerks union? But  Mr Cowles  is the man of the Transport Workers Union. He was doing what you people want to do. He was on your side and yet you turn around and speak derogatorily of him tonight when he achieves something. 
-I do not quite get the point of that interjection. But the Opposition people wanted to hold up the departure and  Mr Cowles  was one of the prime movers in holding it up. 
That was the information I had. But if the visas had been OK it is obvious that the union would not have let the plane go that night. Do not try to waffle over this situation. I was informed that British Airways would not carry these people because their visas were out of order. But additional to that, even if the airline would have carried them, it was quite obvious that the unions were going to pull a strike on that night. Now that is a matter of fact. It is so obvious, why should we argue about it? I see nothing sinister in the fact that the meeting failed this afternoon. I tried because it was the only way I could think of last night to bring this matter to a head and to give this man a chance to make a statement. The meeting failed because a lot of people butted in. Even if those people had not butted in perhaps it would have failed anyway. The unions were asked to come to the meeting but those who were attending the meeting said that that was not on. 
Later in the day, as  Senator Durack  has said,  Mr Bluck  of the Professional Musicians Union of Australia took an interest in the matter. He had not been in the picture so far as I know until then, but naturally he had an interest as he was the Secretary of the musicians union.  Mr Michael 
Edgley, a very well known businessman throughout Australia, as were his father and uncle before him, came into the picture. He was probably one of the first people to bring Russian entertainers to Australia. He did so, I think, before the last World War. I am not sure when he started to do so but certainly he has been bringing Russian entertainers to Australia for many years.  Mr Michael  Edgley is a very capable and likeable young man and he has taken an interest in this matter.  Mr Cowles,  an officer of my Department, and  Mr Karl  Henne went to the meeting as it was about to start. The Opposition has been insisting that no member of the Russian Embassy be present at such a meeting, and that was what happened. The interview with  Mr Ermolenko  was carried out not in the presence of any Russians. The only people - 
-I do not know where his so-called friends were, the people to whom the honourable senator is referring. The Opposition is taking 2 people out of the community and saying: 'This is what we want'. The fact is that these people set up a meeting to talk to  Mr Ermolenko.  They were there for at least an hour. The report I was given indicates that they crossexamined him, questioned him and kept him for an hour.  Mr Cowles,  one of the people who has been a prime mover in keeping  Mr Ermolenko  here, and  Mr Bluck,  a man I know particularly well- a capable and a very well-balanced manand  Mr Michael  Edgley who is certainly known to me and I think is probably known to most of us, were completely satisfied that  Mr Ermolenko  wanted to leave Australia. Because of that the unions lifted the black ban. A statement was made to the public in Western Australia by the people who attended that meeting indicating that they were completely satisfied. The meeting held earlier today was held without an official from the Russian Embassy being present. The only other person present was an interpreter of their own. They are the facts. I know that no matter what happens a lot of people will say that he should not be whisked out of the country.  Senator Murphy  referred to this matter earlier today. What is the Opposition seeking to do by introducing its motion? It is a most offensive motion. What the Opposition is assuming and hinting at all through its motion is that there will be duress and improper pressures placed on  Mr Ermolenko.  The Opposition has said that the Government should prevent pressures being brought down on  Mr Ermolenko  by officials of the Russian Embassy. Why do not Opposition senators say that the Government should prevent duress and pressure being brought on  Mr Ermolenko  by anybody? What the Opposition is saying is that if in some way we can get  Mr Ermolenko  away from his own countrymen and away from his own Embassy for 24 hours he might come to some sort of a decision. I ask honourable senators opposite one question: What would be their attitude if I agreed to that being done with an Australian in Moscow? They would have my head down on the carpet. Members of the Opposition would say. 'What sort of concern is that- that the Government would let an Australian be treated in that way in Russia or in any other country?' And their concern would be quite justified. What happened today was that  Mr Ermolenko  withdrew himself and the matter was discussed for more than an hour. The Opposition is saying that the Russian Embassy is going to put undue pressures, duress and improper pressures on him- and all the rest of it- but nobody else in Australia would even think of doing anything like that. What sort of position does the Opposition think it is putting the Russian Embassy in here? 
Reverse the procedures. If an Australian was in Moscow in similar circumstances and I, as Foreign Minister, agreed to his remaining there in similar circumstances, what would the Opposition's attitude be? We would hear howls from the four corners of Australia. This has been a difficult exercise. It has been harrowing. I can understand people becoming very emotive about it. Unfortunately  Senator Durack,  in what otherwise was a reasonable speech, talked about the sinister aspect of a lot of people attending the meeting and all those things which were probably on all the time. It was an honest attempt on my part to bring about what the Opposition and all Australians desire. I return to this point: I, on behalf of the Government, had only one thing in mind, and that was that this young man of 18 years of age should state what he wanted and that his decision should be carried out. I have not been interested in getting headlines. I have not been interested in making this into a political battle. I have not been interested- unfortunately some people have- in using it as an attempt to strike at a country which has very different standards from ours. 
In all such matters of foreign affairs we have difficulty in dealing with countries which look at things in a different way from the way in which we look at them. Australia 's strength is that it can do those things. Because of our geographical situation we must learn to do so with people of different cultures and different ways from our own. In the past few days officers of my Department have had talks with officials from the Russian Embassy. We have been able to keep these talks on an even keel, in spite of the very broad differences and the emotions which have been welling up between us. People have been trying to put a sinister motive into these talks and exacerbate the situation between the 2 nations. I do not charge all members of the Opposition with trying to do that. I do not charge any particular group. Some people have tried to do so. If the cap fits, wear it. We have tried to do only one thing. 
The motion states that we should prevent this man from leaving the country. He has every right to return to his homeland. What right has the Australian Government to take the troops out or use strong arm tactics and to say that for no reason at all he should stay, that because we do not like something about the matter we will stop him from going? That would put us in an impossible situation. There is no legal reason why these people cannot leave the country. There is no industrial reason, because the unions have been convinced that this man, of his own free will, wants to return to his homeland. The black ban has been lifted. I assume that he will be going whenever accommodation can be arranged for him. 
-I understand that he is the Cultural Attache, that that is his title. I suppose he does all the things that a cultural attache does. I cannot give the honourable senator details of them. 
-I regret that I cannot immediately give that information to  Senator Laucke  but I shall refer the question to the Minister for the Capital Territory and obtain an answer as soon as possible. 
-I remember  Senator Wheeldon  speaking eulogistically last night of the abilities of the professor as a musician, and  Senator Wheeldon  obviously would have some knowledge of that. I do not know whether Professor Kabalevsky said something in some Moscow journal last year. The honourable senator asks whether we are taking advice from Professor Kabalevsky. The answer is no. He is one person from whom I am not taking any advice; he is one of many persons from whom I am not taking any advice. 
In equating what happened in Goa with what has taken place in the three Baltic states, I pointed out that the technique of recognition was exactly the same in both instances. I do not think it will ever be possible to compare any two countries in the world in terms of their background, what they are doing or their ethnic types. The moment you try to do that I think you get on to an impossible track. Because there was criticism about the way we had acted in relation to the three Baltic states I pointed out that the technique used by the Government was exactly the same as the previous Government had employed in regard to Goa. The previous Government did not make any announcements. It instructed its Ambassador- strange to say, it happens to be the Ambassador who is involved in the present situation,  Sir James  Plimsoll- to visit Goa and that that act was to signify de jure recognition. We copied this technique from the previous Government. 
-The Australian Information Service supplies our 75 posts abroad with the type of material to which the honourable senator refers. The Service comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Media. The Department of Foreign Affairs makes its requirements known. As I understand it, there is a general distribution of serial publications including those dealing with statistics as well as general articles. Each post individually informs the Department of Foreign Affairs what it wants. I know that 'Meanjin' and 'Quadrant' are two of the magazines which the posts receive. I certainly could not give  Senator Button  a complete answer off the top of my head. I will obtain a comprehensive list and let him have it. 
In reply to the last part of the question, I do not know. I am not aware of the book to which the honourable senator has referred. I do not know whether what he suggested in the last part of the question is true or not.  Mr Smirnov  is the Charge d 'Affaires at the Soviet Embassy as  Mr Musin,  the Ambassador, is absent, I understand on sick leave in Georgia. The Ambassador took sick here, but he is either on holidays or on sick leave. He is not in Canberra.  Mr Smirnov  is acting as the Charge d 'Affaires. There have been several conversations between  Mr Smirnov  and me and between  Mr Smirnov  and  Mr Alan  Renouf, the head of my Department. I will not answer questions concerning the details of the things which we have talked about over the last few days. If I were to do so I would be here for months. 

 Mr GEORGI ERMOLENKO 
-I answered that question by saying that I have had several conversations with  Mr Smirnov,  and so has  Mr Renouf,  the head of my Department. I will not comment on the things that we have talked about. 
Yes. The last part of the question is really what the Nara Treaty is all about. I did see the article. The situation at the moment is that our people have just been to Tokyo. Their discussions centred on the Australian revision of the Japanese draft. We gave the Japanese a draft. They gave us one back. The third talks aimed at ironing them out. The fourth talks are to take place in Canberra fairly soon. The date has not been fixed but I hope that it will be within a month or two. A lot has been said about the Nara Treaty. I would not like anyone to obtain false ideas about it. I am quite sure that they could gain false ideas by reading a recent misleading article to which  Senator Milliner  has referred. It suggests that the Treaty is shaping up very differently from the original conception and is devoid of content. 
It is quite true that the Treaty is unlikely to set out detailed rules and regulations or rights and obligations, as treaties usually do. It is not that type of treaty. The Nara Treaty was not conceived as just another treaty, such as the Trade Agreement or the Migratory Birds Agreement which were specific. It is to be a broad treaty, setting the framework of Japanese- Australian relations, enabling the 2 Governments to put agreements already concluded into a broad context and also to establish the basis for further cooperation, including new agreements on specific matters. An important purpose of the treaty is to express in a more formal and symbolic way the friendship, the community of interests and indeed the inter-dependence which exist between the 2 countries. It should be noted, I think, that neither Japan nor Australia has concluded, or indeed sought, such an agreement with any other country before. I think this in itself is a mark of the close relationship which already exists and which both countries wish to formalise, stabilise and broaden. 
-I will supply the honourable senator with a list of the countries concerned. This country would automatically inform most of the western European group of countries and others. But I shall get the information for the honourable senator. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The price of phosphate in each Australian State and New Zealand was: 
$17.33 per tonne up to 30 June 1974, and has been 
$35.97 since 1 July 1974. 
The British Phosphate Commissioners are not principals in the supply of sulphur but act as managing agents for the Sulphur Purchasing Associations in Australia and New Zealand. 
We have reached the following position in relation to  Mr Ermolenko.  The following people have seen  Mr Ermolenko  and have discussed his wishes with him. I emphasise that all of these people saw  Mr Ermolenko  while no Russians, either Embassy officials or fellow musicians, were present:  Mr Michael  Edgley, a nationally known businessman and entrepreneur,  Mr Rob  Cowles, the Western Australian secretary of the Transport Workers Union and  Mr Harry  Bluck secretary of the Western Australian branch of the Musicians Union. All saw  Mr Ermolenko  on Tuesday. Yesterday, the Honourable John Tonkin MLA saw  Mr Ermolenko. Mr Tonkin  expressed himself as quite satisfied that  Mr Ermolenko  genuinely wanted to return home to Russia. I may say that I asked  Mr Tonkin  whether he would go to see  Mr Ermolenko  because I wanted a man who I believe, irrespective of politics, is completely accepted politically by the Western Australian people, to see  Mr Ermolenko.  I have known  Mr Tonkin  for the whole of my adult life. He is a man who I know is incapable of telling a lie or of being dishonest.  Mr Harding,  the organiser of the Federated Clerks Union, said that he was not satisfied that  Mr Ermolenko  was speaking entirely without duress even though there were no other Russians present. In this connection I am obliged to point out that  Mr Harding  is a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and his imperviousness to evidence may not be unconnected with that fact.  Mr Coleman,  the secretary of the Trades and Labour Council, has also seen  Mr Ermolenko  and is quite satisfied about the genuineness of his desire to return to the Soviet Union. I talked to  Mr Coleman  about that. 
As a further demonstration of  Mr Ermolenko  's desire to be returned to the Soviet Union, he subjected himself to a 25-minute television interview in which he was thoroughly quizzed on his wish to return to the Soviet Union. No Russians were present during this interview and  Mr Ermolenko  at all times maintained that he wished to return to the Soviet Union as soon as possible. I am obliged to say that I have nothing but complete contempt for the self-appointed mind readers, spiritual guides and guardians who claim in the face of all this evidence that they alone can determine what  Mr Ermolenko  wants. I also condemn the publicity seekers and political grandstander. who have made this unfortunate incident the occasion for detaining a young man in Australia against his will for the sake of what they see as the making of cheap political capital and the opportunity to embarrass the Russian and Australian Governments, both of which they would like to see fall. 
The Australian Parliament passed the Genocide Convention Act in 1949. The convention was ratified by us on 8 July 1949. Laws in force in Australia in relation to the offences of murder, manslaughter, assault, conspiracy and incitement and other matters are sufficient to enable Australia to comply with its obligations under the convention. The Human Rights Bill and the Racial Discrimination Bill which will be introduced into the Parliament by the Government will, when passed, reinforce Australia's compliance with the terms of the genocide convention. 
In the court yesterday the judge said that it was probably not a proper question to ask, but he did ask whether counsel appearing for the Commonwealth would give a guarantee that  Mr Ermolenko  would not be taken away before the case resumed today.  Senator Chaney,  who is a lawyer and whose firm is represented in this case- he has a special interest in it- would well know that the instruction that counsel appearing for the Commonwealth had was to present a certificate signed by me stating that  Mr Alexandrov  had diplomatic status in the pursuit of his duties in Perm. As I say, as a lawyer,  Senator Chaney  would understand that that was the only instruction that the counsel had, and he informed the court that that was the situation. I am interested to hear that  Senator Chaney  has spoken to the Reverend Johnson who says that he still has doubts about the matter. I have done my best to get  Mr Ermolenko  to speak to  Mr Johnson,  but he refuses to do it; he says that he does not want to see  Mr Johnson  and that he does not want to talk to him.  Mr Tonkin  did the same thing; he asked  Mr Ermolenko  whether he would see  Mr Johnson  and whether he would go and stay with  Mr Johnson.  On both occasions the answer was no. He does not want anything to do with  Mr Johnson. 
We are talking a lot about civil liberties. What about some civil liberties for this young man? What about getting a little bit of pressure off him? Let us start to recognise what he wants. I do not doubt for one moment that  Mr Johnson  wants to see  Mr Ermolenko;  I accept completely  Senator Chaney  's word on that. I think that  Mr Johnson  has a genuine interest in this matter. But the fact is the young man is not going to see  Mr Johnson;  he has refused several times to do so. I do not know how many more people want to see  Mr Ermolenko.  We have had retinues of people to see him. He appears on television, he gets about a 25 minute cross-examination on television. He keeps saying the one thing: That he wants to go home. He keeps saying that he made a mistake in the first place, he regrets it, and he wants to go home. How much longer is this farce and this three ring circus to continue? 
-No, I would never under any circumstances try to explain how something gets into the Press. I just do not know. I have been a member of this chamber for a long time but I have not been able to work that out. I am afraid I cannot help  Senator Greenwood  on that aspect. 
-Senator Douglas McClelland has reminded me of what the members of my family do for a living. I do not know the name of the woman who was the interpreter, but I saw her being interviewed on television. It has been reported to me that she said that she was not satisfied that he was saying the things that were in his mind. I understand that that report is true. I have not checked it. As she was present in a technical capacity to do a technical job, I do not think that she should have bought in on one side or the other. She was there as an interpreter. She was entitled to say what she said, but I do not think that someone who is employed as a technician ought to come in on one side or the other. 
What is incorrect about her statement- I understand that some other people have made the same error- is the comment that there was another Russian in the room during the course of the interview. I rang Perth early in the morning when I knew the interview was on and did all I possibly could- I was about to say that I insisted but I could not insist as I could not put a headlock on any fellow from 2,500 miles away to keep him out- to make sure that there was no Russian in the room. I was informed by officers of my Department-I checked on this matter this morning- that it was not so that such a fellow was in the room. There may have been a misunderstanding. I think I should say that the Russians have been pretty fair in allowing their man to go out of the room while this interview was going on. But would one of us really be intimidated if a Liberal Party or Labor Party man were sitting opposite? Can a person's thoughts be controlled by some magic in the air? Irrespective of that, in all of these things a Russian has not been - 
-He has been doing that for 25 years. But irrespective of what has been said, no Russian was in the room- and I do not know what difference it would have made if one had been. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Minister for Services and Property, whose Department administers the system whereby Federal Members of Parliament may send telegrams as an official charge, has informed me that accounts have been received by his Department for payment of 612 phonograms, at a total cost of $2,088.17, which were lodged between 7 and 1 1 June 1974 for despatch to certain State local government authorities and which were charged against the Federal Member's Authority card on personal issue to the Right Honourable the Leader of the Opposition. 
Details are listed in the table below. The contents of the phonograms are not known. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) An Australian citizen who is only temporarily domiciled in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands may retain voting rights in Federal elections, provided that he fulfils the enrolment qualifications specified in section 39 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, and has retained enrolment for the appropriate Electoral Division. An Australian citizen permanently domiciled outside Australia is not entitled to enrol for a Division nor is he entitled to vote at Federal elections. 
) Yes, in respect of external territories. 
It is not proposed to change the 'status quo' concerning the enrolment and voting entitlement of Australian citizens permanently domiciled in external territories. 
The Minister for Services and Property has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question. The answer to each of the three parts of the question are contained in the following tables dealing with the 1967, 1970 and 1974 Senate elections respectively: 
In respect of each of these elections, the detailed list of candidates forfeiting deposits; candidates' party affiliations; and first preference votes polled is prefaced by a summary, consisting of a two-part breakdown analysis on a StatebyState andParty basis respectively. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The answers to each of the three parts of the question are contained in the following tables dealing with the 1966, 1969, 1972 and 1974 House of Representatives elections respectively. 
In respect of each of the four elections the detailed list of candidates forfeiting deposits, candidates' party affiliations, and first preference votes polled is prefaced by a Summary, consisting of a two-part break-down analysis of the number of candidates forfeiting deposits on a State-by-State and Party basis respectively. 
On 1 August 1974,  Senator Gietzelt  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a military tribunal has sentenced to death 3 Chilean Air Force Officers and a top public official for collecting information about a clandestine military plot during the period of  President  Allende's legal government and prior to the coup? Is it not the obligation of all responsible citizens to collate information about treasonable activities against a legal and democratic government and report it to the appropriate authorities? In these circumstances, will the Minister give urgent consideration to appealing to the Chilean Junta not to carry out the death sentences? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
. The Embassy in Santiago has reported that on 30 July the Chilean authorities announced death sentences for treason, conspiracy and sedition for ex-Colonel Ernesto Galiz, ex-Captain Raul Vergara, ex-Sergeant Belarmino Constanzo and one Carlos Lazo, former Vice  President  of the Central Bank. 2.I now understand that these sentences have been commuted to terms of imprisonment. While this welcome step was taken before we had time to raise the matter with the Chileans, they are of course well aware of our strongly felt attitude to the persecution of opponents of the Junta. 
If there were any instructions to go out as to how people should behave in situations such as that which arose in this sad affair, I would be giving those instructions to certain people who are not in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
No consideration has been given to that question either by my Department or by myself. 
Because there are more references to smuggling I will not answer the questions. 
-I am glad that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has become engrossed in the possibility of an Australian being elected  president  of the General Assembly next year. No, we have not approached any of those groupings because it would be plain stupid to do it. They do not have a vote. 

 Mr GEORGI ERMOLENKO 
-No, it was not definite on Wednesday night. That is the first point. The honourable senator asks: What is the reason for secrecy? I think that becomes perfectly obvious because of the situation that was taking place at the Perth Airport. I just do not see the point of the question. 
Firstly  Mr Ermolenko  never sought the protection of the court. Here we get the central theme: The only body which has been following the issue and worrying about Ermolenko has been the Australian Government. This type of question shows where  Senator Greenwood's  mind is. He was not concerned about the matter at all. He says that we want to continue a servile relationship with a communist country. We are carrying on the same relationship with the same communist country as his Party did when it was in government.  His  Party broke off diplomatic relations with the country over the Petrov affair. It was his Party which reinstated diplomatic relations. We are doing exactly the same as that. A writ of habeas corpus was taken out against the Commonwealth Police. The court heard it, threw it out and ordered costs against the plaintiffs. 
-I notice that  Senator Durack  and  Senator Greenwood  who are both lawyers keep referring to the fact that the man Ermolenko has been held in custody. They know perfectly well that that is not so. 
-Would you just keep quiet, little boy. Opposition senators talk about the question of political asylum when there was never an application for political asylum. It is unthinkable that a person who is not interested in politics and who has just turned 18 years of age should wish to make such an application. Unfortunately, it was nobody's responsibility but mine to take the actions that I outlined at the Press conference yesterday. It was for me to be convinced whether or not he had a desire to stay in Australia. I made my mind up on the clear, incontrovertible facts which were before me. 
-It was my job to do it. I did it and because of the circumstances I did what any proper government ought to do. We had no legal right to keep him here. If anybody was keeping anybody else in custody, it was members of the community keeping this man in custody and preventing him from returning home. 
-I have a note on this as I thought there might be a question on this matter. On 8 August a Transit Tour camping bus crashed 1 70 kilometres from Kiyev in the south of that country. Some 22 Australians were among the group of approximately 40 people on that bus. Five persons, including Miss Irvine, one New Zealander and three Canadians, were hospitalised at Chernigov. The remainder of the party, some of whom suffered cuts and bruises, were assisted by Russian authorities who took them to Kiyev. Miss Gillian Irvine, aged 21, was the only person seriously injured. She suffered a fracture at the base of the skull and some haemorrhaging. The neuro-surgeon treating her reported on Wednesday that Miss Irvine's condition had improved since Monday but that she should not travel for at least 2 1 days. A consular officer will travel from Moscow tomorrow to visit Miss Irvine. Our Embassy has been in touch with both the neuro-surgeon treating Miss Irvine and the director of the hospital during the week. We have every reason to believe that Miss Irvine and the other injured travellers are receiving all possible assistance and medical treatment. 
-The Russians on the aircraft were the group that came to Australia as visitors and were being held up from going back to their homeland. I think there were eight in all. They were not smuggled out of the country. The Royal Australian Air Force was acting under my clear instructions and those involved were carrying out their duties as members of the RAAF. I am quite satisfied with the precautions that were taken. I was asked whether I am satisfied that no member of the KGB was on board. As far as I know there was not, but I do not know whether there was or not. As to the cost, if that is important I will find out. 
-Australia certainly deplores the renewed outbreak of very serious hostilities in Cyprus. We supported the resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council re-affirming its earlier resolution 3S3 demanding that all parties to the present fighting cease all firing and military action forthwith and resume negotiations without delay. Security Council resolution 353 called on all states to respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus and called for an immediate end to foreign military intervention in Cyprus. 
The Australian Government recognises the long and bitter political background to the Cyprus problem. In the past the Turkish minority on the island has been denied its constitutional rights in many respects. Moreover, the TurkishCypriot minority is entitled, as indeed is the Greek-Cypriot majority, to guarantees of security, safety and constitutional rights. It was our hope that the Geneva negotiations would reach a solution to this problem and thus ensure that peace and security were re-established on Cyprus for all the people of the island. It is to be regretted that the tripartite negotiations in Geneva, between Britain, Greece and Turkey apparently broke down because the Turkish Government refused to permit a 36-hour adjournment to enable the Greek Foreign Minister,  Mr Mavros,  and the Acting  President  of Cyprus,  Mr Clerides,  to consider Turkish demands for the establishment of self-governing Greek and Turkish districts under a federal government in Cyprus. For the Turkish Foreign Minister to issue an ultimatum that such a complex and far-reaching matter as the future constitutional arrangements for Cyprus should in effect be determined without appropriate consideration by the Greek or Cyprus governments is quite unreasonable. It is the more regrettable that Turkish forces should have then breached the ceasefire and are now extending the area under their control by force of arms. The onus for the resumption of fighting lies squarely on the Turkish forces. 
Australia is continuing to play an active role in current efforts by the Security Council to achieve a ceasefire and to get negotiations started again. I am informed that the Security Council is in active session at present- that is, a.m. our time- and the Australian permanent representative,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, has been instructed to support resolutions insisting on the full implementation of all the recent resolutions on Cyprus by the Security Council, that those resolutions be respected by all parties and that there be an immediate and strict observance of the ceasefire. The Australian permanent representative also has been instructed to support a new resolution which would record the Security Council's formal disapproval of the resumption of military operations in Cyprus by the Turkish Government and calls on the parties to resume negotiations without delay. 
As further evidence of our concern, and in order to make a tangible contribution to the reestablishment of peace on Cyprus, on 8 August the Australian Government offered to the Secretary-General of the United Nations a force of approximately 200 Australian troops to join the United Nations peace-keeping forces on the island. We also intend to maintain our police contingent which took up duty there in 1964. 
-Mr McLeod wrote to me on 17 July and I replied on 29 July but in the meantime he had circulated, I suppose the same letter to all members of Parliament. Had he been prepared to wait for my reply he would have learned that the Government had no intention of participating in a World Bank or Asian Development Bank sponsored aid group for South Vietnam unless, as seems unlikely, a parallel arrangement could be organised for North Vietnam. The Government's contributions to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are made without restriction as to the choice of developing countries in which the contributions might be used. It would be inconsistent with our responsibilities as a member of these financial institutions to attempt to lay down such restrictions. 
In reply to the second part of the question, neither the Paris agreement nor the International Conference on Vietnam required international recognition of the People's Revolutionary Government. The Paris agreement sought rather to give the PRG a recognised place in the political life of South Vietnam as part of the process of national reconciliation- a process which the Australian Government supports. I could go on for hours answering this question but I think the best way of dealing with it is to seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard my reply to  Mr McLeod. 
I answered most of those questions at a Press conference yesterday. I do not quite see the point about it all. 
-I will tell  Senator Greenwood  if he will just wait a little while. Surely I am entitled to say that all of this is already on public record, or does that upset  Senator Greenwood's  fine tendencies in this issue? I have said right throughout that I was handling the case. When I decided to take this action I spoke to the Prime Minister and asked him to make the aircraft available. I explained to him what it was for. He concurred in that. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Grants Commission Act 1973 I present for the information of honourable senators the first report- 1974- of the Grants Commission on financial assistance to local government. 
-I have read quite a lot of reports on the Ermolenko case. I do not think that any of them alters what finally happened. During the course of that week a very deliberate attempt was made to get me to move away from the central issue. I have described the central issue several times, particularly in my Press statement. It was that we had to make up our minds what Ermolenko really wanted. I happened to be the person who had to make a decision. There were a lot of other people genuinely interested and a lot who were not genuinely interested. The central issue was that Ermolenko had made 2 decisions and we had to decide which one he really meant. That, of course, took a little time. That is why the matter could not be cleaned up as quickly as it might have been for the benefit of everyone concerned. I certainly could not have been clear in my mind until we found out what the situation was. When the situation was quite clear and, as I pointed out in my Press statement, he had not varied from his statement on the Monday morning, after originally saying on the Sunday night that he wanted to stay, and had repeated what he said on Monday to the people I named and finally on television- there was no alternative left but to see that he was taken out of Australia. The situation then was that we, or more correctly some people, were illegally trying to stop what is the normal arrangement for people travelling into and out of a country. The young man had come here on a cultural exchange, and he expressed his wish to go home and wanted to go home but people were stopping him. Under those circumstances there was only one thing for the Government to do and that was to govern and to get him out of the country and back to where on several occasions he had expressed a wish to go. That is what I did. 
-I have answered that question already and I am not going to table the record of interview. As I have said several times, I am not going to have a situation where interdepartmental reports are going to be tabled every time the Opposition wants them tabled. Such a situation would be ridiculous. 
-No. The Government is not prejudging the situation in relation to the Cape Verde Islands. It believes that this is a matter to be worked out by Portugal in the future in conformity with the United Nations resolution on self-determination and independence. On 26 August Portugal assigned total independence to Guinea Bissau. The documents contained a specific clause to the effect that the Cape Verde Islands position would be looked after at a later date in accordance with the principles of the United Nations. In recognising that fact and also in supporting Guinea Bissau's admission to the United Nations the Government is not prejudging the issue. 
-I received a letter from  Mr Tonkin.  This was the first time I knew that he had any worries about the subject. He wrote to me and I replied to him a few days ago. He said in the letter that he wanted to explain an article which had appeared. He seemed aggrieved in that he had been misrepresented very badly. Regarding his conversation with Ermolenko, he made the point that one can never be absolutely certain when talking to anyone, particularly under these circumstances, whether what the person is saying is completely genuine. However, there is no doubt that at the time  Mr Tonkin  spoke to me, and also to the officers of my Department, he told me quite unequivocally that Ermolenko had said that he wanted to return. He was quite certain that this was what Ermolenko genuinely wanted.  Mr Tonkin  says that when one is talking to anybody it is difficult to know exactly what that person is thinking. Of course, as I have mentioned in my statement, this was one, and only one, of the pieces of evidence I took into consideration in making my decision. 
It is suggested that  Mr Tonkin  said to me: 'I hear that you will be using RAAF aircraft'. I do not remember the words exactly- either he raised the matter or I raised it- but at that stage I had no such intention and I was not going to be hurried. Had I wanted to hurry I could have sent Ermolenko out on the Monday night. The whole purpose of giving Ermolenko time was to make clear to myself and to other people who were interested that he was not going to suffer a relapse and go back to his original idea. At that stage, as I told  Mr Tonkin  in my letter, I had no intention whatever of hurrying this matter or of sending Ermolenko out of Australia. On the Thursday morning, although I had positioned the plane on the Wednesday night, I still had not given any instructions that the plane was to be used. I was informed in the morning, from the best industrial advice that I could get- I assure the Senate that it was the best in Western Australiathat there seemed to be no chance of the Federated Clerks Union lifting its ban. It seemed impossible to get the people involved in the Federated Clerks Union to hold a meeting. The secretary was refusing to hold a meeting. As honourable senators know, when a meeting finally was held they lifted the ban. At the time of the lifting of the ban I already had Ermolenko at Pearce, the RAAF aerodrome, and the others were about to leave or were on their way. I decided to go on with that course because, as honourable senators well know, the mobs that were gathering each night at the airport did constitute a danger. The airline people themselves were worried about the situation because of threats. At that stage, the matter having gone so far- I was clear in my mind that  Mr Ermolenko  should be allowed to leave Australia and that he was being unlawfully held up- I decided to use the RAAF aircraft. Had I been assured in the morning or the night before that the ban would be lifted the result might have been different. That is how far along the line I was at that stage and that is why I proceeded. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Information available to my Department indicates that Moroz is being held in Vladimir prison. 
and 3. He was convicted in 1970 on a charge of antiSovietism and sentenced to six years in prison, to be followed by three years in a labour camp and five years in exile. 
He is said to have been seriously maltreated in Vladimir prison and subjected to beatings from fellow prisoners. He is also said to have been in solitary confinement since January this year and to have begun a hunger strike on 1 June. The Soviet authorities deny, however, that he has been ill-treated or is in poor health and state that he has received proper medical facilities. 
The Soviet Embassy in Canberra has been informed by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the concern felt in Australia about the Moroz case. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Traffic Section of the Department of the Capital Territory did conduct a survey but it was limited to field studies to obtain data to be utilised to measure the alcohol involvement of Australian Capital Territory drivers. Analysis of the data is almost completed and a final report will be submitted to me soon. The report will be available for study by all people and organisations concerned with road safety. A preliminary report was forwarded to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety earlier this year. 
Canberra: Increase in Rates  (Question No.  105) 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The revaluation was to the levels applying as at 1 January 1973. It was made in accordance with accepted valuation principles and had regard to market values reflected in comparable sales at that time and changes of circumstances that had arisen since the last valuation. The average increase in general rates to be paid by owners of rateable property in Canberra in 1 974-7S is $ 1 3.86. 
The unimproved value of ratable land in Canberra at 30 April 1974 was $598.6m. At the rate of 1.2740 cents in the dollar this value will yield $7,626,024 in 1974-75. This is $652,269 more than the yield would have been at the old value and rate from the identical land. 
The percentage increase in total rates resulting from revaluation of land and a reduced rate in the dollar in 1974-75 is 9.35 percent. 
The current practice is to revalue each 3 years. It is intended this practice will be continued and the next revaluation will then be to levels prevailing at 1 January 1976. It is expected the values will then be introduced for the rating year commencing 1 July 1977. 
Increases in annual rate charges do not necessarily automatically result from increased unimproved values. The level of rates payable each year is determined by the amount of revenue required to meet the estimated cost of municipal services. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government is not at present giving financial or other assistance to any child care organisation in Vietnam. 
Customarily, assistance provided under Australia's aid program is made in response to specific requests from the recipient Government. In South Vietnam, Australia's aid is predominantly infrastructural, reflecting the wishes of the Government of South Vietnam that we concentrate in this area where Australia has specific expertise and which also accords with their most urgent needs and priorities. 
Although the Government of South Vietnam has not specifically requested assistance for institutions in South Vietnam in which children of mixed parentage reside, the. Australian Government has pledged $A250,000 to UNICEF (disbursed in 1973-74 and 1974-75) for its Indo-China aid operation including its welfare programs for Vietnamese mothers and children disadvantaged by the war. Consideration is also being given to further contributions in this area. 
The Australian Adoptive Families Association has recently made a submission to the Government, seeking financial assistance for a centre it has established in Saigon, where care and treatment is given to orphans awaiting adoption. This submission is at present under consideration. In addition, the Australian Government convened a Conference, on 24 and 25 July, between officials of Australian and State government instrumentalities, in an endeavour to find any ways of improving the present protracted arrangements for Australians to adopt such orphans. This conference has produced some suggestions, which will require consideration not only by Australian Government Ministers but also by State Ministers. I shall be happy to arrange for the honourable senator to be informed as soon as decisions on these matters are taken. 
Before I deal with the substance of the motion I will try to deal with some of the untruths that  Senator Greenwood  has used. I certainly cannot go through all of them because if I tried to do that the whole case would be all over the place. The last one was the allegation that we were seeking to join the Council of the Non-Aligned Nations. What I have said is that we should have observers at meetings of the non-aligned nations, as we have at meetings of the Andean Pact countries, the Organisation of African Unity, the Organisation of American States and so on. As a matter of fact, Australia has been an observer at meetings of non-aligned countries only once, and that was under a Liberal government. At the original meeting held at Bandung that great humanitarian party sent  Mr Shann,  who is at present our ambassador in Peking and who at that time was in Djakarta, to the meeting. The only Australian Government that has ever been represented at such a meeting was a Liberal government. I seek to do the same thing; that is all I seek to do. 

 - Mr Shann is in Tokyo, not Peking. I thank the honourable senator for the correction.  Senator Greenwood  said some amazing things about the part played by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  in the Ermolenko affair.  Mr Barnard  did not even know that the plane had gone. I never discussed it with him, because he was not in Canberra. The honourable senator says that  Mr Barnard  was holding out all the time and that suddenly, at the last moment,  Mr Barnard  caved in and gave way to our wishes. He said that  Mr Whitlam  had ordered that the plane should be standing by. What a lot of rot. There is not one ounce of truth in this. The honourable senator said that pressure was put on  Mr Whitlam  because of his planned trip to Moscow. Goodness me! 
-I told the Senate before that  Mr Whitlam  gave me the authority, which is his right.  Mr Whitlam  did not have anything else to do with this. I discussed it with him when I rang up and said: 'Can I have a plane? I want to position it in Perth and maybe it will have to go overseas tomorrow'. That is the only conversation I had with  Mr Whitlam  about it. Why go on with all these sorts of things? These are just complete untruths. There is just nothing in them. 
-That may be, but at least I will stick to the truth- something which so far has not been done. 
Yes, I am suggeting that. I am telling the Senate exactly where  Senator Greenwood  did not stick to the truth. There is just nothing at all in some of his statements. He talks about the courts deciding the wishes of  Mr Ermolenko.  On the Thursday  Mr Ermolenko  was subpoenaed to appear before the Supreme Court in relation to proceedings then before that Court. The subpoena was never served on  Mr Ermolenko.  All legal proceedings relating to the case were dismissed by the Supreme Court. If the honourable senator thinks that I was in some way defying the Court- this is the thing that he says is so important- why has the Court not dealt with me? The honourable senator is slinging off at me about the way he says I treated the Court, but is he not degrading the West Australian Court by saying these things? If the Court thought that I had been in contempt of it in any way it would have hauled me before it. But, of course, it has not done so. There has not been one word about it. Some of the actions that were before the Court were withdrawn and some were thrown out by the Court. Because I have watched the pattern all through I know very well that honourable senators opposite do not want me to deal with the substance of the matter. They want to get me off on to all the side tracks in the world. I watched that pattern during the week we were debating this matter. 

 Mr President, I have been berated by  Senator Greenwood  for refusing to table officers' reports. In all calmness I ask you to consider a situation where an opposition, a government or anybody could say: 'Look, we want that officers' report to this Minister to be tabled'. We would have a completely impossible situation. This would inhibit officers. When they report to a Minister they know that that report is confidential and that it will not see the light of day in the Press. If we get to a situation where, every time an officer has to write a report he has it in the back of his mind that that report may finish up in the Press, we will destroy the objectivity of that officer. 
Honourable senators opposite are the great Nixon people. We were never defending him. They were always putting on an act about him. I do not think they should mention tapes around here because it might not help their side. 
Yes, it will. I have never used a tape in my life and I never will. 
-The transcript of what? 
I have just explained to the honourable senator that no Minister could do that. Ministers of the present opposition parties when they were in government would never do that. It will destroy the whole situation if we say to officers: 'Give me a report on this, but it might finish up in the Press '. What sort of a situation is that? If honourable senators do not mind I will go back to the point of the whole matter. Regarding the conversation with  Mr Ermolenko  at the Immigration Office- I do not remember being specifically asked about this- I now say, because it is no secret, that at that point Ermolenko said that he wanted to return home. 
It was later on that he said that he did not. The other completely incorrect statement which  Senator Greenwood  made was that from the time that  Mr Ermolenko  went into the hotel he was not out of the presence of Russians. That is not true. We talked to the Russians and put it to them that it was to their own benefit and to the benefit of all of us that they withdraw their officers while talks took place with various people. From then on a Russian was never present. Then  Senator Greenwood  went on to make an amazing sort of analogy. He said that in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics people are held prisoner. He thinks that that is wrong and I agree that it is wrong. One of the most distressing things we have today is political prisoners in these countries. This matter is raised from time to time. It is a most distressing thing. It is wrong and it would be equally wrong if we were to imprison Ermolenko in this country and prevent him from leaving. 
Let us have a look at the motion before us. Dealing with the Ermolenko case it talks about the denial of human rights. I draw everybody's attention to the fact that at no stage have any of the critics in this matter examined what the alternatives would be if an Australian in Russia or in any other country were subjected to what Ermolenko was subjected to in this country. Nobody has adverted to that because the moment he does the whole of the criticism is destroyed. What is the alternative? The proposition which was being put and which I tried to bring about was to get  Mr Ermolenko  to leave with the Reverend Johnson for 24 hours. I think that was legitimate. It was assumed that  Mr Johnson  had been a friend. He had stayed there that night. I think he had accompanied Ermolenko to the aircraft on the first night, although I am not sure. The point is that Ermolenko refused to do this. Everybody kept saying to Ermolenko: 'What do you want to do?' He said: 'I want to go home. I do not want to go and stay with the Reverend Johnson.' What a ludicrous situation we would have been in if we had said to the police force: Go in and get him. Use force and drag him out. Ermolenko, never mind what you think. We can read your mind better than you can. You are not going to leave this country.' Alternatively we could have said: 'We are taking you away.' That would be an assault on a person. That would be imprisoning a person. What a ludicrous sort of situation that would be. Do we say to this person: Do you want to do something?' He says: 'No'. We say: 'Oh, yes you are; we know better than you do. We will put the police on to you'. At all stages I refused to authorise the use of force. I wish that I had been assured that  Mr Garland  and those people who were putting on such a shindig out at the airport each night were not going to use force, otherwise the decision might have been different. 
The Reverend Johnson's name has been mentioned many times in relation to this matter. I notice that when  Mr Garland  gave notice of a motion in the other place on 23 August 1974 he mentioned his name on at least 2 occasions. In giving notice of that motion he mentioned the Reverend Johnson, Reverend Borthwick and  Mr Badger,  and in brackets he put: 'who were and are objective and truthful persons'. I do not know why he put that. Nobody has ever challenged it. I certainly have not. As I have said many times, I certainly believe that these 3 gentlemen, as well as many other gentlemen, some of them sitting opposite me here today, were genuinely worried about this situation. They agonised with me to see that Australia did the right thing in relation to this matter. I appreciated that. But as I said in the first debate on this matter, I have profound contempt for those other people who jumped on the bandwagon, tried to get the limelight and gave no consideration at all to the human rights of the 1 8-year-old Georgi Ermolenko. I have read out the way that  Mr Garland  describes the Reverend Johnson and I agree with him. 
It may be interesting if I quote to you,  Mr President,  what the Reverend Johnson said a couple of nights ago when appearing on a television interview in Perth: 
The more I think about it, the less I'm inclined to see any arch-villains in the piece. I think that we are all the victims of circumstances to a large extent and I have no complaints now with the way the Government eventually handled it. 
I think it would be just as wrong for us to have kept him here against his expressed will, as it would have been for the Russians to have escorted him out of the country before he had an opportunity at least of speaking with his friends again, but as it turned out, I think that his expressed wishes at that time had to be expressed and it would have been quite wrong for us to have continued to try to keep him here. 
I trust that  Mr Garland  still thinks that he is a truthful and honest man. I have never doubted this even at times when it seemed that he was certainly not agreeing with the actions that I was taking. 
The next point is that this rather extravagantly worded motion moved by the Opposition in the Senate asks: 'Is there a doubt that exists?' That was the whole crux of the matter. Firstly, this young man twice said that he wanted to stay in Australia. He said this once at the airport and once to the immigration officer next day. Let me quote to honourable senators, just to remind them, what I said in a statement at the time. In a Press interview and in a statement which was distributed as widely as possible I believe that I gave quite openly and frankly the reasons why I came to the conclusions which I reached. I will quote this paragraph: 
At this stage my concern, as that of many other Australians, became one of ascertaining that this change of mind was genuine and was not made under duress. Accordingly, with the co-operation of the Soviet Embassy, Georgi was interviewed a number of times and on successive days without any other Russian present- first, by the representative of the Foreign Affairs Department and the Chief Immigration Officer in Perth, then by  Mr Gilchrist,  the Head of the Legal Division of my Department whom I sent from Canberra expressly for the purpose, then by  Mr Cowles,  the representative of the Transport Workers Union,  Mr Bluck  of the Musicians Union and  Mr Michael  Edgley, the well-known West Australian businessman, who speaks Russian well, then by  Mr Tonkin,  the former Labor Premier of Western Australia, whom I had asked to intervene, and  Mr Harding  of the Federated Clerks Union and finally at length by a number of journalists on television yesterday evening. 
I actually left out 2 names, those of  Mr Grant  of the Air Transport Officers Federation and  Mr Jim  Coleman, the Secretary of the Trades and Labor Council in Perth. I did not make arrangements for those people to see  Mr Ermolenko.  The only people for whom I made arrangements to speak to Ermolenko were  Mr Tonkin  and officers of my own Department. Of course, I knew the Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union to be completely hostile. I believe that he was completely unreasonable in the attitudes that he was taking. Nevertheless I asked him to. go along with  Mr Tonkin.  There is no evidence to the contrary on that aspect. 
Honourable senators might recall that in the opening debate here I said that it would not matter whether Georgi Ermolenko swore on a stack of bibles that he wanted to leave this country because there were certain people who had their minds made up and who were not going to be confused with the facts. They would not have changed their minds no matter what he did, and I knew that from the start. What I could have done was to send him out of the country early. I believed that I had to be certain of the position for a start in order to do the job that happened to fall into my lap. I had to be absolutely clear in my mind about what was going on and I wanted to convince as many genuine people in Australia as possible of what Ermolenko wanted to do. 
It is next said that we wanted 'to appease the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Let me tell the Senate that there is not one atom of truth in that. As a matter of practice I do not repeat, and obviously one cannot go around repeating, conversations which I have, often many in a week- some of them quite easy conversations and some not so easy- with representatives of other countries. We would lose our reputation completely if those representatives could not talk to their counterpart, the Foreign Minister, in a confidential way and say things to him which are not going to be bruited throughout the community. So I do not repeat such conversations. But I refused to panic as a lot of people from the other side were doing. I was not going to be panicked at the end of the week into keeping Ermolenko in Australia when I was certain he should go. 
I was not going to be panicked earlier in the week when he said that he wanted to be returned to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which, of course, is what the Russian Embassy asked me to do. There was nothing wrong with that request. I would make the same request if an Australian in some other part of the world said that he wanted to go home and I found that a lot of people with no legal rights at all were holding him up. But I took no notice of that request. All I will say is that if my interviews with the Charged 'Affaires,  Mr Victor  Smirnoff, amounted to appeasement I hope I never get into a confrontation with him. 
We talk about the rule of law. People on this side of the chamber will remember very well that, particularly when  Senator Greenwood  was in the Government, we used to get a lecture nightly about the rule of law and order, about how people were leading demonstrations and were sitting down in the streets of Melbourne. This was a shocking thing, it was said, and was taking the business out of the hands of Government. What happened on this occasion? We had a former Minister of the Crown in  Mr Garland  deliberately whipping up what were most ugly scenes at the Perth airport. On the afternoon I flew Ermolenko out we had a telephone call from the man second in charge of the the airport in Perth asking us what the situation was because he was frankly worried about the ugliness of the crowd there. Do not take my word or the word of the people advising me. That was the attitude of a man skilled in the art of airport handling. 
-The honourable senator should apply that to himself. He thinks that this one was good because the mob of louts was led by one of his side. 
-I say that a lot of them were a mob of louts. 
-I hope they are too, and I hope  Mr Garland  is. 
Some were decent, some were not.  Mr Garland  is the man who has been very proud of the part he played in it. While talking about veracity and misleading the Parliament, let me quote from- not comment on-  Mr Garland  's own words in a personal explanation on the other place. He said: 
The Minister elsewhere in the debate misrepresented me by saying that I got on the bandwagon. I make it clear that I heard about this matter at 1 p.m. on Sunday, 1 1 August, and took no public action whatever until 6 o'clock on the afternoon of Tuesday, 1 3 August, after I had been unable to get any assurance from members of the Minister's Department that they were satisfied that Ermolenko was speaking his mind freely. 

 Mr Garland's idea of what constitutes public action is indeed a quaint one. During an interview about the Ermolenko case which appeared in the Western Australian student newspaper Pelican' he described his following public actions during that time. Remember that he said that he took no action until 6 o 'clock on Tuesday, 13 August. But in the interview he says this: At 3.30 p.m. on Sunday he was talking to the police and customs officers. On Monday morning he rang  Mr Goodwin,  the chief immigration officer in Western Australia. On Monday afternoon he rang the police and rang the Perth Foreign Affairs office. At about 5.30 p.m. on Monday he went to the airport and 'tried to see everyone'. These apparently included the Secretary of the Clerks Union, about whom he said: 'who asked me if I was there on that business. When I said I was he said: "We are going to see what we can do to stop the plane." ' He saw the Qantas airport manager, continually demanded to see the chief Foreign Affairs officer in Perth and actually saw him several times. He intruded into the VIP room. He said: 'Anyway I went into the room with the purpose of being very difficult and I immediately started a row with Alexandrov Kabalevsky and another fellow who was in charge of the quintet. ' 
In a rare flash of honesty  Mr Garland  admitted that during this episode none of the ordinary courtesies were observed. He met  Mr Rob  Cowles of the Transport Workers' Union. At that stage  Mr Garland  was still at the airport and the time had advanced to about 8.15 p.m. He intruded into the VIP lounge again, in the company of Messrs Johnston, Badger and Grayden, some other Country Party members and the process servers to try to serve a writ on  Mr Alexandrov 
-This is the man who said that he had not taken any action on Sunday and Monday. 
-Do you not call that public action? Incidentally, I know that swearing on a stack of bibles will not get anywhere, but I noticed that when  Mr Ermolenko  was going back all sorts of forecasts were made about what would happen to him. I think that they ranged from the salt mines to not being allowed to play again, and that they would take his violin from him. As a matter of fact, he is playing tonight with his orchestra in West Berlin. 

 - Senator Sim, who has kept his head in this matter, unfortunately makes statements such as 'with KGB accompaniment'. Does he know that? Does he know these sorts of things? Let me repeat the situation at which we had to arrive. Here was a young man who had come here not as a KGB agent and not as a spy. He came here as part of a cultural happening at the university in Perth. After the events that we know so well he clearly indicated that he wished to return to his own country. He was being illegally detained- not by the Government, not by the police, but by a group of quite unauthorised people. However well meaning some of them might have been, they were nevertheless unauthorised and had no right to be interfering with the free coming and going of a person in and out of this country. 
The Government had to make a decision. As I said at the time, the Government was going to govern. It was not going to turn its back on this matter. What were the alternatives? The alternatives were to sit back and say: 'All right, we will let the mob take over. We will let them finally make up their minds when they are going to let this person go out of the country'. We could have acceded to what they wanted us to do, which was evidently to arrest Ermolenko and take him to a safe place of detention against the man's wishes. I do not know where that would be but I suppose that somebody would have had a bright idea about that. As I said earlier the situation would have been quite ludicrous. I repeat that it is all very well for Opposition senators to criticise me. In a very hectic week it is very easy to nitpick. I ask honourable senators opposite to sit back and ask: What was the alternative? I think any fairminded person- I concede again that there are some fairminded persons who have been involved in this matter- will come to the conclusion to which the Reverend Johnston came. He was certainly partisan in the early stages. When he analysed the situation he came back to the position that if a person wishes to leave this country, having come here as a guest to attend this cultural happening in Perth, we cannot stand by and let unauthorised persons say that that guest cannot leave this country. 
-Mr Tonkin was not hesitant. I answered that question yesterday.  Mr Tonkin  was quite unequivocal when he talked to me and when he talked to  Mr Gilchrist.  Later on in an interview with the 'Pelican' this question was put to him: 'How can you be sure?' He answered: 'Of course, you cannot be sure'. Of course, one cannot be sure when one is talking to anybody.  Mr Tonkin  was distressed by some of the reports in the 'Bulletin'. 
Another question asked of me was why I used a Royal Australian Air Force aeroplane. I will deal with that matter now. I am sure everybody would have liked the normal means of transport to be used. I certainly would have. In the early stages I never contemplated sending the Russian party on a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft because I thought that sanity would prevail. I thought that the Federated Clerks Union members would finally lift their ban but they did not until they were forced into having a rank and file meeting. The situation, as I said yesterday, was that by the Thursday morning, when I checked I believed there was no chance of  Mr Ermolenko  changing his mind yet again. I already had the evidence before me and I was quite clear in my own mind that  Mr Ermolenko  wanted to return to Russia. I then had to examine the question of how he was to return. I was told by the best industrial advice that I could get in Western Australia- it was the best anybody could get- that there appeared no chance whatever of the Clerks Union lifting its ban. On top of that, people were going to the airport and creating disturbances each night. When the rank and file meeting was finally held the decision to lift the ban was made by 20 votes to 8 votes. 

 Mr Ermolenko was already at the Pearce Airport which is about 35 or 40 miles out of Perth. 
He had gone on his own, with no other Russians, in a car with 2 Commonwealth policemen and  Mr Henne  who was the younger of the 2 officers of my Department who were in Perth. It would have been a golden opportunity for  Mr Ermolenko  if he had wanted to change his mind again to say so. They travelled through something of a country area. He did not state that he had changed his mind. The point is that at that stage I knew that  Mr Ermolenko  already was at the airport and the others in the Russian party were preparing to leave the Parmelia Hotel. I am not saying that his return was not possible at that time. I could, of course, have cancelled the plan. I could have brought  Mr Ermolenko  back. But quite frankly, I was getting a little tired of some of the 3-ringed circus performances that were going on. Secondly the airlines were getting worried. One did not have to be a great brain to work out that somebody was likely to throw a bomb scare and that the plane would be forced back to the airport for a search and all the other sorts of action would be necessary which have to be taken when irresponsible people give these warnings. 
That was the situation. In addition, only a few Commonwealth policemen were present. The reports I was receiving indicated that the scene was very ugly and I was not certain that violence would not erupt in a crowd like that. In all those circumstances I proceeded with the decision that I had made 2 hours before, which was to send  Mr Ermolenko  and the Russian party by RAAF aeroplane. I have no regrets about doing it. In the same circumstances, given the same facts that were before me, I would do exactly the same thing. 
I tura now to 2 points to which my critics will never advert. One is, what was the alternative? How were we to get Ermolenko alone, which would have been a very desirable thing? If we could have got him away for 1, 2 or 3 days, it would have been wonderful. But how were we to achieve this if he had stated it was not in accordance with his wishes? It could only have been done by the use of force. I was not prepared to use force. I was not going to risk violence and an assault on  Mr Ermolenko  by taking him away.  Mr President,  I would like an extension of time to complete my remarks. 
Motion (by  Senator Devitt)  agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Foreign Affairs completing his remarks. 
-I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and the Senate. I heard  Senator Carrick  interject and say that he wants to hear about Ermolenko. I put  Senator Carrick  in the category of those who would not believe what was sworn on a stack of bibles. There are none so blind as those who will not see. 1 want to come back to the question of the alternatives. Let members of the Opposition tell me what they would have done. 
-Leave it to the court! The court was never involved in the situation.  Senator Greenwood  told so many untruths in his speech that I completely disregard his evidence. What one would have had to do in the face of everything was to arrest Ermolenko, assault him and take him out. If there was a second alternative I would like to know about it. 
The other point I want to put to you,  Mr President,  and to the Senate is: What would happen in a reverse situation? What happens if an Australian violinist, athlete or somebody else is in another country? If it were Russia we would have  Senator Greenwood  jumping up and down. He has not had a good kick at the old com. tin for a long time and this has been his chance. What would happen in the case of an Australian in the United States of America, Great Britain, Canada or New Zealand- in any of those countries- who kept repeating, even telling the whole world on television, that he wanted to go back to Australia? Should I say: 'That is all right. Let the mob take him over. I do not think the New Zealanders are worried about it, but there is a crowd of people who do not want him to come back'? What would  Senator Greenwood  have said then? Could you imagine what  Senator Greenwood  would say, particularly if such a person were in Moscow, if I said that he should be left there and that it would be all right? 
I want to finish my remarks on the Ermolenko case by saying one thing: The decisions one makes in foreign affairs are very seldom clear cut because in this field one is dealing with other countries where there are different styles of approach, different attitudes and different types of government. It is very difficult to make clear cut decisions. I only wish that in the case of every decision I made I was as certain in my mind and as clear in my conscience as I am about the decisions I made in regard to Georgi Ermolenko. 
The question of the Balkans has been raised. 
-I thank the honourable senator for the correction. I must be getting a little tired. I have heard what is said about the situation of the Baltic states. The attack is levelled because this Government accorded de jure recognition to the incorporation of the 3 Baltic Republics into the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I find none of the arguments convincing because they are all reminiscent of the cold war era. This is the thing from which members of the Opposition cannot escape. If there is a basic difference between the Opposition and the Labor Government on this issue it is the fact that we recognise the realities of change. We no longer have a cold war as we knew it over a long period of time. Members of the Opposition still want to live in that era. It was a simple way to live because one could be on either one side or the other. Somebody says that I cannot argue that members of the Opposition are living in a cold war. I think this point is so patent that there is no need to argue it. 
-We were so busy catching up with the awful name the Opposition parties had left in world affairs that we had not got round to this. At long last a Minister for Foreign Affairs can go overseas and hold up his head. Members of this Government do not go around crawling to the big powers. We do not go round drawing lines and putting the goodies on one side and the baddies on the other. If there is something of which Opposition senators should not be proud it is their foreign policy over the years. They dragged Australia down and made it the laughing stock of the world. It has taken us nearly 2 years to drag Australia out of that situation. 
-I know that we have no right to have anything to do with communists or with coloured people! We will be a little different. The whole of the Opposition's arguments come from that cold war era. All the Opposition's arguments lack reality. Honourable senators opposite do not realise that times have changed. The policies of the former government were geared to a colonial era in which Australia dared take no action unless either Britain or the United States moved first. Inevitably Australia brought up the rear in any international developments. The policy of the present Government, however, is to throw off this colonial mentality. 
-My friend jibes at me about the recognition of China, but  Mr Peacock  says that he would not alter the situation and agrees with what this Government has done. I wish members of the Opposition would make up their minds about these things. The policy of the present Government is to throw off this colonial mentality. We wish to be more self-reliant. We are determined to throw off the shibboleths of the cold war era and to follow policies consistent with the demands of the present age and international realities. 
I wish to make it plain that the Australian Government is well aware of the cultural enrichment which members of the Baltic community have contributed to their country of adoption. The Government attaches importance to the cultural contribution of all our migrant communities. At the same time I must ask whether the Australian Government can allow a particular national group in the community to dictate the terms of Australian foreign policy, for that is the position which we seem to have reached. The Baltic communities are highly organised at the international level. They are obviously well organised in Australia. While in no sense denying them the right to express their views, I question whether they should be permitted to push the Government into adopting a policy which can be described only as ignoring the realities. 
What are these territories about which the Opposition is arguing so vociferously? What is their historical past? What is their present status? If we look into the past we find that, apart from the brief period between the wars, they have never had freedom as we know it. They were under Russian administration from 1745 until approximately between the First and Second World Wars. The U.S.S.R. has never considered that it was acquiring new territory. The Russian Government said that because it took over from the Csars in 1917 it was taking over territory which it already administered. That is the Russian argument, with which one may agree or disagree. What needs to be said is that the Soviet Union, because of the historical past, regards the 3 Baltic territories as just as much a part of its territory as Britain regards Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. 
Let me repeat what I said. Stop running away with yourself. I said that the Soviet Union regards it in that way. Do not panic about it, for goodness sake. 
I am not staying that that has made it respectable. I am quoting the facts, and this is what you will not face up to. You live in the dreamland of the old cold war era. 
If you do not wish me to state the facts, perhaps I had better sit down and you can get up, as  Senator Greenwood  has done, and go into all the imaginings of the world. The Baltic states have the same status as other Soviet republics such as Georgia and Moldavia which have at different times in the past also enjoyed full independence. We are talking of 3 republics which, apart from a brief period from 1920 to 1940, have in the case of Latvia and Estonia, never had independence, or in the case of Lithuania has been independent only for a brief period and then shared with another power. We are talking of 3 republics which still have their own name and a semi- autonomous status even if under a political system which is alien to ours. I stress again that it is the policy of this Government to recognise realities. If the Opposition is not prepared to accord de jure recognition, what status does it propose for the 3 republics? Does it seriously consider that their fully independent status is likely to be restored in the near future? People in Australia who hold that out are practising a cruel deception on people who have come from those countries. How long does the Opposition believe that we should go on refusing to acknowledge that the territories are a part of the U.S.S.R.? Surely it is time to face the facts. Honourable senators opposite talk about stealth and they say that we took the decision regarding the incorporation of these States in some sort of an underhanded way. But of course what we did was exactly what they did. We followed the precedent they established in regard to Goa. 
Honourable senators opposite did exactly the same thing. This is the fact. 
I am telling honourable senators opposite from where we got the precedent. Some say no, what honourable senators opposite are alleged to have done did not happen, and others say that it was a disgraceful episode. Maybe it was. The  f&lt;"~  '&lt; that this is what was done. Honourable senators opposite did not wait for a substantial period of time to elapse; they did it after  Vh  years. Strange to say, it was the same Ambassador,  Sir James  Plimsoll, who went and called formally on the Chief Minister and the  Speaker  of the Goa Legislative Assembly. The Indian Government was informed in advance that this visit would constitute de jure recognition of Indian sovereignty, even though no public announcement was made at the time. So it is completely wrong when we do it, but it is completely right when honourable senators opposite do it. What the Australian Government, in effect, has done is to recognise that the existing situation in regard to the 3 Baltic states is unlikely to change. De jure recognition does not mean, as many critics of the Government's decision seem to think, rightful incorporation. All along this Government has stressed that it does not approve of the way in which the incorporation took place, but the U.S.S.R. has effective control and is likely to remain in control. By the same token, if at some future time the Baltic states should again become independent, they could be recognised at that time. But in the present circumstances, 34 years after incorporation, the difference between de facto and de jure recognition is minimal. Australia has accorded de facto recognition for 20 years or so. Officials of the Australian Embassy in Moscow and some Australian parliamentarians visited the Baltic states when the previous Government was in office. To me this was a sneaky and dishonest sort of a way in which to handle the situation. The previous Government said that its Ambassador could not go into those areas in a top level way. But it sent somebody further down the line, not to call on any officials but to go in, look around and come out again. It was letting the Russians know that it accepted this sort of thing but that it was not going to say so. To me it was an underhand, sneaky sort of a way in which to handle the situation and it should not have been allowed to continue. That is one of the reasons why the decision was altered. 
It would be fair to say that the Baltic communities around the world know well that whenever they have had consular business affecting their interests in the 3 republics inquiries have invariably had to be taken up with the Soviet authorities if something was to be done. For example, in preparing legal documents Soviet description of the states as constituted republics has been used. The change in status will bring certain advantages. It will enable us to communicate direct with the 3 governments in the Baltic states on consular matters. It will be easier to offer any consular assistance to members of the 
Baltic communities in Australia if they experience difficulties when they return to their homelands. These are not insignificant advantages. The point has been made that de jure recognition will affect the status of the members of the Baltic community in Australia. I do not see how this is so. Almost all of them are Australian citizens. They travel to the U.S.S.R. as Australian citizens. A number of them have visited the U.S.S.R. in past years and their visits will in no way be affected by the change in recognition. Equally important is the fact that the Australian Ambassador in Moscow will now be able to visit the Baltic states and report on developments there. 
Much has been said by honourable senators opposite about the Soviet treatment of these states. Is it not essential that the Australian Ambassador should be able to visit the states and report to this Government on what he observes? I have been asked why the decision should have been taken now. I ask: Why should it not have been taken? As I said before, the Government intends to avoid situations where it follows other countries. It was under no pressure to take this decision. It seemed to me consistent with our policy of recognising realities, and I had my Department look into the question. Its recommendation was first seen early last month by the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. He accepted the recommendation but asked that no action be taken until I also had a chance to see it. What followed- I concurred fully- was that  Sir James  Plimsoll should visit the Baltic states and that the Latvian Consul's name should be withdrawn from the Australian Consular list. Both proposals were implemented.  Sir James  visited Estonia from 28 to 30 July. 
I have stressed that this was a matter on which the Australian Government made up its own mind without pressure from any quarter and taking into account the evident realities of the situation within the 3 republics. As is well known, not all Western governments are likely to follow the Australian action. We do not expect them to. Their interests do not necessarily coincide with our own. We do not seek to influence them in any way. Honourable senators opposite are saying that this action was taken because  Mr Whitlam  was going to visit Russia. I pointed out that New Zealand has done the same thing, although the late  Mr Kirk  did not have his mind made up to go there. 

 Mr President, why has this matter caused such a furore? Where were these great civil libertarians when Goa- a matter which they do not like to be mentioned- suffered exactly the same fate? I will tell you,  Mr President,  where they were and why they were not so vocal. The reason was that there were not in Australia any Goanese highly organised to put on pressure and to pump the lever of the machine which puts out the type of roneod letter that is coming to every member day after day. The Goanese never had that organisation. But, of course, to the great civil libertarians sitting opposite there was a difference because the Baltic people are white. The Goanese are black and therefore they would not mean nearly as much. 
It is not a disgusting thing. You attacked me over it. You attacked me when I went to black Africa. You criticised because of that. Why try to hide it? There is a third matter. You have been very generous,  Mr President,  in respect of the time for which you have allowed me to speak. I want briefly to advert to this matter. I will not read or speak from the notes that I have prepared because I think we have put enough time into this subject. But I just want to quote something I said recently in a speech that I made. 
The third aspect of the censure motion accuses me of promoting foreign policy alignments which will not serve Australia's national interests. I can think of no government which so traduced Australia's national interests as did the late and unlamented coalition government in which  Senator Greenwood  served. I believe, by contrast, that the Australian people wholeheartedly support the new independence which this Government has shown, and has pursued with success and with distinction. It must be only the dinosaurs opposite who continue to close their eyes to the fact that the cold war has ended. In so doing they seem to fly in the face of their own Party's policy as enunciated by  Mr Peacock,  their spokesman on foreign affairs, and which every responsible commentator seems to regard as an echo of the policies which the Labor Government has promoted and pioneered. 
The context in which Australia's foreign relations are conducted has, therefore, become much more complex and demanding. Merely in order to see the implications of this, I point out that the first duty of government is to recognise and comprehend the world as it actually is, not as we might conceive or wish it to be. That is a cardinal principle of the way this Government has approached foreign policy. Australia- if it is to serve the national interest in an effective manner -can no longer afford to impose on international events interpretations that are at variance with the facts. Until that basic principle, which I quoted in my speech in Adelaide in June, is accepted by the Opposition there will be that gulf between us. I repeat that, of all the portfolios that one can administer, Foreign Affairs is the one in which one must face up to realities. As I said, there is rarely a decision made in which one can be wholeheartedly behind it, because of the different temperaments that exist and the different approaches that are taken. Obviously, if a middle power is finally to make a contribution towards peace and the progress of people throughout the world, it faces up to the realities; it does not live in the cold war era as the Opposition is doing. 
-The question is in 2 parts. It refers to the political situation and to the aid situation. At the moment it is a bit difficult to make an assessment of the situation, but the military cease-fire certainly appears to be holding. The Greek Cypriot leader,  Mr Clerides,  and the Turkish Cypriot leader,  Mr Denktash,  have been having talks. The most hopeful sign is a report that they have agreed to release prisoners under the age of 18 years. This is always a hopeful sign. It is always one of the first steps to be taken. Of course, negotiations are continuing at the United Nations as well as in various capital cities throughout the world. 
In regard to the question of aid, as  Senator Mulvihill  well knows there has been a lot of interest in this matter. Initially we have given $50,000 to an appeal launched by the International Red Cross. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is opening an appeal. We do not know all the details of it, but we are very interested in it. Of course, the peacekeeping force which has been operating in Cyprus for 10 years is continuing and we make a donation of $100,000 a year to that body. Also, the offer to  Mr Kurt  Waldheim to supply troops to the peace-keeping force still stands. Of course, if that comes about it will be a fairly costly operation. Because a lot of goods have been gathered in Australia we have had representations as to how to get those goods to Cyprus and what aid we can give. It is a difficult operation because of the tremendous cost involved. But I have asked the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, to look at the possibility of Qantas Airways Ltd lifting the goods where it has space available. I had hoped that by now I would have received a reply to that request. I should have a reply to it very shortly. When I receive it, I will let the honourable senator know. 
-I will obtain the information and let the honourable senator know. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Australian delegation to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the SeaSecond Session. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Ambassador in Moscow was informed on 16 July. 
-There was a Press report on this matter towards the end of last month and because of it we are taking action. We are investigating the allegations of the recruitment of mercenaries in Australia by members of the Southern Rhodesian army. The AttorneyGeneral 's Department, the Commonwealth Police and the Department of Defence are involved in the investigations. If the allegations are substantiated they will constitute a serious violation of United Nations sanctions. If such activities were carried out in Australia this was done, of course, without the knowledge or consent of the Australian Government. The United Nations Sanctions Committee has been informed that the Australian Government is closely investigating the allegations. In the event of the allegations being proved the Australian Government will consider the possibility of prosecutions. 
This is a very old question and I will deal with it specifically in a moment. The reality of the situation is that the Government of the island of Taiwan is not the Government of China. As the honourable senator will recall, the previous Australian government always maintained that the 15 million people of Taiwan were the governing body for the total number of nearly 800 million Chinese. This Government reversed that situation. It is quite impossible to recognise both Chinas. Even if any country wanted to do that, neither Taiwan nor the People's Republic of China would accept it. The reality of the situation is that the Government of Taiwan is not the Government of China. In the early days I think I answered such questions every day for a few weeks. The arrangements are that people from Taiwan can come and go quite freely. But we will not allow officials claiming to represent the Government of Taiwan as the Government of China to take part in these negotiations. Therefore, we cannot permit the entry into Australia of persons from Taiwan representing the so-called state or Government of the Republic of China, or Taiwan. That is the situation. 
If the honourable senator is finished I will answer the question. The Government has no objection in principle to the attendance at the Pacific Area Travel Association Conference of private persons representing private travel interests in Taiwan. It believes that they would provide the means for effective participation of the tourist industry in Taiwan. So Taiwan can be represented if it likes to send some private people. The Government would like the PATA Conference to be held in Australia but it does not consider that PATA requirements can override its policy of avoiding official recognition of the authorities in Taiwan. 

 - Senator Grimes has put his finger on probably the most continually worrying area in the world as far as aid, flood relief and that type of thing are concerned. Again India is getting its turn. In this year's Budget we have allocated $40m as a fund from which to draw over the period. Of course it will not be limited to that amount as we do not know what is going to happen in the next 12 months. I do not think anybody in this chamber would regret it if we had to go above that amount. Already under our established food aid program 20,000 tonnes of wheat, valued at about $2. 5m, is going in aid. India will be very high on the list for aid from the $40m fund. I shall give honourable senators some idea of what the floods have done only in the last few weeks. To Bangladesh we sent a chartered aircraft to deliver 15 tonnes of skim milk powder, 1,000 rolls of plastic sheeting for temporary shelters and medicine worth $135,000. It was estimated at one stage that Bangladesh was 80 per cent under water. 
We have already air freighted to India 12 tonnes of skim milk powder plus vitamin tablets valued at about $25,000. We have sent to Burma anti-cholera vaccine and antibiotics valued at $25,000. They were sent through the Australian Red Cross. To the Philippines we have sent a cash grant of $10,000. I comment that this aid has been supplied in collaboration with the governments concerned. Reading through that list the question strikes me: 'Why would we be sending antibiotics to one place and not to another?' The answer is that that is what those countries want. In fact, Bangladesh is a large producer of antibotics and similar goods. We give a country what it wants if we can possibly obtain it at the time. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has maintained contact for a number of years with the Governments of the United States, Britain and Canada on this question, and consultations took place with these governments before the Australian Government took its recent decision on this matter. There was also consultation with the New Zealand Government. 
I do not know what the situation is with United Nations refugees. I will make inquiries about it. The whole humanitarian situation in Cyprus is a serious one and will not be finally settled until we can get a political settlement of the problems that exist there at the moment. I will make inquiries and find out what I can for the honourable senator. 
In answering a similar question this morning the Prime Minister said that he had not given  Mr Renouf  any instructions in relation to this matter and that it was natural on a trip such as that undertaken by the Prime Minister that  Mr Renouf,  as well as the Prime Minister and others, would talk to the Press about many things. I certainly did not give any briefing; I do not know anything about it. In the general briefings that were given to me while I was away I was made aware of certain reports. I was asked this question yesterday at a Press conference which I gave. I answered there that this seemed to be an incident which had blown up between the two men, that the waters had been muddied pretty badly by people pursuing this matter and I certainly did not intend to muddy them any more. I said further that some disagreement had blown up between two intelligent people. I think it is best if the matter is left there. I do not think any purpose can be served by blowing up an incident into all sorts of things. I am quite certain that this matter will be worked out between the two gentlemen concerned. 
-I have said in 2 places already what the situation is. I do not think anything is to be gained by trying to exacerbate this situation. I am certainly not going to exacerbate it in any way. As to whether or not there was an apology promised I do not know. I think it is a matter for the 2 gentlemen concerned. There is a condemnation by  Senator Greenwood  without his knowing, I suggest, a lot about it that this action was reprehensible. I think the matter is better left where it is and, as I said to  Senator Withers,  for these 2 gentlemen to work out between themselves. 
Yes, such discussions have taken place. I discussed the matter with several members of the Indonesian Government -in particular with the Foreign Minister and Minister for Defence- when I was there earlier in the year. The Prime Minister mentioned this matter, I think, on his visit prior to my being there, and again the other day. We have pointed out to the Indonesian Government, as we have pointed out to other countries which have numbers of prisoners, that although this is a matter for their internal administration nevertheless it is a factor in their relationships with us, particularly as from time to time some of their detainees are fairly well known in Australia. The main detainee in Indonesia, of course, was Buyung Nasution who was well known in law circles in Australia. We have pointed this out to the Indonesian Government. 
The Indonesian Government mentioned to the Prime Minister that people from Australia would be welcome to attend trials of political prisoners to see that they were carried out in a proper manner. I cannot answer the honorable senator's question as to what effect the discussions may have had. I do not know what effect we have on the minds of these people. It is not only the Indonesians who have prisoners. I hope that we have a very marked effect on them. It is a difficult situation because it is the internal business of the governments concerned. At the same time it disturbs a lot of people in Australia and throughout the world. I do not blame them for being disturbed about it. Another thing the Australian Government tries to do is to talk to other governments from time to time about any influence they might have with governments that have prisoners. This matter has been mentioned on several occasions to the Indonesian Government 
-I noticed that when I used the word 'madhouse' in relation to the United Nations it was taken out of context. I have often heard that term used in relation to this place, too. The advantage which we have here over the United Nations is that we have a time limit on the length of our speeches, which it does not have. Yesterday I was asked a couple of questions about this matter. One question was in relation to my personal reaction. I said that the job is quite a grind- and it is. Today it is vastly different to be  President  of the United Nations, which has 138 members. There is much more activity throughout the world than there was in the old days. Watching  Mr Bouteflika  while I was there, and talking to him, I realised that the job is not an easy one. In relation to the question about the United Nations being a madhouse- 
-He is doing well. Among the many people with whom I had conversations was  Senator Wright.  He is enjoying the place very much. Of course, the United Nations is a madhouse to the extent that one rushes from one appointment to another. Many Foreign Ministers are there in the early stages of a debate and they want to see you and you want to see them. It is a bit like this place when honourable senators go from one committee meeting to other committee meetings. That is the sense in which I used the term. 
As for the reasons for my name happening to be the Australian name which has been submitted, the United Nations over the last 12 or 14 years, as it has become bigger, has seen the establishment of groups. We belong to the group called the Western European and Others. I ask honourable senators not to ask me where the tide comes from. That is what it is. It consists of 22 countries. It is the turn of our group to submit a name for the presidency to the General Assembly. I believed that in the early stages Australia should submit a name, along with the others. At the moment 3 nominations have been submitted. There could well be others. Theoretically there could be nominations from all 22 countries. This will be worked out some time next year. Generally a consensus is arrived at among the various countries in the group and one name goes forward. I believe that Australia should put its name in and that this name should be considered with the other names when the time arrived. 
-Anything the Prime Minister said in his address to the United Nations would certainly be known to the Chinese as well as to anybody else. I have seen a newspaper report of what  Dr Cairns  is alleged to have said. I checked on this matter before I came into the chamber. We still have not received an official cable in relation to it. So I do not know the truth or otherwise of the allegation. 
-As I remember it the question was: Did I study the statement carefully? At the time I did. I do not see any great change between what was said in 1973 and what the honourable senator is saying now. I do not know what is in his mind. The general thrust of these policies is a correct one. I hope it is one that will be followed for quite a long time to come. I think it is quite right to say that we ought to be getting for our minerals et cetera roughly the world price. I do not think we should allow people to gouge out our minerals and sell them at whatever price they like just for short term gain. On the other hand it is necessary for our trading partners, particularly Japan which is completely dependent on imports, that we reach a situation where they can be assured of continuing supplies. They must understand, as well as other countries, that they have to pay a fair price. 
Also we have to look at the long-term situation of those minerals which we may not have in abundance. There should be some sort of conservation policy. We ought to be moving wherever we can towards processing some of these ourselves. To me that is an unexceptional policy and it is one towards which we have been working . It is one in which I do not see any change. I think this policy has been flowing on. It is not an easy situation because of rapid development and because of the new approaches that have had to be made in the fields of mining and energy. Honourable senators will have seen statements recently in which  Mr Connor  talked of handling uranium in our own country. I think this is a good policy and it is one which is being pursued. But it is one which, when we are dealing with other countries, is naturally rather slow to implement. 
-I hope that, upon whatever other ground  Senator Greenwood  may have raised that point of order, he is not resting his case upon precedent. I do not know what the Liberal Party decided. I was out of the country when the Liberal Party held its conference, or whatever it is called. So I am not aware of what was decided. I have just attended the Council meeting of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. The situation in relation to SEATO is that all countries that are still members of it are quite happy with the arrangements that were floated last year by New Zealand and Australia. Those arrangements recognise that there is a vastly different situation existing now compared to the time when SEATO was set up. It was really set up for the containment of the People's Republic of China. That situation has disappeared. I could not imagine SEATO being established in today's new circumstances. What has happened is that largely the military side has been taken out of SEATO. The countries within SEATO still work very happily together. All the member countries in the region- the Asian countries- are very happy with the way the organisation is proceeding, as are the non-regional countries such as the United States of America, Great Britain, New Zealand and Australia. 
-I will refer  Senator Missen  's question to the Special Minister of State and obtain an answer for him. 
I read a leading article which made some reference to this matter. I thought it was quite fair because it went on to say that here was a situation with which the United Nations was confronted and if, in some way, it could bring about some sort of resolution of the Palestinian problem that would be a plus. Let me give the full story on this matter. A resolution which provided for the Palestine Liberation Organisation to participate as 'the representatives of the Palestinian people' in plenary session during the General Assembly's deliberations on the question of Palestine was put to the vote on 14 October. The vote was overwhelmingly in favour of PLO participation. It was recorded as 105 for, 4 against and 20 abstentions. Australia was one of the abstainers. Israel, the United States of America, Bolivia and the Dominican Republic were the only countries which voted against the resolution. Australia's abstention was in the company of Belgium, Burma, Canada, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Laos, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg and some 10 others. New Zealand, Sweden, Norway, France, Italy and Ireland were among those countries which supported the resolution. 
In an explanation of vote, the Australian representative expressed doubts about departure from the established practice of keeping debates in plenary session to representatives of the member states of the United Nations. However, he stated that organisations and individuals having legitimate reasons for doing so should not be denied the opportunity of addressing the United Nations by invitation, but that these opportunities had traditionally been provided by the committees of the General Assembly. He added that if a representative of the PLO had addressed one of those committees he would have been listened to just as closely, whether or not he was speaking for the whole of the Palestinian Arab Liberation Movement and whatever views we may have about some of the methods of that Movement. In the same explanation our representative also stated that there can be no permanent and just settlement in the Middle East which takes account of all the provisions of Security Council resolution 242 until the Palestinians can be assured of fair treatment, permanent homes and secure hopes for the future. In conclusion our representative explained that Australia was also unable to support the resolution because we were not convinced that it would assist the delicate process of negotiation towards a lasting Middle East settlement. 
-I would very much like to give the facts. I have seen the article. It appeared on the front page of the newspaper to which  Senator Mulvihill  referred. I do not think it would be possible for the story to be more wrong since every one of the points it rnakes is quite false and is based on allegations which have no foundation whatever in truth. Let me take the allegations point by point. The first point is that I as Australia's Foreign Minister was the only Foreign Minister making a speech to the United Nations who did not refer to the Cyprus situation. I would like to quote from a copy of the address I gave as leader of the Australian delegation in the general debate in plenary session on 7 October. It is a little lengthy but because of the serious allegations that have been made,  Mr President,  I ask for your indulgence. I said: 
In the case of Cyprus it is again easier to state broad principles on which there would be general international agreement than to set out a position in detail. Indeed, those details, for example, whether there should be a federal form of government, and if so, with what provisions, we see as matters for negotiation and agreement between the representatives of the 2 communities. Governments that are parties to the I960 agreements and the Secretary-General and his representatives may be able to assist in this process, yet the ultimate choice must be for the communities to agree upon. It is not for outsiders to say what the people of Cyprus should choose. The Australian Government does say unequivocally that it fully supports the continued independence of Cyprus and that the solution of its problems must be reached without outside force. 
One immediate and pressing humanitarian problem is that of the many thousands of refugees displaced by the violent events of the past 2 months. Australia has joined with other countries in making a special monetary contribution to assist them, but the real refugee problem is clearly a much deeper one than immediate relief and is entangled with the question of a political solution. For over a decade Australia has also contributed and paid for a contingent of police to the United Nations force in Cyprus. This we will continue to provide along with the additional financial contributions we have also been making each year to the United Nations efforts in Cyprus. 
The second point which the article makes is that the Greek Government was astounded by our supposed lack of concern and made a protest to the Australian Government. It is absolutely untrue that any protest was made to us over this issue since the Greek Government is much better informed of the facts of the matter than the particular newspaper which published the article to which  Senator Mulvihill  referred. As to the attitude of the Greek Government, in New York I spent more time with  Mr Mavros.  the Greek Foreign Minister, than with the Foreign Minister of any other country. I had 2 long conversations with  Mr Mavros  and was a guest of his at dinner. 
I can assure the Senate that the Greek Government has no complaint to make, no concern to express and no quarrel at all with Australia 's policy on the matter of Cyprus. My relations with  Mr Mavros  were excellent and he appreciatedhe stated this- the concern Australia had shown over the Cyprus question. I should also inform  Senator Mulvihill  that my office has written to the 'New Country' newspaper seeking a retraction of the item in question which I cannot help but think was based on information supplied by people who would seek to bring discredit on the very responsible and very concerned role which Australia is playing in Cyprus as a member of the Security Council, through our peacekeeping force in Cyprus and through our humanitarian assistance to refugees in Cyprus. I am glad that the Greek Government has given no currency to this mischievous story. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act relating to the provision by Australia of aid for developing countries. 
-I will have to get the Minister for Health on to this problem of influenza. I take it that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is talking about the grants that fall within the responsibility of the Australian Grants Commission? 
-A11 right. There is a lot of detail involved in the question. I am aware that there is some dissatisfaction. I will refer the question to the Minister and get a reply for the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No; the Department of Foreign Affairs has not purchased a villa, or any other residential accommodation in Florence. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Grants Commission Act, 1973 I present for the information of honourable senators the forty-first report 1974 by the Grants Commission on special assistance for States. 
-Yes, I will ask my colleague. 
-I will refer the question to the Special Minister of State and obtain a reply for the honourable senator. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Australia abstained on Resolution 3068 (XXVIII) which was passed by the United Nations General Assembly on 30 November 1973 and which adopted and opened for signature and ratification the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid. 
Australia abstained because, notwithstanding its abhorrence of apartheid, which it has demonstrated by word and deed on numerous occasions, it had difficulties with the machinery provisions of the Convention, namely that States Parties to the Convention would have to create national criminal jurisdiction to try persons charged extraterritorially with crimes under a broad definition of apartheid. Twenty-five other countries abstained, and four opposed the Resolution, for similar reasons. 
The Australian Government will continue to be guided by the considerations mentioned in 2 above. 
The Minister for Services and Property has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, the Minister for Services and Property made the statement referred to by the honourable senator. This statement concerning the electoral effect of the proposed change to optional preferential voting for the Senate was based on verbal advice given to the Minister by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
Department of Foreign Affairs: Residential Accommodation in Florence, Italy  (Question No. 236) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I would refer the honourable senator to pages 27 to 34 of the speech on the Australian Defence Estimates 1974-75 tabled in the House of Representatives by my colleague, the Minister for Defence, on Thursday, 24 October. 
-An African draft resolution calling for the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations has been lodged with the United Nations Secretariat in New York for consideration by the Security Council. The Australian Government has instructed its delegation to the United Nations to vote in the Security Council in favour of this step. In making this decision the Government has taken into consideration the fact that South Africa has, for 25 years, by its policy of apartheid, persistently violated the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Its has refused to comply with United Nations resolutions, including those relating to Namibia, and has openly assisted the rebel Smith regime in Southern Rhodesia in violation of the pertinent resolutions of the Security Council. In these circumstances the Government decided that, notwithstanding the seriousness of this step and the understandable reservations which it feels about endorsing it, on balance the Australian delegation should support this move because of the moral considerations involved, as we perceive them. The decision by the Government to support a resolution calling for the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations was taken in the context of the Security Council consideration of the question. 
Tonight  Senator Webster  raised a matter in relation to the answer which I gave this morning about a vote which will come up in the Security Council, probably tomorrow, in relation to South Africa.  Senator Webster  quoted from several newspapers which suited him. He did not quote from other newspapers which had taken rather a different line. He took the South African case completely and placed it before us. He even quoted from  Mr Botha's  statement in the Security Council. He criticised Australia's attitude towards Aborigines. This seemed to be the one reason he gave why we should not vote the way I have instructed  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre to vote at the Security Council. He further criticised me because I did not criticise Uganda and such other countries. It seemed to me that in some way- I did not quite follow it- this was related to the action I am about to take at the Security Council. The fact is that I do not go around criticising every other country, because that is hardly a way to improve relationships. 
It is quite right that any country can criticise another country. Other countries can criticise us. They can find plenty to criticise, particularly on the Aboriginal question. The fact is that because we are on the Security Council and because we will be there for another 2 months we have had placed before us fairly and squarely by the General Assembly the question of South Africa. It was referred to the Security Council overwhelmingly by the General Assembly. We have to make up our minds how we will vote on this matter. There could be a debate which would go on forever. But what is the correct thing to do? One of the arguments which come forward is that we may harden South Africa in its attitudes and that this would make apartheid even worse than it is today, if this is possible; South Africa would not do any of those things which we want it to do. That is one angle that can be taken. That is one argument which I have seen advanced. That is one argument which some of the people at the Security Council will advance. 
But when we sit down and analyse this matter, as we had to do, we found that there had been no movement in apartheid- not for one or two years, but for 25 years. South Africa has consistently defied the United Nations, the resolutions which it has passed, and the pressures which have been put on South Africa. One of the first reports which come in at the United Nations is the report of the Credentials Committee. Up until this year that Committee would make the recommendation that the United Nations accept South Africa and a group of nations would move that the credentials be accepted, with the exception of those of South Africa. This was always carried. Under a ruling which was referred to as the Hambro ruling- it was given by  Mr President  Hambro- the vote was to be taken as a condemnation of South African policies but it did not affect the right of participation in the Assembly. So this was done every year as a condemnation of South Africa. 
Because those sorts of moves were not getting anywhere, this year the procedure was reversed. When the report came from the Credentials Committee the recommendation was to exclude South Africa. A vote was taken on that and it was carried overwhelmingly. Another vote was taken which was to refer this matter to the General Assembly. That was carried by 125 for to one against- South Africa, of course- with 9 abstentions. So it was an overwhelming vote indeed which sent the matter to this body. We are faced with the position of what we are going to do about it. As I explained in answer to  Senator Webster  this morning, because of South Africa's persistency over 25 years, because there has been no movement towards what the United Nations has asked South Africa to do in relation to apartheid and because there has been no change in its policy, I believe that now there is only one thing for Australia to do. Because of the stand we have taken, because of the stand which the previous Government took and because of the things we have said about racism, we believe it is time to vote for the expulsion of South Africa. One of the nations could use its power of veto. There is no indication at the moment whether that power of veto will be used. It is not true to say that anybody can vote with safety on this sort of matter knowing full well that South Africa will not be expelled. That is not certain at all. The African countries are pushing this matter and will take the main responsibility. Australia will take its responsibility because of the way we will vote. 
The honourable senator asked: Will expulsion make South Africa worse? Nobody really knows.  Senator Webster  has pointed out that Ambassador Botha said that South Africa will get rid of apartheid and there will be an improvement in sport. Does that not suggest the opposite? Does that not suggest that at long last, when it is put on the line, after 25 years of pious resolutions, when the matter is before the Security Council that one is starting to get some action from South Africa? There is no real movement in sport in South Africa because at the club level where sport starts, not necessarily at the international level, there is still segregation and discrimination.  Mr Vorster  made a speech which has been answered by  Mr Kenneth  Kaunda of Zambia in the last few days, but it is very late in the day. This matter could have been raised quite a long time ago. 
I come to the question of whether by excluding South Africa one will weaken the United Nations. That is one argument. On the other hand, how much more will one weaken the United Nations if South Africa defiantly and consistently over a quarter of a century has completely ignored the United Nations resolutions. One can argue both ways, but it seems to me that the correct thing is being done and that the pressure suggested by some of the newspapers which  Senator Webster  did not quote must be kept up so that at least these words which have come out only in the last few days while the Security Council has been meeting can be put into action. 
The question of Aborigines was raised. In fact it just about took over. 
Maybe it should have. 
-I am coming to that point, and I acknowledge that it was  Senator Webster's  point. The honourable senator acknowledged in turn that the reason that we should vote against South Africa is that we have not clean hands on the question of social discrimination. Of course we have not. The Minister said that. The attitude of Australian governments and the Australian people as regards Aborigines is vastly different to the attitudes in South Africa. A few years ago in Australia a referendum was supported by all parties and was carried overwhelmingly. The previous Government in its dying days was starting to step up its expenditure on Aborigines. Under this Government for the first time in our history we have a full time Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. That is the opposite to moving towards apartheid. Whatever faults we still have this Government is backed by a referendum of the people. Let me acknowledge that the previous Government was starting to move towards a greater expenditure on Aboriginal people. So it is the complete opposite to what is happening in South Africa. 
I disagree with  Senator Bonner  when he took up  Senator Webster's  attitude because I would have thought that if we had not condemned apartheid in South Africa we would have been condemned by the Aboriginal people. I would say that that would have been the attitude of the Aboriginal people. How can we in Australia say that we are trying to get rid of racial discrimination and that we believe we should not judge one another because of the colour of our skins, yet turn round and vote the other way when it conies to South Africa? I disagree with my friend  Senator Bonner.  I think that that Aboriginal attitude would be vastly different to what he said it is.  Senator Webster  said that I wrote a letter to all companies in Australia which have subsidiaries or brother organisations in South Africa. He said that this was a left wing move. I do not quite know how he works that out because all that this letter did was to say: 'Look, it is for everybody's benefit to be a good employer and these are some of the suggestions we can make. ' I found to my dismay that the United Kingdom and the United States of America had done it some dme before. So my motivation was hardly left wing because the United Kingdom and the United States had done a lot more than we had done. 
I think many irrelevances came into the debate. I do not think the Aboriginal question is relevant. We are doing the opposite to South Africa. We are passing laws and establishing departments to assist and uplift and to get away from racial discrimination. The opposite is being done in South Africa today and has been done persistently for 25 years. I do not think that the position is analogous at all. For years the previous Govement voted in the United Nations against apartheid. Now that Australia is a member of the Security Council surely it does not expect us to do less. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Delegation to the South Pacific Conference at Rarotonga is led by the Honourable W. L. Morrison, Minister for Science, and comprises  Mr J.  H. A. Hoyle, Assistant Secretary, Pacific Branch, Department of Foreign Affairs;  Mr M.  R. Casson, Australian Consul, Noumea; Miss 
McPherson, Head, South Pacific Section, Department of Foreign Affairs;  Mr C.  Woodland, Senior Projects Officer, Office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency;  Mr R.  J. Tyson, Second Secretary of the Australian High Commission, Wellington. There are two Australian Parliamentary Observers at the Conference, Senators C. G. Primmer and N. T. Bonner. 
None of the officials speaks any of the indigenous languages of the Islands. The languages of the Commission, however, are both English and French.  Mr Casson  is fluent in French.  Mr Hoyle  and Miss McPherson have a working knowledge of it and the other members of the delegation understand it. 

 Mr Hoyle and Miss McPherson studied Pacific Affairs for two years at the Canberra University College during their training as diplomatic cadets during the late 1940s. This course covered, inter alia, the Pacific Islands and PNG. Additionally,  Mr Hoyle  during his third year at the University of Sydney wrote a thesis on the history of race relations in Hawaii. 

 Mr Hoyle was Second Secretary in Wellington from 1956 to 1959 during which time he made an official tour of Fiji, Western Samoa and the Cook Islands. In 1972/73  Mr Hoyle  was Head of the South Pacific Section. Since 1 May 1973, he has been Assistant Secretary in charge of the Pacific Branch which covers both Papua New Guinea and the South Pacific. In January 1972 he became Australian Commissioner and in December 1973 Senior Australian Commissioner on the South Pacific Commission. In March 1974 he led the Australian Delegation at the Review Meeting on the South Pacific Commission held in Wellington from 5-8 March 1974. 

 Mr Casson worked in the Americas and South Pacific Sections from 1965 to 1967. In 1967 he accompanied a Parliamentary Mission to Fiji, Tonga, Western Samoa, American Samoa, the New Hebrides and New Caledonia.  Mr Casson  has, since October 1972, been Australian Consul, Noumea, and Alternate Australian Commissioner on the South Pacific Commission. 
Miss McPherson has been Head of the South Pacific Section since May this year. She is attending the Rarotonga meeting to familiarise herself with the region. 

 Mr Woodland has been engaged in aid work for the last six years and has been responsible for the South Pacific Aid Program since 1972. In May 1973 he participated in an aid mission to the New Hebrides and Fiji. In May 1974 he attended the Planning Committee of the South Pacific Commission and subsequently was a member of aid mission teams to Fiji, Tonga, Western Samoa and the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. 

 Mr Tyson has been Second Secretary in Wellington since March 1972. He attended the South Pacific Forum held at Rarotonga in March 1974 and accompanied the Australian High Commissioner, Dame Annabelle Rankin, to the same place in July 1974. 
Australian policy towards the South Pacific Conference was expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a statement tabled in the Senate on 26 September 1973, reporting on the 1 3th South Pacific Conference at Guam. 
International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid (Question No. 261) 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Australian Fire Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
This matter was raised at the Estimates Committee meeting. I said then that $ 1 50,000- not $ 1 50m, the figure I have seen some of the critics of the scheme using- will be used for non-military, humanitarian purposes. I repeated to the Committee what I said at the United Nations General Assembly last year. While we sympathise with the aims of the National Liberation Movement in southern Africa we ourselves stop short of endorsing the use of force to obtain its and indeed any other objectives. As to the allocation of funds, we still have not decided definitively, but we have firmed up our position quite a lot since I spoke to the Estimates Committee. The first thing is that we will allocate our aid through multi-lateral channels to projects that are jointly administered by United Nations agencies, liberation movements and host governments and which are sponsored by the Organisation for African Unity. These projects are designed to meet fundamental problems of re-settlement of refugees including malnutrition, lack of housing, and training- possibly to be provided in Australia. Examples of such possible projects are support for health clinics in southern Tanzania and in Zambia, assistance to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees - 
-I will repeat what I have said because I think that the honourable senator is a little off the beam. Examples of such possible projects are support for health clinics in southern Tanzania and in Zambia, assistance to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Council of Namibia for subsistence crop farming near Lusaka to accommodate refugees, assistance to United Nations agencies in the training of boys in agricultural and technical skills, and relief to refugees from southern Africa living in temporary settlements in Zambia. 
Of course I am reading the reply. Is there anything in the Standing Orders to stop me? Because of the very deliberate misrepresentation on this subject I have obtained written information. We will consult of course other countries such as West Germany, the Scandinavian countries and New Zealand, which are also giving aid to African liberation movements. When we receive the report from our Foreign Affairs man who is to visit Zambia to investigate the needs of refugees I will be able to inform the Senate of the precise allocation of this aid. I would like to take the opportunity to condemn in the strongest terms those people who have so stridently misrepresented the purposes of this assistance. There have been all sorts of lurid suggestions as to the types of non-humanitarian or indeed anti-humanitarian uses that this money might be put to. These suggestions testify to the powers of imagination and dishonesty of those who make them. Let me repeat that this aid is for humanitarian purposes and for no others, and indeed the Cabinet decision limits the purpose to just that. 

 -Mr President, I shall read the answer to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack: The Australian Government has seen an advanced draft copy of the report of the United Nations visiting mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and is presently giving the report detailed consideration. As the report has not yet been distributed officially, it would be premature to comment in detail on its findings, but the conclusions and recommendations of the report are in accordance with what we expected. When the report has been issued in its final form I shall ensure that a copy of it, together with a copy of the Government's comments on the report, are made available to honourable senators in the Parliamentary Library. 
-The Government recognises the desirability and need for changes in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, which will be directed towards ensuring for the people of the Islands higher standards of education, economic development and self-government. As has been stated in replies to questions on notice, the Government's intention is that the future political status of the Islands should be determined with due regard to the freely expressed wishes of the inhabitants and in keeping with the principles of the United Nations charter and the relevant United Nations resolutions. 
By way of interjection my friend  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack asked me why we invited the United Nations mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I do not think anybody can challenge the statement that this Government has stood very firmly by the rights of self-determination under the United Nations charter. We have encouraged that in other countries. I do not see how any government having done that could then stand by and in relation to a country which was under its jurisdiction say that we were not going to give self-determination to that country or that we were not going to open up for inspection by the United Nations anything that was under our jurisdiction. We have moved towards granting independence in New Guinea. If there were such groups in any other area I would do the same thing. How can we go about arguing and saying that other people should have selfdetermination but that people who have a different coloured skin and who are working for somebody else ought not to have the same rights and privileges as everybody else? How can we then turn round and deny to the United Nations and the whole world the opportunity to examine the administration by the Australian Government? 
It seems clear from the reports that I have received that  Mr BjelkePetersen's  proposed treaties commission is a quite futile undertaking. He could easily have saved the Queensland taxpayers an estimated half a million dollars a year- I understand this is what the exercise is likely to cost- by going to any Australian Information Service bookshop and purchasing a copy of a book called 'The Australian Constitution' for 55c. That would make it quite clear that under section 5 1 matters in relation to other countries are the exclusive province of the Federal Government. 
in replyFirst, may I thank the Opposition, particularly  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Sim  for their remarks. I have already apologised to  Senator Davidson,  and I now apologise to  Senator Sim,  because I was not here to listen to all their remarks. I had an appointment with the Pakistani group. I could not foretell this morning that we were going to have 54 petitions to the Senate. It threw out my timetable a little but I do apologise to both honourable senators. Let me say that I appreciate their remarks very much. I feel that both honourable senators highlighted the attitude of the Australian people towards aid. 
One of the great things, I think, about our aid program- going back before we were in governmentis that the Australian people have never begrudged the amounts of money that we have given for aid. But they have been critical, saying that we were not doing enough in some areas. That is a very human and understanding attitude because when they go overseas they see the problem. They are decent people and they are worried about it. They come back and say: 'Why does not the Government do something?' One of the things they often ask is why does not the Government do something specific in which they are prepared to help. The problem there is that we must first find out what the government of the country concerned wants. 
I remember on one occasion I was very impressed with what was put to me by a doctor who had a complete proposal on what could be done by setting up a hospital. He had already been in touch with doctors skilled in that section of science and medicine. I was most impressed with his proposal. Even though it was a little outside our bailiwick I thought it was a good idea and wanted the Government to do something about it. The outcome was that the government of that country was not interested and that was the end of the matter. I just give that as one example. I am sure both  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Sim  have struck this. We can go along the track with people who want to do things but the problem is getting the aid across to people at the other end. I have been supplied with notes about what  Senator Davidson  was saying and I think he is completely right when he refers to the challenge of the development issue. This is one of the reasons that this body is being set up. 
I understand, before I came into the chamber, that  Senator Sim  queried whether this body should be part of the Department of Foreign Affairs or whether it should be a statutory body. I think that is a conflict that will go on forever. Quite frankly, I do not know whether statutory bodies are the best way to administer a government function. I think in some ways they are but in other ways they are not. The Post Office is about to become a statutory body. It has been talked about for as long as I can remember. There has been an inquiry into whether the Post Office should become a statutory body and the Government has accepted the recommendations of that inquiry and the Post Office will become a statutory body. There is always this conflict. 
On the question of liaison, I think  Senator Sim  put his finger on what is probably the crux of the whole matter: How to make this body efficient, how liaison will work to give effect to what the Commonwealth Government wants- whatever Party may form the Government from time to time- and where our aid is to be given. We just cannot give all the aid that we want to give unfortunately. The Government has examined this matter closely. I have had talks with the head of the Canadian statutory body before this Bill was introduced to set up this authority. We had long talks about the matter. I asked  Mr Loveday,  of my Department, to go from Paris on one occasion when we were at the Development Assistance Committee section of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, examining this matter to have talks about this special problem. The problems appeared to us to be manageable. The Canadian authority felt that somewhere down the line we would always find conflicts- as it had found- not only between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the body distributing aid but also with some of the other departments. This will need proper administration from the top to iron the problems out and keep them at a minimum. I suppose we have to live with these bureaucratic things all our lives. We just have to minimise the problems as much as we possibly can. 
The question of effectiveness of the Agency was raised. This is the reason we are setting the Agency up in this way. It has been rightly said that it is not only the amount of aid which is important but it is the effectiveness of aid. I always think that we have just got to make sure that we get the greatest value for our dollar that we possibly can. The idea of setting up a special body of people is so that they can develop an expertise in this field, and concentrate on it over the years so that they will know how to apply policies better than any other department. That is the idea of establishing a statutory body. That is the aim the Government is hoping to achieve. 
Over the years there have been changes in aid. We are looking more at the question now, when we project aid into a country, of ensuring that the aid employs a lot of people, particularly in agriculture. I have had long talks in the last couple of days with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  because  Senator Wriedt  will attend next week what may be a very momentous conference- the World Food Conference in Rome. This matter received a lot of impetus last year at the United Nations. It was suggested by  President  Boumedienne of Algeria. At about the same time  Dr Kissinger  spoke on this matter. We ourselves raised this question in my speech to the United Nations and said that this was the sort of thing that we thought should be done. 
Australia is one of the big food producing nations of the world. I am sure, out of the conference which  Senator Wriedt  is attending, will come forward planning for the planting of crops and this type of thing. At the same time other countries that cannot produce food have to weigh in on their side of it. Maybe countries which have a lot of ships may be able to help us with freight. Because of an initiative taken recently by the Government we have already attracted some help in this regard. The country to which I am referring cannot produce food but it can help Australia with the shipping. Australia, being where it is, has to spend a lot of money to freight foodstuffs. The Ethiopian situation is one I refer to particularly because not only did we have to get the wheat there but also we had to bag it to get it up into the area from which it could be distributed. Of course, this becomes tremendously expensive. It breaks one's heart when one compares the amount originally allocated with the final cost. One's heart starts to sink. 
The question was raised of humanitarian aid to refugees. I answered a question on that matter today and  Senator Sim  and I had quite a talk about it on an estimates committee. I share his views on this matter. I would emphasise that the Cabinet decision is that this aid is for humanitarian purposes only. So, it is done by the direction of the Cabinet. If I go outside that, I am putting my head on the block. I do not want to put my head on the block and I would not want to see it happen anyway. The fact is that people have flown across borders because of the problems in places like Mozambique, Namibia, and Rhodesia where the fighting is going on. There is a flood of people from such countries who have settled in other areas. There has been a big influx recently since the fighting finished in Namibia. I do not know why some of the people have gone back into Mozambique. There was a big influx of people from Namibia into Zambia and Tanzania. Now the people are going back on the other side. 
As I said today, our Ambassador from Dares Salaam is going to look at the situation. I like to get information from Australians and from people who are paid to do this job for us. This Bill is for humanitarian aid. It results from the unfortunate wars that have been going on and aid will be going to people who are indeed in very dire straits. So, there is no great argument about the setting up of this Agency. I am glad that  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Sim  have spoken of keeping a critical eye on this. I hope that they do. We are going to have, as honourable senators are aware, a body of outside people who will keep in touch with this matter. Those people will change from time to time and they will come from all sections of the community. The more constructive criticism the Government receives in relation to this matter the better it will be. It is always very easy to make destructive criticism. For instance, one could look at the figures for aid and say that they have dropped this September as against last September. Of course this happens because it is only at the end of the year that we can really see the amount of money that we have spent. Australia has a very proud record in the field of aid. I want to see it maintained. Last year we were fourth in the world on the criteria that the OECD applies to this. It is a proud position to be in. 
I just want to make one other personal observation on this matter. Although we talk about aid being .07 per cent of the gross national product this, like all figures, can be distorted. If the gross national product is racing away, it makes it very much harder to keep expenditure at .07 per cent of the gross national product. The United States of America, with its tremendous and rising gross national product, does not get near that figure of 07 per cent. Nobody would suggest that the United States of America does not really pull its weight in regard to foreign aid. It would be a funny-looking aid program without the amounts of money that America puts into it. We always have to keep this matter in perspective. Although we hope to increase Australia's amount of foreign aid in this decade to .7 per cent of our gross national product, nevertheless .7 per cent of Australia's gross national product is not like .5 per cent of the American gross national product. In all these things, people often seem to think that we are the only country giving aid in an area whereas, of course, we are only one of the many countries. 
The personal observation I want to make is that I do not think there is anything magical about the level of aid being .7 per cent of gross national product. Very probably, it is the lowest common denominator that was reached at an international level. I think that in the world in which we live it is little enough to expect that all countries should reach towards that level of aid. I thank the Opposition very much for its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
As the honourable senator knows, this is something new. When it was put before me as a new proposition I realised all the political dangers in listing the expenditure under this heading. But this was an area which had been largely neglected. It is true that those countries I mentioned todaythe Scandinavian countries, etc.- were contributing and had not been neglecting this area. But we want to direct this expenditure specifically to that area. It is only a small part of our whole budget. We are not directing all of the expenditure to that area. It is a question now of the most efficient way to incorporate the safeguards that honourable senators have mentioned today so that this money is spent for humanitarian purposes, and also the administration of it. 
This is one of the problems. It arose particularly when we sent food to the Swahilian region during the African drought. It is not sufficient to say that we will send food, maybe made-up food, raw grain or something like that. We cannot have that food distributed at the other end, because we would have to set up a body to do this. In some areas we have been criticised. We have been told that although we get the food to an area, we do not distribute it. Honourable senators have to think about the problem for only a couple of moments to realise that to distribute food in some of the countries as large as the African countries we would need to have a transport system which would waste so much of the money. This is where the international agencies come into the picture in a very big way. As long as we can obtain an assurance that the aid can be distributed in the country concerned, this is what we do. 
As I understand the position, we are giving the food or aid to organisations which distribute it around the world. We would be putting money into those organisations in other ways. Really, this small amount is being earmarked for this area. When the aid arrives at the country, there are small organisations such as the South West Africa People's Organisation which would distribute aid, for instance, to the Namibian people. We have to look at the position to see whether any one of these organisations would not be acting in this way. Frankly, I do not think that that would be the case. Providing that people are starving, want training or hospitalisation, I do not think that we will really worry which organisation assists. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The answer to the first question is no, and the answer to the second question is no. 
-The very short answer is no. I think I remember answering a question something along these lines previously in the House. While I was in New York I had 2 very long talks with the man who was then the Greek Foreign Minister. I had these talks both early in the piece and later after he had had a chance to talk to  Dr Kissinger.  I am sorry, the honourable senator mentioned - 
-I talked to  Dr Soares  in New York and later with  Dr Santos  here. I also spoke with  Mr Adam  Malik who of course is interested in this matter. There is nothing in the attitude of any of those people which is alarming at all. In fact, their attitude pleases us completely. The situation is that for 400 years the Portuguese have been the colonial power in Timor. Of course, Timor is still the prime responsibility of the Portuguese because they are there. Obviously 3 things could happen. Firstly, because of the halving of the island with Indonesia, Timor could seek to be incorporated into Indonesia. Secondly, it could go for independence. Thirdly, it could very well continue on with the Portuguese. What is certain is that whatever it does, changes will occur. If it stays with the Portuguese the changes will be for the better because of the general Portuguese situation. The Portuguese have had a look at their colonial powers and this thing has come to a head. I do not think there is any other way to handle the situation than to adhere quite tightly to what the United Nations has said over all these years. We have been saying as a government since we have been in power that we believe in the self-determination of people. We believe that they should make that decision and that it should be closely aligned with the several decisions made by the United Nations over the years. 
In answer to the first question, I do not know whether the Prime Minister said that or not. The treaty of NARA will not be signed during Prime Minister Tanaka 's visit. There has been a long process of to-ing and fro-ing on it. Japan put up a draft treaty and we put up another and so on. I was asked a few weeks ago whether we should speed up the preparation of the treaty and have it signed during his visit. I said no. This is a very technical matter. It is the first time it has been done. This is a new type of treaty. As I understand it, Japan has never entered into this type of treaty with anybody else. My attitude is that it is better to have a good treaty than a fast one. It would be nice to sign it when Prime Minister Tanaka is here but does that really matter when it is a treaty that is going to last for as far ahead as we can see? So it will not be signed during the time that he is here. I have seen a draft and have been in fairly close contact with my officers who are working on it. As the doctors say, it is coming along as well as can be expected under all the circumstances. 
-The Khmer or Cambodian position at the United Nations is that there is a resolution from last year which, as  Senator Grimes  says, seeks to seat the Grunk Government in place of the Lon Nol Government. That was deferred last year. This year a resolution is to be put which calls on the Secretary-General to use his good offices to try to bring about talks between the 2 parties. So the situation is that there will be 2 resolutions before the General Assembly. A further resolution gives precedence to that second resolution which calls Kurt Waldeim into the play. Australia will support the resolution to call in the SecretaryGeneral. We will also support the resolution to give the matter precedence. In addition we will co-sponsor the resolution proposing United Nations involvement. Then the matter will rest on whether that resolution is carried or the United Nations goes back to the position last year and we vote on the question of who shall be seated. We have taken the attitude that because we recognise the Lon Nol Government- the Government with which we have our credentials at the moment- we will support that Government. So there is a series of situations. We will support not only the move to try to bring the United Nations more fully into the matter but we will also seek to give it priority. If it does come to a vote we will support the resolution that the Lon Nol Government be seated at the United Nations. 
-I cannot tell the honourable senator whether this question has been voted on or not; I do not know. The vote is imminent; it could have happened by now. A rather long debate about this matter has been going on in the Security Council. The second question which the honourable senator asked was whether we will press for the expulsion of other members of the United Nations. As I explained the other night when we were debating this matter, it is not a question of our pressing for such expulsions. This matter concerning the expulsion of South Africa was referred to the Security Council and we happen to be on the Security Council. So the matter was put firmly in front of us to make a decision. If it had happened last year or if it were to happen next year we would not have been in our present position, but at this time we are. 
Yesterday I made a statement dealing with this very point which  Senator Webster  raiseswhether or not everybody who has assaulted the United Nations Charter- it does not matter to what degree- should be kicked out of the United Nations. Certainly there are many member nations of the United Nations which, if one liked to watch them very closely, one would see have not done the sorts of things that the Charter lays down. But I do not think that this can be used as any excuse for the violations that South Africa has consistently committed over 25 years.  Senator Webster  will see that in my statement. I will give him a copy of it if he would like it. It is not a question of our pressing for the expulsion of other nations. We never pressed this one. 
Yes, we are supporting it. Let me deal with the question that was put to me. The question was: Would we, Australia, move for the expulsion of all other countries? The answer would be no. We did not move in this situation for the expulsion of South Africa. The question was put to ari organisation of which we are a member, and we voted according to what we thought was best. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table of the Senate the text of the Prime Minister's address to the United Nations General Assembly in New York on Monday, 30 September 1974, and of my own address on Monday, 7 October 1974. I also table a short statement on my visit. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) There was no Interim Review. Under the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1974, which received the Royal Assent on 16 October, an Academic Salaries Tribunal has been established. The Tribunal has advised the Government that it will undertake an early review of academic salaries under the Act. This review will include all academic staff in both the universities and the colleges of advanced education. The Tribunal expects to complete the review before the end of 1974. 
and (4) Relativities between academic staff in universities and colleges of advanced education will henceforth be a matter for the Academic Salaries Tribunal. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Director of the Priorities Review Staff is  Mr A.  S. Holmes. He is presently assisted by two full-time Advisers.  Dr D.  A. Evans and  Dr M.  G. Porter, and four Assistants. During 1 973-74, the P.R.S. also included for several months, as full-time Advisers, Professor C. A. Hughes and Professor R. H. Snape. The P.R.S. is supported by staffof the Priorities Branch of my Department, and receives general administrative support from the Department. As the need arises from time to time, consultants are also employed. 

 Mr Holmes $25,235 salary. $1,200 allowance 

 Dr Porter $18,500 

 Dr Evans is employed under contract with W. D. Scott &amp; Co. at a total cost of $25,000 per annum. 
MrHolmes,M.A. 

 Dr Evans, B.E., M.S., M.A.. Ph.D. 

 Dr Porter, B.Ec, M.A., Ph.D. 
The total cost of salaries paid to the Director, Advisers and Assistants to 30 June 1974, including leave and payment of employers' contributions to superannuation funds for seconded members of the P.R.S., was $ 1 04,4 1 6. Consultants ' fees were $2,128. Other costs incurred in the operation of the Priorities Review Staff and its administrative support are carried in the general appropriations of the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
On 15 October  Senator Mulvihill  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs comment on the impression prevalent among the Cypriot community that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees appears to be very slow to assess the total refugee complement in Cyprus; and 
Is it possible that the Cypriot Government is reluctant to allow a large exodus of its population to other countries. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
. It would not be true to say that the United Nations High Commissioner for Regugees has been slow in assessing the total size of the problem of displaced people on Cyprus. The Cypriot community may however have been referring to the inevitable delays that have occurred in locating and identifying specific individuals who have been displaced. 
On 20 August, the Secretary General of the United Nations appointed the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to co-ordinate U.N. humanitarian assistance in Cyprus. His initial report, prepared after a visit to Cyprus from 22-27 August, included an assessment of the problem of displaced people. He estimated that a total of 223,600 people were in need on the island of whom 179,400 were displaced from their homes. Details will be found in United Nations Security Council document S/ 11488 of 4 September, 1974, which is available from the Parliamentary Library. 
It is a separate, and more difficult and time consuming task to locate, identify and list the displaced people. They have of course left their last known address, and each case must be traced individually. 
The International Committee of the Red Cross has established a Central Tracing Agency on Cyprus, with bureaus in various parts of the island, to trace displaced people. The Australian Red Cross has received 2,139 enquiries from the Cypriot community in Australia about the welfare of relatives. 
The Australian Government's consular officer on Cyprus is also tracing and checking the welfare of Australian citizens. 
On 13 September, the Government of Cyprus imposed temporary restrictions aimed at preventing citizens of the Republic from leaving the island unless they secured an exit permit from the Ministry of the Interior. The permit is necessary for male citizens between the ages of IS and 60 and for females aged 1 5 to 55. Permits can be issued, however, to those who are normally resident overseas, holders of foreign passports, and those producing evidence of acceptance of their entry for permanent residence in a foreign country. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
-There is no truth in the report that the girl concerned has been unable to contact representatives of my Department there. Miss Stewart was arrested on 30 September in Bangkok, together with 2 Americans who were also charged with drug offences. Miss Stewart was convicted on 14 November with the possession of heroin and was gaoled for 6 months. The Embassy had contact with her before her trial, arranged for her to be legally represented and has remained in contact with her ever since. 
-Senator Sim is obviously referring to the fourth round of the official level talks between Australia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which took place in Canberra on 14 and 15 November. These are talks that Australia has with several countries, not only the USSR. The Soviet delegation was led by  Mr Sulsov,  the head of the Foreign Ministry's Second European Department. The talks have become a regular annual feature of consultations between the 2 Governments. Similar consultations take place with other countries, including Great Britain, Canada, India, Japan and Indonesia. The principal topic in the discussions was the preparation for a possible visit by the Prime Minister to the USSR early in 1975. Of course, the discussions also covered a range of other international questions. The Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean to which  Senator Sim  specifically referred was mentioned. The newspaper reports that Australia accepted  Mr Sulsov's  presentation were incorrect.  Mr Suslov  explained the importance of the Indian Ocean to the USSR, as the only maritime link for most of the year between the USSR's European and far eastern territories.  Mr Renouf  explained that Australia was concerned that any escalation of foreign military or naval forces in the Indian Ocean could increase the risk of conflict. He asked that the Soviet Government's attention again be drawn to the Australian Government's request for mutual restraint by the 2 super powers, as well as by other leading powers with forces in this region. 
-I am sure that if we set up a consulate in Bali there would be plenty of applicants for the job. I am afraid I cannot help the honourable senator any further. I have not received any report. I cannot even give him the bare facts. 
-The last question really seeks an opinion, which I do not feel competent to give, about whether the peacekeeping forces could be effective, I think they could be effective under certain circumstances but not if a conflagration got right out of hand. Largely the answer to the thrust of  Senator Carrick  's question is yes. I have some background notes here that may be of interest. We have to realise that probably a new situation is emerging following the Arab summit conference at Rabat. The Palestine Liberation Organisation has been recognised by the Arab countries as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. This has been even further enhanced by the decision of the United Nations General Assembly to permit the PLO to participate in the General Assembly's debate on the Palestine issue. 
Honourable senators know that the leader of the PLO,  Mr Yasser  Arafat, addressed the United Nations General Assembly on 13 November. In addressing the United Nations General Assembly on 7 October I said that a peaceful settlement in the Middle East must involve acceptance of the existence of the State of Israel in a permanent and secure condition of life, and equally that the Palestinians should have proper treatment, permanent homes and secure hopes. These remain the views of the Government. The Government continues to support the terms of Security Council Resolution 242 of 22 November 1967 as providing the basis for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East by which every State in the area can live in security. I think I speak for everybody in this place when I say that we are very concerned about the heightening tension in the Middle East at the moment. We hope that this can be dampened down and that we do not have yet another Middle East war. 
-The asylum question at the United Nations is not going to be an easy one. We never expected that it would be easy. I think it has been with the legal section or committee of the United Nations since about 1949. This followed the situation in Chile which was a very distressing one. Under the Montevideo and Caracas conventions Latin American countries could take persons seeking asylum and other countries could not. It was a very difficult situation. It seemed to me that this was a time at least to try to have the provision of asylum extended throughout the world. The importance of it is terrific. If we get it extended in some way we do not know how many lives and how much distress we may be able to save in the future. The Ermolenko case is not a good example because there never was a question of political asylum. Never at any stage did he ask for political asylum. Never at any stage did he claim that if he went back to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics his life would be in danger which under our sort of loose provisions is the criterion that we would look for at the moment. 
When I was at the United Nations it seemed to me and on the advice of the legal people there and of our own people that the best way to handle it was to have the matter referred to the appropriate committee so we could start work on it. I might say as further background to this that when we announced that we were going to float this at the United Nations there was at first the feeling that we should keep our hands off because there is always the problem where a country will say that this is interfering with the sovereignty and rights of its own people. Others wished us well; others backed us. When I was there I was more pleased than I was when I left Australia because countries were starting to get behind us and were saying that this is worth fighting for and this is something that they would look at. As to what information I can give, I will be only too happy to make available interim reports or anything that I can get as the committee gets under way. I do not expect it to be a very quick decision. 
I have not those details in my mind but I will obtain them for the honourable senator. 
-I am informed that the Department of Customs and Excise has no evidence of these activities but I will take on board the general question and make inquiries for the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators I present an exchange of notes between the Australian and United States governments providing for amendments to the agreement of 9 May 1963 relating to the establishment of a United States naval communication station in Australia, together with a statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  on those amendments. Due to the limited numbers available, I have arranged for reference copies of these papers to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I intervene at this stage firstly to thank  Senator Missen  for raising this question in an unemotional way. Secondly, I want to deal with some of the points that he has made. He has dealt largely with the subject of the question which he asked me and which I answered on 2 occasions, firstly off the cuff, and secondly when I got later information for him. He has asked whether I have any further information. Yes, I have. I have been replying to some letters dealing with this subject and I think he might be happy to know that there is some interest in it. I have signed lately two or three letters so at least there is some movement in Australia on this. In these letters which I have written, mostly to members of Parliament who have raised the matter on behalf of their constituents, I have agreed with several of the points that  Senator Missen  has raised. For example, I said in one letter I sent: 
We do not have access to direct information on the matter as there is no Australian mission in Syria. Bui advice available to us indicates that Jewish people residing in Syria are subject to a number of special restrictions. These relate to such matters as internal movement and travel, the holding of government posts and, perhaps most importantly, the right of emigration. Jewish people are also required to carry special identity papers. The Syrian authorities maintain that these restrictions, particularly on the right of emigration, relate to the state of war which they consider still exists between Syria and Israel. Beyond these restrictions our information does not confirm allegations of systematic persecution of the Jewish community in Syria although it does appear the incidents of harassment and violence have occurred. 
There is no denial and the Government is not trying to became an advocate for the Syrians in this matter. It is a question of what one can do in these circumstances.  Senator Missen  acknowledged at the end of his speech that we have taken stands in certain areas. As he was speaking I jotted a couple of them down. I made probably the strongest statement on Solzhenitsyn of any foreign minister in the world. I condemned the Greek action in Cyprus. I later condemned the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. The question of atomic testing we have taken up with everybody that we thought we could possibly have any influence on. Every time I have visited countries which have political prisoners I have raised the matter at the highest possible, level, and so has the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Our advice to people who write to us about these matters is that where the countries concerned have embassies in this country they should go to those embassies and to the people who can do something about their problem- that is, the respective Governments. In many ways those people can say and do things and use pressure probably more effectively than a government can. Other governments can always say to us: 'Look, mind your own business. This is an internal matter. ' To give credit to a lot of the people to whom I have talked, they have not taken that angle. But we know it is in back of their minds and it is their final weapon against us if they wish to use it. If they started to criticise certain types of people in gaols in Australia, I think we would very quickly say that those people have been placed there because of the due process of law in Australia as unhappy as we may be with some of the types of people in gaols in Australia and some of the due processes of law. 
I refer now to the question of why we are remaining silent.  Senator Missen  asks whether it is a matter of getting oil money or getting votes in the United Nations. Neither is true. Oil money will not be recycled, which is the modern word for anything done at this level, but will go where long term investments and that type of thing can be made. The money will go to politically stable countries in which the oil producing countries can see a great return for their money over a long period. They have so much money- $69 billion extra this year- that they will be able to pick and choose as they go along.  Senator Missen  raises the question of lining up votes in the United Nations. Anybody who goes to the United Nations and studies it will find that that just does not work, even if they wanted it to work. At times delegates will have to vote against very old friends and at times will be disappointing people who look to the new stands that Australia has developed during the last few years. Lining up votes is just not on. It just does not work in that way. 
If honourable senators look at some of the votes we have taken in the last session they will see that we have disappointed everybody at times. Sometimes it has been our own Western European and Others Group. At other times on the South African question we have disappointed black Africans. On other votes we have disappointed some of our friends in the WEO Group. This is inevitable. This is what I believe meetings are all about whether they be meetings of a political party, a cricket club or the United Nations. People must stand up in their own way, doing their best with all the information in their hands at the time. The very next day they may regret it or wish they had taken a stronger stance. That is all anybody can do. I think that all any politician can do at the end of his life is to look back and to say that he did what he thought was right at the time with the information he had. Maybe he will make mistakes. He will certainly make mistakes. 
I want to make it very clear that the more interest I see- there is a great interest throughout the world- in the question of the denial of civil liberties in other countries the happier I am. There is a great interest, particularly in those countries close to us, in the question of prisoners. I think there should be a great interest in it. I think people should feel embarrassed, they should feel slighted by it and they should express their opinions. I am all for that. The matter comes to the question of what a government can do. As I say I always tell people who come to me to talk on matters of this nature to go along to the embassy involved or to any other avenues there may be to make their views known. It is the governments which deny civil liberties which can give civil liberties if enough pressure is put on them. 
As I say we have made statements on such things as Greece, Turkey, Chile and Solzhenitsyn, because we believe our voice has some weight. But I think we have to be careful, particularly in the area we occupy in the world, to be helpful and to stand up on moral issues and principles but at the same time not to get the name of being meddlesome by meddling in the affairs of other people.  Senator Missen  makes the point that we have not made a statement on a situation on which he thinks we should make a statement. It is just a value judgment that we have made. 1 do not say we will adopt this attitude for all time. The situation touches on the most sensitive area in the world and in my view the most dangerous area in the world today. We are going through a special time. Only a few days ago it looked very much as if yet another war could have broken out in that front. We are dealing with a very sensitive and very delicate position. It is a very difficult thing to say whether our voice will make any difference. It is not as if the world is ignoring the situation. As I said in my answer to  Senator Missen,  which he quoted, a meeting took place in Paris of no less than 29 countries. At the meeting the countries were pretty forthright. They did what they thought. As I stated in my answer to  Senator  Missen they  called on people like  President  Nixon,  Mr Brezhnev  and the Syrian  President, President  Assad, to take some action on this matter. They are the people who have the leverage here. What sort of leverage would we have in Australia? We are a long way from the situation. Apart from making a stand and saying that we condemn this sort of thing, what leverage do we have? 
Yes, maybe. As I say, this is not the end. The matter can be looked at in the future. I feel we are in a very delicate situation at this stage. Things happen in the world of diplomacy that do not always become public headines, and thank heavens they do not. We have a lot of friends, a lot of powerful friends, who I do not think would hesitate to ask us if necessary, to do anything in this regard or in any other regard as they frequently do. To my knowledge we have not had any pressures from our friends in this regard. 
I do not think I have much more to say. I have answered  Senator Missen  's second point concerning the rousing of world opinion. I have said that people have to put as much pressure as possible on the governments concerned.  Senator Missen  referred also to the Jewish communities which have had a history of persecution, I agree. Unfortunately it is not only the Jewish people in the world today who are suffering the loss of civil liberties. It is happening, as I say, in many countries. I repeat that people ought to be affronted and should raise the matters.  Senator Missen  has raised this matter again today in an unemotional way. I appreciate that. He has put to me that he disagrees with the line we are taking at the moment. He thinks we should be taking another.  His  words will be listened to and they will certainly be studied. I promise him that. 
-I am sorry that I did not answer that part of the question. Because 90 per cent of the question was propaganda I answered that section of it first. No, we are not reassessing our attitude. 
This is a series of questions asking me for my opinion. Clearly it is out of order. 
In the 2 years that I have been associated with the portfolio of Foreign Affairs, both as Minister for Foreign Affairs and as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, several people from Europe have spoken to me, urging that the Prime Minister should visit their countries. 
-There is quite a long list of Europeans whom I could mention. I could leave others out. Honourable senators opposite may giggle about this. They do not take it seriously. I might say that  Mr Snedden  is also making a European trip, and no Europeans have ever expressed a desire to me that  Mr Snedden  should visit them. Evidently the question was asked in a jocular manner but I am trying to answer it seriously. The point is that several diplomats have from time to time pressed me to get  Mr Whitlam  to visit their countries. When it has been mentioned that he will make the trip there has been quite a queue of them. Those are the facts as I know them. The matter has certainly been mentioned to me several times. 
I have seen reports of the comments made by  Mr Solzhenitsyn.  I very much regret that some of the remarks he made obviously were based on misconceptions about the Government's decision concerning the Baltic States. There has never been any question of forgiveness in regard to the Government's recognition of the present position of the Baltic States. After the passage of so many years the Government's decision simply represented the recognition of the realities of the situation. It is only fair to say that there has been a persistent campaign of misrepresentation of the Government's decision on this matter. 
-Can 't we pick where they come from? The real old com baiters come through. 
That was an interjection from  Senator Webster,  the racist defender. It is only fair to say that there has been a persistent campaign of misrepresentation of the Government's decision in this matter. It appears clear from  Mr Solzhenitsyn  's remarks that he has been one of many people deceived by this campaign insofar as he has been led to believe that the Government's decision implies attitudes such as forgiveness when it does no such thing. I hope that Hansard has been able to record my answer in spite of the organised interjections. 
-Generally in this place we ignore standing order 99 which places strictures on the type of questions asked. I really think that the language used by  Senator Webster  has gone over the fence and that the question does not warrant a reply. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for supporting the Bill. There have been some very exaggerated comments about it.  Senator Carrick  took the line that it was not providing enough money for what was required by local government. That is interesting because if the Opposition parties were in government there would have been nothing for local government. This is the scheme that we said before we came to government would come into being. It was criticised by the Government of the day which is now the Opposition.  Senator Carrick  went on to talk about destroying the States and destroying local governments. He used that exaggerated type of language. I do not think he was really serious in what he said. I think he thought he was out on a platform and had to use that type of language. 
This Bill is illustrative of a part of the history of politics in this country. Whenever a Labor Government introduces something new, a new initiative, it is condemned by the Liberal and Country Parties, as was the case in the old days of the Nationalist governments. Those initiatives were criticised up hill and down dale but finally accepted. That is what the Opposition has done tonight. Members of the Opposition accepted a new scheme but at the same time made a sideswipe at it. Of course, members of the Opposition opposed the scheme completely before we became the Government. 

 Senator Carrick said he would not criticise the Grants Commission. I have said over the years that if ever a student wanted to read a government report which was so near to excellence that it did not matter he should read all the Grants Commission reports, even when it dealt with the States. The honourable senator said that he would not criticise the Grants Commission but then set out to do just that. He said the people on the Grants Commission were becoming the dictators who were going around telling local governments how to rate. They are not doing that at all. The Grants Commission does not stop any local government from applying the rates it wants. What the Grants Commission set out to do has been made quite clear. The Commonwealth Grants Commission was asked to do for local government what it had been doing for the States for many decades- and what an excellent job it did- and that was to get some sort of equalisation between people living in the various States. We adopted the modern approach and said that not only should the people living in different States be brought as near as possible to the same standard of living but also the people living within the States. 
There was some criticism of the fact that the Grants Commission was dealing with groups. As was pointed out in the second reading speech, there are about 900 local councils. Surely, in the name of common sense, that number makes it quite obvious that there was no possibility of any body of people or any single individual dealing with those local councils individually.  Senator Scott  said that because of the inflation which this Government deliberately created- again this exaggerated language- we had to introduce this type of legislation and this type of payment. The fact is that we foreshadowed this when in Opposition in the days when the present Opposition, then in government, claimed that there was no inflation. So we are not putting this before the Parliament because of inflation. It was talked about and the concept was created by the Labor Party when in Opposition.  Senator Carrick  said that the amount of money provided in this Bill is only 4 per cent of total local government expenditure but my advisers tell me that his figures are a little out because in 1972-73 the total expenditure of local government was $7 1 3m of which we are going to provide over $56m, which is much closer to 8 per cent than 4 per cent of the total. 
This is not a matter of a dictatorship going around telling local governments at what level they should rate. As everybody knows, this legislation is merely trying to bring to what has been a very successful operation over many years some sort of equalisation between the States so that they are treated as equally as human hands can possibly do. It is all right to say that we ought to be handing money down to local government through the States as we have done since 1900. The fact is that we are living in a new era and local governments today are taking on responsibilities we never dreamed of a decade ago. The Government recognises this. The mere fact that the Opposition is supporting this Bill shows that it at least recognises that this initiative is one that ought to be taken and is here to stay. I do not take a lot of notice of some of the exaggerated language but some of the other remarks will be noted by the Grants Commission in time to come. I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My Department has been informed by the Department of Labor and Immigration to the effect that: 
Sergeant Wollner (Wollmer) was assessed against the usual criteria. 
The decision was given is accordance with the delegations normally exercised. 
All Australians will be sad to learn of the death in New York of the former Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Mr U  Thant. U Thant served his country with honour, and became the first SecretaryGeneral from the so-called Third World, to the lasting credit of both. He went on to discharge the highest office in the United Nations organisation with the greatest distinction, during a decade fraught with crises in the United Nations and for a period longer than any other SecretaryGeneral. The office which U Thant held has been described with justice as the most impossible job in the world. It is a greater tribute than any I can pay to recall that, after his first term, U Thant was re-appointed for a further 5 years as Secretary-General, and would have received the confidence of the United Nations for a third term had he not elected to retire. The cause of peace is the poorer for his passing. On behalf of the Australian Government I offer to his widow and to his daughter the condolences of the Australian people. 
-Most of the Arab countries have accepted the right of Israel to exist, and this we welcome. We are going through a transitional stage with the PLO. We would welcome the PLO stating what we have stated several times, that is, that the right of Israel to exist must be paramount in all negotiations. That is the thing we made very clear in recent votes in the United Nations. 
-The Palestine Liberation Organisation is not a state. This is one problem which is flowing right across the very delicate negotiations which are going on today in the Middle East and at the United Nations. What has happened is that at last, after all this time, at Rabat the other Arab countries have recognised the PLO as the political wing. That is the situation at the moment. 
The political wing of the Palestinian people in the Arab countries. They recognise now that the PLO has the right to speak on their behalf whereas, up to now, there has never been any clear indication, as I understand it, of the various sections. This has created a vastly new situation in the Middle East. As the Senate knows, the United Nations took the unprecedented step of allowing  Mr Arafat  to speak there the other day. That is the situation which has developed at the moment. The PLO is not a state because at the moment it has no definable ground such as other countries have. That is the difference between that organisation and several other countries. 
It is not a case of recognising the Palestine Liberation Organisation. Members of the Organisation are spokesmen for the Palestinian people. Because the United Nations has accepted this position, as the situation develops there will have to be some negotiations with these people. 
At the moment an inquiry is going on into the whole of the Australian Public Service. Anybody, including departments, can make submissions to that inquiry. The Department of Foreign Affairs has made a submission to it. It was explained a little more fully by the Secretary of the Department the other day at the Press Club. I do not feel like commenting on it while it is before the inquiry. 
There is no doubt that the Palestine Liberation Organisation and everybody else know where we stand on the question of violence. It is interesting to note that in the very sad case of the hi-lacking of the British Airways aircraft a few days ago, in which one person was murdered, Yasser Arafat, the leader of the PLO, condemned the hi-jackers as saboteurs damaging the Palestinian cause. When we hear such statements we can hardly accuse the PLO of having that sort of activity as their official policy. There is no doubt that there are sections of people in the Arab countries carrying out some typically guerrilla warfare against Israel and committing some acts of sabotage and murder such as this. There is retaliatory action being taken on the other side. This is one of the things, of course, that everybody condemns. One of the things that may come out of this situation, if we get the more responsible people on the Arab side to come forward and speak, is, hopefully, a diminution of this terrorism and murder. 
-The Australian statement in the Committee of Twenty-four on the report of the Visiting Mission to the Cocos Islands was delivered by the Australian representative on 12 November 1974. On 13 November the Committee of Twenty-four adopted the draft report of the Visiting Mission, endorsed its recommendations and conclusions and approved unanimously for submission to the 
Fourth Committee- that is, the Trusteeship Committee- and subsequently to the Plenary of the General Assembly, a draft consensus on Cocos. The consensus notes with satisfaction the co-operation of the administering power with the Committee of Twenty-four in regard to Cocos and its willingness to receive a further Visiting Mission and draws the attention of the administering power to the conclusions and recommendations of the Visiting Mission. Although copies of the final printed version of the draft report are not yet available, copies of the Australian statement in the Committee of Twenty-four and of the draft report in its present form are available to honourable senators in the Parliamentary Library. 
-I am not aware whether a telegram has come to me. It could well be that it is in my office and I have not seen it yet. As regards the question of making amends about what it is alleged the Prime Minister said, I do not know. As I understand it, the Prime Minister has denied making the statement, but I will check on that. 
-I did see the 'Four Corners' program on Bangladesh on Sunday night. Bangladesh is one of those countries that have been hard hit by the recent price rises for oil, fertilisers and food. Bangladesh now finds it difficult to finance grain import requirements, and the gap was further widened by grain losses in the August floods. It was estimated that at one stage in the August floods probably 80 per cent of the country was under water. The Australian Government has responded promptly to the Bangladesh crises with the following assistance: Chartered aircraft delivered emergency aid, which consisted of skim milk powder, plastic sheeting for temporary shelter, and medicines, during the August floods, at a total cost of $135,000. We also shipped during October 77,000 tonnes of wheat to Bangladesh at a cost of $1 1.7m, including freight. Our aid is thus arriving at a time when it is most needed. The total Australian official aid to Bangladesh in 1974-75 will exceed $ 15m, which is 50 per cent more than the already substantial figures for 1973-74. This places Bangladesh in third place after PapuaNew Guinea and Indonesia on the list of countries which are receiving aid from Australia. At the moment the provision of further assistance to Bangladesh is under consideration. 
As I said earlier, there is no doubt where we stand on this question. There is no doubt that the Palestine Liberation Organisation knows where we stand on it, as I think does every decent nation in the world. I will take up the suggestion of  Senator Missen  and see whether there is an appropriate level at which we can do this. 
An Arab resolution condemned Israel for carrying out archaeological work in Jerusalem. It invited the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation to withdraw all assistance from Israel until it halted that work. In our view, the resolution was politically motivated. The charges against Israel were not established to the extent that would have justified such extreme action against it. Therefore Australia voted against the resolution. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
-I move: 
That the Sessional Order relating to the days and times of meeting of the Senate be varied as follows: 
1 ) That, unless otherwise ordered, the Senate shall sit on 29 November, 6 December and 13 December at 10 a.m. 
The Sessional Order relating to the adjournment of the Senate take effect at 5 p.m. on Fridays. 
The arguments for this motion are well known to honourable senators. If anybody has forgotten them he should look at the Hansard record over many years and he will see that this is something that happens towards the end of a session because it seems to be beyond the wit of man to stop the accumulation of legislation. The Government has a lot of legislation to put through. The reason for asking the Senate for an extension of the hours of sitting is to get as much legislation as possible through so that the Senate can adjourn at a reasonable time before Christmas. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
( 12.39)- I move: 
That iiic Bill bc now read a second lime. 
There is a very long second reading speech to this Bill, covering 15 pages, and there are several attachments. I seek leave to incorporate the speech and the attachments in Hansard. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry entitled 'Report on Navigational Aid Systems', dated November 1974. 
-I will have to refer this to the Minister. As I generally understand the position- 1 would be subject to correction- bars are open to all sexes and to all people. Sometimes by custom some people are excluded. That is not very helpful, I know, lt is my general impression ofthe situation. I will refer the question to the Minister and get a full reply. 
I lay on the table the text of certain treaties which have entered into force and to which Australia has become a party by signature. A list of the treaties has been distributed to honourable senators for their information. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1974 I present the first annual report of the operations of the Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 27 ofthe National Library Act 1960-73 I present the 14th annual report of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30 June 1974 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General 's report on those statements. 
-I will refer the question to the Special Minister of State and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
I ask that the question be put on notice. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Since December 1972 the following Heads of Mission have been appointed from outside the Australian Public Service: 
The Honourable J. I. Armstrong 
DrS. A.Fitzgerald 
The Honourable V. C. Gair 

 Mr B. A. Grant 
High Commissioner in the United Kingdom. 
Ambassador to the People's Republic of China 
Ambassador to Ireland 
High Commissioner in India and Ambassador to Nepal. 
The party affiliations of these appointees and their support or opposition to the return of the Labor Government is irrelevant to their ability to perform their duties as Heads of Mission. 
The salaries paid to the appointees listed above are: 
-I understand that the position as set out by  Senator Webster  is basically correct. He was careful to use the word reports'. These reports, which are all we have to go on, state that there were 61 former Cabinet Ministers and government officials executed, including two former Prime Ministers- one  Mr Wolde  and the other  Mr Makonnen,  who was indeed World  President  of the YMCA. I think that not only the Government but also everybody in this House views with very great concern any situation anywhere in which the fundamental rules of justice, including the right to a fair and independent trial, are abused. If the reports are correct the Government deeply regrets the summary execution of 6 1 former Ministers and officials in Ethiopia and hopes that the remaining detainees held by the Ethiopian military command will be given fair trials. The Australian High Commissioner has just returned from Ethiopia to Nairobi. He indicates that so far there have been no civil disturbances in Ethiopia following the executions and that Australian residents are in no danger at present. However, he is watching the situation carefully and, if there is any suggestion that Australians are in any danger, either he or a member of his staff will return. 
I have given some consideration to what Australia could do in this matter. As the honourable senator knows, we have no permanent representative in Addis Ababa itself. We cover Ethiopia from Nairobi. So it would be a slow son of process to make contact in Addis Ababa even if we could. In these circumstances the Ethiopian Government might not even receive our Ambassador. I have asked  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, Australia 's Ambassador to the United Nations to tell the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who has already written to the Ethiopian authorities making known his concern about this matter, that we agree wholeheartedly with those views and wish to be associated with his protest. At the same time I have asked  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre to make known the views of the Australian Government to the Ethiopian authorities in New York. 
-I do not know the details sought in the earlier parts of the question. I will find them out for the honourable senator. He referred to our representative being in Australia. 
-No. He is stationed in Nairobi. 
Well, if I did I apologise. I certainly did not mean to say it. The point I want to make is that because we do not have direct representation in Addis Ababa it was better to take this up in New York where we would get more direct contact. Several points are involved in the question. I will have a look at them and if there are any that 1 have missed I will find out the details from my Department and give them to the honourable senator. 
-I am amazed that  Senator Missen  would finish a question with an allegation about our 'poor record'. According to the figures on international aid issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, last year we were rated fourth in the world. I hardly think that that is a poor record.  Senator Missen  gave some figures which indicated that our aid is dropping. The fact is that the Budget increased our overseas aid by 3 1 per cent this year. I have just had a document put in front of me. There have been claims that in 1 973 Australia 's development assistance expressed as a percentage of the gross national product decreased from 0.59 per cent to 0.44 per cent and that therefore Australia's aid program has decreased. This large decline is calculated on a calendar year basis and is due to the statistical impact at the time of expenditure. It is not uncommon that uneven half-yearly disbursements occur. The figure bears no relation to calculations on a fiscal year basis, which is the only meaningful way of assessing aid expenditure. On a fiscal year basis Australia's aid performance rose from $2 17m in 1972-73 to $259m in 1973-74, an increase of $42m or 19 percent, and the extra funds spent will appear in the 1974 calendar year statistics. Australia's development assistance expressed as a percentage of the GNP slightly increased from 0.53 per cent in 1972-73 to 0.54 per cent in 1973-74. It was announced in the Budget that our aid will approach 0.6 per cent in 1974-75. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974, I present the Remuneration Tribunal's determination of fees and allowances for the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee on the National Estate and the  Chairman  and members of the committee to advise on policies for manufacturing industry. 
It has been a rather unusual debate. At first we were confronted with a closed mind from the Opposition when  Senator Withers  announced that the Opposition would not let this Bill go to the Committee stage. Of course, the Bill did not go to the Committee stage in the House of Representatives either, although if the Opposition had wanted it to it could have. Then in the next breath the Opposition here says that it wants a committee set up to talk about this Bill. But it refuses to use the provisions of the Parliament to carry the Bill to the Committee stage in order, as  Senator Hall  pointed out, to agree with the things it found acceptable and to amend the others.  Senator Scott  said that he agreed with a tremendous lot of the provisions in the Bill and that there were only a couple of them besides which he would put crosses and only a couple beside which he would put query marks. Here is an ideal situation for a Committee debate and an ideal opportunity, because of the state of the numbers in this place, to agree with those provisions that are acceptable and to amend those that are not. Then the House of Representatives, whether it liked it or not, would have the Bill again placed before it and that House would have to do something about the amendments. 
But the Opposition has said that it does not want to go into Committee but wants some other form of committee set up to look into it. If the Opposition is sincere in this attitude- I do not know whether it is or not and I do not like questioning people's sincerity- it seems to me that it is rather muddled in its thinking. On the question of full preferential voting and all the rest of it what the Opposition has been doing in the second reading debate on this Bill has virtually been conducting a Committee debate. I do not want to get dragged into discussing what was said because I would then be making the same mistake of going into a Committee debate, but  Senator Wood  took an over-simplistic approach when he said that the full preferential system is the perfect system because if the first candidate is not elected he then looks to preferences from the second candidate assuming he is not elected and so on down the list of candidates. 
This in theory is right but it is right only if there is something else available besides a full preferential vote, and that is full knowledge of the people for whom one is voting. This may work in any small body of people but it may be that it would not work in respect of the bigger political parties where the numbers would be too many. In a small political party or in a small committee consisting of, say, 25 people, these people probably have worked with one another over a long period of time. If three or four of them are seeking a position within the organisation one is able, because of a knowledge of them, to judge the order in which one should vote for them. But in the last Senate ballot how many candidates did we have in New South Wales? I think there were 78 candidates or something like that. 
-They are people the electors have never seen before and therefore it is impossible for them to judge the worth of each candidate. Yet the electors are bound to vote for each of the 73 candidates. That is an exaggerated position; it has happened only once. It is not uncommon to have 15 candidates or 28 candidates. It is obvious, because of the results of elections over the years, that if the full preferential system is to be effective the voting public must have full knowledge of the candidates. The voting public cannot possibly have full knowledge, even with the advent of television, in elections in Australia today. The Opposition could have amended our suggestion if it had decided to consider the Bill in the Committee stage. It could have come up with something else. 
I understand some people on the Opposition benches would disagree with  Senator Hall's  proposition of moving towards a party system but would seek to adopt the system that some of the American States have where people say that they want to vote for a particular party and that they do not care who the people are. After all that is the reality of voting, particularly in regard to the Senate in Australia today. Some members of the Opposition would want to move to that system, but  Senator Hall  would not. It is obvious that this Bill should be considered by the Committee of the Whole. Opposition senators are denying that. They are saying that they want the Bill to be considered by a Senate Committee. What will be the difference in doing that?  Senator Baume  dealt with the question of voting from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. He said that it was detrimental to religion in Australia. Again this matter could have been dealt with in the Committee stage. It has been acknowledged in the Act that voting from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. could have some difficulties. The voting time of 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. could have been amended if the Bill had been debated in Committee. I do not think it is a vital part of the Bill and I do not think the effect of the Bill would be lost if it was amended in that regard. 
Yes. The Opposition could have amended that time. The amendment may have been accepted. Of course we are not taking out of the Bill the provision for voting before the Saturday. People can still vote before the Saturday. 1 know honourable senators opposite take the view that this is still discrimination because the people do not vote in the normal way. How senators opposite might have suggested that it is a pretty mild sort of discrimination. People would still have their right to vote. Still I take the point that the people might like to go along on the Saturday and vote in the same way as others vote. 
I am glad that  Senator Hall  raised the question of hospitals. Honestly the practice in this regard has been unethical- I will not put it any worse than that; I nearly used a harsher word- over the years. I think it is quite wrong that some parties try to get some sort of 'in' with hospitals, old people's homes and that type of establishment. Quite obviously, when this vote can be discerned, it does not follow in many cases the normal voting pattern throughout the community. One of the things to be done was merely to let electoral officers take over the responsibility. I am sure that is something about which there would have been no argument from anybody. The practice at the moment is just an unethical type of thing. Honourable members opposite are agreeing with the draw for candidates, the restriction on silly names and all these things; yet they take the angle that they will not even let the Bill be read a second time. Honourable senators opposite dealt with the question of speeding up the result of elections. I think  Senator Baume  stated that it was better to get a correct decision than a quick decision. I agree with that, but on the other hand there is no need to have an unnecessarily slow decision. By not very radical sorts of amendments to the Act there could have been a correct decision and not an unnecessarily slow decision. 
In 1972 my Party had a 2-man government. This was brought about because of the way my Party works. As honourable senators know we elect our Cabinet. Therefore we are at a disadvantage compared with members of the Opposition in getting a Cabinet quickly. The Prime Minister of the Opposition Parties chooses his own Cabinet. In 1972 we had a 2-man government, this duumvirate, for some time. We often jokingly say that we are glad the 2 members resigned and gave the rest of us a chance. We thought they might have carried on. We had to have a 2-man government because all our members were not known at that time. We could not ask the old Government to carry on; it had been defeated. We could not form a new government with a full Cabinet. So that bears out that the system is unnecessarily slow. There is no suggestion that we intend to speed up the system to bring about a bad decision or to produce something where somebody is disadvantaged. With modern transport today it is obvious that postal and absentee voting can be speeded up. 
Some honourable senators have been saying that they are disappointed that the Bill has come forward in this form. Members of the Opposition say that they had little time in the other place for debate. They could have debated the Bill in the Committee stage, but they did not choose to do so. Honourable senators opposite could have debated the matter in Committee in this place but they chose not to do so. 
-They had 3 hours and members of the Opposition in the other place could have debated the Bill in Committee but they did not do so. They could have had extra time but they did not choose to take it. Honourable senators can have extra time to debate the Bill in the Committee stage here, but they are not choosing to do so. So honourable senators opposite should not blame the Government and say that they are being pushed. Honourable senators opposite had a chance to debate the matter in Committee in both places and have refused to do so. So, to use the words that have been used so frequently today, just as the Opposition is disappointed that we put in an omnibus Bill, I am disappointed that the Opposition is taking the angle that it will not even debate the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-I will refer the question to my colleague and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (5) I refer the honourable senator to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question on Notice No. 302 (Senate Hansard, 31 October 1974, page 2198). 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (5) See the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 302 Senate Hansard, 31 October 1974. page 2198. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
No. 
Nol applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The dumping of radioactive waste is specifically prohibited by Article 5 ( I ) of the Antarctic Treaty. However, Article 5 (2) states that international agreements concerning the use of nuclear energy and disposal of nuclear wastes shall apply in the Antarctic if all Antarctic Treaty parties agree. The Prime Minister and some other Ministers in addition to the Minister for Science have earlier expressed strong misgivings about proposals to dump nuclear waste in the Antarctic, especially in the absence of scientific data concerning the likely effect of such dumping on the Antarctic environment. This matter is included in a comprehensive review of Australia's policy towards the Antarctic now being undertaken in preparation for the eighth Antarctic Treaty consultative meeting scheduled to take place in June next year. Of course, Australia will be represented at that meeting. 
-The situation at the moment is that the 2 detained African nationalist leaders, Joshua Nkomo of the Zimbabwe African People's Union and the Reverend Sithole of the Zimbabwe African National Union, were released by Rhodesia to attend talks in Lusaka with President Kaunda of Zambia, President Nyerere of Tanzania, President Seretse Khama of Botswana and Samora Machel, President of Frelimo. It is believed that Bishop Muzorewa, of the African National Council, also went to the talks. The Smith regime was represented by Cabinet Secretary Gaylord 
The leaders of Rhodesia's four nationalist organisations- Zanu, Zapu, Frolizi and the African National Council; the only one not mentioned is the Front for the Liberation of Zimbabwehave signed an accord which unites them under the African National Council. Joshua Nkomo and the Reverend Sithole signed the accord on behalf of Zapu and Zanu respectively. 
The initial round of talks in Lusaka failed to produce a formula acceptable to the Smith regime but we understand that talks have continued. Australia has consistently supported the British Government's Five Principles as the basis for a constitutional settlement in Rhodesia, especially the fifth principle that any basis proposed for independence must be acceptable to the black majority of Rhodesia. The Government regrets that an agreement acceptable to both sides could not be produced, but welcomes the news that the Rhodesian nationalist organisations have united under the leadership of the African National Council. The Government hopes that the current talks will pave the way for a peaceful solution in Rhodesia. 

 Mr LIONEL HART 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under a Contract of Sale dated 26 March 1971, the former Overseas Telecommunications Commission property comprising approximately 150 hectares (372 acres) was sold to the Country Fire Authority. 
The terms of the Contract of Sale give the Country Fire Authority an equitable interest in the property, although the Authority would not become legal owners until the terms of the contract have been met. (i.e. 1981 for final payment). 
2 ) and ( 3 ) The Training Wing of the Country Fire Authority of Victoria moved to Fiskville in August 1972 and commenced operations in mid September 1972. 
Certain building works and renovations of existing buildings have been undertaken by the Country Fire Authority to establish their Training Wing at this site. 
Being a Country Authority, the Training Wing had to provide live-in facilities including quarters, dining rooms and kitchens. 
The cost of building works and renovations carried out by the Country Fire Authority since they purchased the property, is not readily available. 
The Metropolitan Fire Brigade Melbourne has established a Training College in Melbourne for the training of its officers and firemen. 
The facilities provided and the courses undertaken at these two training establishments, are not known in detail, lt is expected that there could be some duplication, but as one is a Metropolitan Brigade and the other mainly rural, and composed of volunteers there will be areas where the training will be quite distinctive. 
These two organisations are quite separate and each is responsible for its own training programmes. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Prime Minister's speech and the brochure make it clear that the purpose of the legislation is to provide equalisation grants of a revenue nature. The Grants Commission thus requires to be informed of the disabilities suffered by councils in raising revenue and in providing the ordinary services financed from this revenue. The Prime Minister's statement regarding single purpose or specific development projects relates to expenditure of a capital nature and is thus entirely consistent with the advice given to councils in the brochure. 
The Grants Commission did not recommend grants for any specific projects which councils may have enumerated in their submissions to the Grants Commission. 
The Grants Commission's brochure describes the methods and principles which it has adopted and the kind of information which should be provided by councils in their submissions for financial assistance. This material is supplemented by further elaboration in the Grants Commission's 'First Report 1974 on Financial Assistance for Local Government'. The Grants Commission will no doubt revise and re-issue the brochure to supplement this existing information when it considers that this is necessary. 
-I do not recall the question. Maybe I was away. But I am informed that we have taken up the matter which was raised by  Senator Young.  At the moment we have not any reply. I shall see what the latest position is. 
I remember  Senator Sim  asking me a question about this. I approved an answer to that question. Evidently the honourable senator has not received it yet. As I remember it, all of this is fairly baseless. According to all the authorities we have checked there is no substance in the allegations at all. I shall further check the matter and if there is any further information I shall provide it. 
-I noticed in the Press this morning an article in which  Mr Gibson  stated that he was tremendously grateful to the Department of Foreign Affairs for the work that had already been done in this regard. I do not have personal knowledge of the details, but I will find out and let  Senator Mulvihill  know. 
-The answer is yes, I will find out as soon as possible and let the honourable senator know. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table the report of the Australian delegation to the World Population Conference at Bucharest in August this year, together with a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  relating to the report. 
by leave- Pursuant to sub-section 12D (5) of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973-1974, I table the Academic Salaries Tribunal 1974 Review. This is the first review made by the Academic Salaries Tribunal, which was established on 16 October 1974. It provides for the first adjustment of academic salaries since 1 January 1973 apart from the flow on of national wage case decisions. The Academic Salaries Tribunal is empowered to determine salaries to be paid to academics in the Territories. For institutions in the States its function is to recommend salary levels to be used as a basis for making grants to the States for recurrent expenditure in institutions of tertiary education. As well as requiring that copies of determinations or reports by the Tribunal be tabled the Act provides that either House of the Parliament may, within 15 sitting days of a copy of a determination being laid before it, pass a resolution disapproving of that determination. 
The Tribunal's 1974 Review was received by the Government today and it has been tabled immediately to enable adjustments to academic salaries to be put into effect with a minimum of delay. The Tribunal's determination is effective from 16 October 1974 and it has proposed that all academic salaries be adjusted from that date. To provide funds for these recommended salary levels to be paid to academics in the States, it is necessary to amend States Grants legislation in respect of universities and colleges of advanced education. The Government proposes to introduce this amending legislation in the autumn session. Printed copies of the Review will not become available until the end of this week. However, a few copies are now available for perusal in the Senate Records Office. The Government wishes to record its appreciation to  Mr Justice  Campbell who constitutes the singlemember Academic Salaries Tribunal for his early attention to this Review, having completed it in less than 2 months after the establishment of the Tribunal. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
My remarks on this Bill will be very brief because I think everybody knows the history of it. A report by the Remuneration Tribunal was brought down. That report was rejected by this Senate after it had been passed in the other House. That report contained proposals to increase the salaries of a large group of people including statutory officers, members of the judiciary and members of Parliament. That report, I repeat, was rejected. 
Following that action,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack introduced a Bill relating to one named office holder.  His  Bill proposed in other words to give the benefits recommended by the Remuneration Tribunal to that one office holder. I notice in reading the debates following my return from my recent overseas visit that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack subsequently withdrew that Bill, Remuneration Bill (No. 2) 1974 and introduced the Bill presently before the Senate, including in it some other office holders to which the report referred, namely, the statutory officers. The Government opposes the Bill. At the time, as honourable senators know, because of the report we supported it so that the whole matter could go through. It was not carried. Now that report is being truncated by this Bill which does not cover everybody. In the first place one name was picked out of the report. I merely content myself with saying that we will vote against the Bill. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Details of the main items of additional envisaged expenditure are not available. 
Comparable budget increases for each of the other oilproducing countries of the Middle East are as follows: 
On 13 November 1974,  Senator Sim  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Is he aware that the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  has again been reported to have stated that he regarded Australia as a honorary member of the Third World and that it is up to the Third World whether Australia is accepted as a member? Is this Government policy? If so, why has the Parliament not been advised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister made the comments referred to while he was at the Ministerial meeting of the International Bauxite Association held recently in Georgetown, Guyana. As the honourable senator is aware Australia was a founding member of the IBA. Almost all other members of the Association are regarded as part of what is commonly termed the Third World, and it is in this context that the  Deputy  Prime Minister made his comments. 
Australia cannot in any formal sense become a member of the Third World, because it is a generic term used to describe the developing nations of the world that are neither major powers nor industrialised countries. In describing Australia as an honorary member of the Third World the  Deputy  Prime Minister intended to underline the fact that since coming to power in 1972 the Government has shown a much greater awareness of and involvement with many issues of concern to countries of the Third World. 
Specifically the Australian Government's policies on a number of issues such as colonialism, racism, development questions and peace zone proposals are in essential agreement with those adopted by the countries of the Third World. On many of these issues Australia has acted in concert with or sought the close support of members of the Third World. 
-On 20 November 1974,  Senator Mulvihill  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Can the Minister obtain an up to date assessment of the number of Australians who sought mediation by Australia House when the manpower authorities in the United Kingdom declined to extend their stay in Britain in view of Britain's Common Market obligations and the changed status of Australians in comparison with Common Market nationals? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian High Commission in London has no record of any approaches for mediation in circumstances described in the Question under notice. Up to the end of October the High Commission had received 56 written applications and 60 telephone enquiries regarding extensions of stay for visiting Australians. Most of the enquirers sought only information on procedures, but 7 cases were taken up with the Home Office. The United Kingdom authorities do not keep figures of unsuccussful applications for extension of stay, but state that there are no indications of any increase in numbers of European Economic Community nationals entering the United Kingdom for employment since the entry of the United Kingdom to the European Economic Community. 
-On 28 November 1974  Senator Milliner  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Can the Minister representing the Special Minister of State indicate when local authorities throughout Australia will receive the payments of $56,345,000 that were granted as a result of the recommendations of the first Report of the Grants Commission. 
Will the Special Minister of State remind the recipients of this substantial allocation of funds that it was as a result of the initiatives taken by the Australian Government that the Grants Commission was requested to recommend the finance that should be allocated. 
The Special Minister of State has supplied the following information in answer to  Senator Milliner's  question regarding grants to local government authorities: 
Grants were forwarded to State Treasurers on Wednesday, 27 November 1974. 
The Prime Minister has asked the State Treasurers for their co-operation in ensuring that these funds be paid promptly to respective local government authorities. 
The Special Minister of State has requested Ministers for Local Government in the States and Regional Secretaries to advise Local Councils and the State and Federal Members of the date on which the grants will actually be paid to the Local Councils. In Queensland, the grants were paid by the State Treasury to the Councils on the afternoon of Wednesday, 27 November, the same day on which the Australian Treasury made funds available to the State Treasuries. 
I am sure that all Local Government Councils recognise and appreciate the Australian Government's initiative in the payment of these initial grants as a most significant development for Local Government throughout Australia. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a ministerial statement by the Special Minister of State entitled 'Childhood Services' dated 5 December 1974. 
-I know nothing of these highly colourful things about which  Senator Greenwood  talks. I do not think I can be expected to apologise for what appears in the Press. There are only 24 hours in the day and I do not want to spend the whole of that time apologising to other countries. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Royal Commissions into petroleum drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. Due to the importance of the report the Government distributed copies to all senators during the recess. It is now tabled at the first opportunity. 
I present for the information of honourable senators the reports on injection moulding machines, dated 23 December 1974, and tyres, dated 2 January 1975, of the Temporary Assistance Authority. In accordance with section 20 (2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act I present for the information of honourable senators a report on steam and other vapour generating boilers etc., dated 12 March 1974. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). It is established procedure that all bookings for overseas air travel at Australian Government expense are made direct with Qantas or one of its General Sales Agents. If Qantas cannot make space available on one of its own or its partners' flights on the date travel is desired and it is not feasible to alter the date Qantas will arrange u booking through another carrier. 
Because of this administrative arrangement, warrants are placed on Qantas or its General Sales Agents rather than a particular airline, e.g. Ethiopian Airways. The extraction of information to indicate which bookings were made at Government expense for travel on Ethiopian Airways would be, I am advised, a lengthy and costly exercise involving the examination of many thousands of documents and is not considered to be warranted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The document in question is a telegram. Its publication was without authorisation. I do not consider that publication has compromised the security of communications between Australian missions abroad and the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra or that any suspicion lies upon officers of my Department. 
-On 29 October 1 974 (Hansard, page 2022)  Senator Marriott  requested that I ask the Minister for Services and Property to provide the Senate with information concerning: 
1 ) The price paid by the Australian Government for the Trades Hall building in Hobart; 
The name of the agent or persons who made the contract on behalf of the Government; 
Whose valuation, if any, was accepted by the Government; 
The use to which the building or the land is to be put; and 
When occupancy will be commenced. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The price paid for the Trades Hall site was $425,000. 
Negotiations were carried on by officers of the Department of Services and Property and settlement was effected by the Deputy Crown Solicitor of the AttorneyGeneral's Department in Hobart. 
The valuation was made by the official Australian Government valuers from the Australian Taxation Office. The valuation was $400,000 but the valuer indicated that a price of $425,000 was reasonable. In this context I should indicate that the asking price for the Trades Hall building was $475,000. In answering this question the Minister has reminded me of statements made in Hobart that the price was $270,000 more than the latest Government valuation and $170,000 more than what experienced valuers gave as a fair and reasonable price. The valuations made by the Australian Taxation officers have been accepted from time immemorial by Governments of all political persuasions in Australia and they have been endorsed from time to time in the highest Courts of the land. The State Valuer-General's valuation of course, is made from time to time, usually at intervals of five years and is for limited purposes of rating, land taxes, and other State purposes. It sould certainly not be taken as an accurate assessment of market value. In this particular case the Valuer-General's valuation was made quite some time prior to the date of purchase. For that reason alone, quite apart from the fact that it is a valuation for rating purposes, it would not be an indication of market value at the time of purchase. The valuation advice on which the purchase was negotiated can be amply supported. To suggest otherwise is a reflection on the integrity of highly skilled and unbiased public servants. 
The site will be redeveloped as a Federal Courts complex and offices for the Attorney-General 's Department. In this context 1 should mention that Federal Courts sitting in Hobart for many years have used facilities lent by the State Government or inadequate and unsuitable premises in Australian Government office buildings. 
No date has been set for construction to begin but the Government intends to proceed in consultation with the National Trust of Tasmania to maintain the harmony of the streetscrape thus preserving the architectural character of this historic area of Hobart. 
-The honourable senator is referring to a debate in which in fact  Dr Cairns  and I were on opposite sides during the total debate. He refers to something that he alleges  Dr Cairns  to have said. 
Or purported to have said. He asks me to make a comment on that. I do not think it is my job to speak on behalf of the Government and to try to comment on something that happened in a debate at the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference. 
-I have had no complaints and nothing has been referred to me about the alleged incidents. Evidently, from what  Senator Greenwood  says, there has been some Press speculation. There is Press speculation about all sorts of things. 
-Press reports? 1 do not know the difference between reports or speculation. All I can tell the honourable senator is that I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, know nothing of the matter. I accept his word that the Press reported these things. I seem to remember something about this at the time, but certainly nothing has been brought to me by my Department or by anybody who was on the trip about these allegations. 
-The Department of the Capital Territory informs me that because of the need to expand in Canberra, there are talks taking place with the New South Wales Government, but there is no danger that the Gudgenby park area will be used for anything but a park. 
Firstly, as is not unusual for  Senator Greenwood,  he has based his third question to me on a false premise. I did not say that I was not aware of the newspaper articles. In fact, I said that I remembered seeing them. What I did say was that no complaint had been made to me by anybody on the trip that these things took place. Then the honourable senator asked a hypothetical question namely: If these things happened, are they not of serious concern? I reply: Yes, they would be of serious concern if they happened, but that is a hypothetical question. I said in my answer to his question either yesterday or the day before that I had seen the articles. But I also pointed out that generally I do not act on newspaper articles unless they are followed up or unless they are so serious that I think they should be followed up. The situation is that the honourable senator is basing his question on a false premise. I had read those articles. I repeat that I have had no complaints made to me. The other thing that he asked me was whether I would apologise to the various governments if these things were true. 
-No, my Department has not given me any briefing on it because I have not asked it to do so and because there have been no complaints from the people involved. 
-I think 1 answered a similar question on this subject a session or two ago. We have signed a treaty on migratory birds with the Government of Japan. The treaty will not be ratified until the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill is passed by the Parliament. I am informed that it is expected that that Bill will be introduced into the Senate in the near future. The Government believes that when that Bill is passed it will have the power to enforce the provisions of the treaty on migratory birds. I understand that my colleague, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, has been examining the question of whether actions by the New South Wales State Government will be in contravention of this treaty once it is ratified by the Australian Government. I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation for advice about where the matter stands at the moment. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
1 ) Five years with an option for a further five-year term. 
The lessor has undertaken to complete physical fit-out within two months of receipt of layout. Rental will be paid from time of occupation or 1 April 1975 whichever date first occurs. 
158 550 square feet. 
$6. 10 per square foot per annum. 
No. 
It is quite comparable with other modern buildings leased in the city area. 
Yes, except for minor adjustments to lighting or air conditioning outlets necessitated by partitioning layout. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Department of Services and Property has taken a lease of 1 5 8 5 50 square feet of these premises. 
No, Stocks and Holdings Ltd has a 50 per cent interest with Alberta Centre Pty Ltd. 
Three. In addition, the Australian Government is a tenant in two buildings of which Stocks and Holdings Ltd has a Head Lease. 
Yes. Five other buildings were inspected. 
It is cheaper than that asked for two of the buildings investigated. Other significant factors strongly favoured Remington Centre in relation to cheaper accommodation. 
Glass: Tariff on Imports 
-I have been informed of that. I thought Arafat used the phrase during that speech- the honourable senator was there and might be able to brief me on it- 'I come bearing an olive leaf and a gun'. 
-That is what I meant to say. Thank you for the correction- 'An olive branch and a gun'. On the question of security, we could make inquiries as to what security arrangements were made. As honourable senators know, there are a lot of security guards around the United Nations. It is not a matter for any particular country; it is a matter for the secretariat. Certainly we could make inquiries about it. 
The broad answer is yes, we have. We have made it very clear to all participants that we want to see the Paris accords carried out. We feel that a lot more could be done, and this feeling has been conveyed to the North Vietnamese as well as to other participants. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1973 I present the annual report of the 
Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report on apparel- section 1- men's shirts, woven pyjamas and other woven night wear by the Textiles Authority within the Industries Assistance Commission, and the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on mushrooms. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table the protocol for the continuation in force of the International Coffee Agreement 1968 as extended. 
-The Honourable Vernon Mwaanga, the Foreign Minister of Zambia, is visiting Australia at the invitation of Australia. I have known him for a couple of years now. He is a very responsible, able and charming man. He has reported the situation in respect of what I hope are very radical moves that are taking place in his area of the world following the fall of the Caetano Government of Portugal. As I say, I hope the moves are very radical compared with what they have been and we hope to see something finally done in the terrible Rhodesian situation. 
As I understand it,  Mr Mwaanga  has outlined the alternatives. A war has been going on for a long time and, because of the action of his  President,  in particular, now at long last talks are taking place not with outside forces but between  Mr Smith  and representatives of the African National Council within Rhodesia. All  Mr Mwaanga  has pointed out is what the alternatives are. I think that is a realistic situation. A war has stopped, and if it is not settled by peaceful means then quite inevitably things will go back to the former situation. I think the honourable senator does not do justice to  Mr Mwaanga  when he says that he is threatening war. It is not within the province of  Mr Mwaanga  to threaten war. He is stating the situation as it is. Far from speaking derogatorily of the Zambians in this situation, we should be thanking them very much for the action they have taken in producing what we hope will be a good result in Rhodesia. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, this Bill, which the Government regards as a key element in its overall program of electoral reform, relates in the main to the limitation of electoral expenditure and to the public disclosure of the sources of funds made available to political parties and to candidates. Included in the Bill are provisions which require the appointment of party agents by political parties and the registration thereof by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer; require the maintenance of a Register of Party Agents by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer; require lists of all party agents and official agents to be kept in electoral offices in each State and Territory; require the filing of returns relating to electoral expenditure by registered party agents and official agents with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer within 12 weeks after an election; require returns to be open for public inspection; require the certification of returns by a registered company auditor; enable the reimbursement of auditor's fees up to a limit of $200; prohibit electoral expenditure by any person except a registered party agent or official agent, without prior written authority of the respective agent; prohibit the making of gifts, including donations, to a party or candidate except with the written authority of the registered party agent or the official agent of the candidate; require the disclosure in returns of particulars of gifts, including donations, made to political parties or candidates, through or with the authority of party agents or official agents, but excluding any gift of less than $ 1 00, and gifts by any one person aggregating less than $100, made during the period to which the return relates; and limit the campaign expenditure of a political party, including electoral expenditure by party's candidates in accordance with a specified formula. 
Under the formula the limit of expenditure of a political party in a House of Representatives election- held separately from a Senate election- - would be based on 7.5c for every person enrolled for the division or divisions contested; that is to say, an amount of $593,740 on present enrolment for a party contesting all 127 electorates. In the case of a Senate election held alone, the permissable expenditure of a political party would be substantially less. It would be based on 1.5c for every person enrolled for the State or States contested by the party; that is to say, an amount of $1 16,578 on present enrolment for a party contesting the Senate elections in all States. In the case of a referendum, the formula provides for a limit of expenditure of a political party based on lc for every person enrolled; that is to say, an amount of $77,718. Details of the formula in relation to conjoint Senate and House of Representatives elections are included in the Bill. 
The limits of expenditure presently imposed on candidates are also being varied. For the election of a senator the proposed limit is an amount of 0.2c for every elector enrolled for the State concerned, or $3,000, whichever is the greater. For an election of a member of the House of Representatives, the proposed limit is an amount equal to 5c for every elector enrolled for the division contested; that is to say, $3,250 in respect of a division comprising 65 000 electors, or $2,500 in respect of a division comprising 50 000 electors. Having regard to the importance of enforcing the obversance of the proposed new expenditure provisions, the Bill prescribes penalties up to $10,000 in certain cases and up to $20,000 in other cases. 
Honourable senators will note from the foregoing summary of the principal provisions that this Bill seeks to lay down comprehensive provisions relating to the limitation not merely of expenditure by candidates but also of aggregate expenditure by political parties sponsoring those candidates. At the present time the provisions in the Act relating to maximum permissable expenditure by individual candidates are outmoded and unrealistic and moreover the Act does not presently limit expenditure by parties. This Bill seeks to rectify this anomalous situation. For the purpose of effectively controlling electoral expenditure by political parties and individual candidates, including candidates not sponsored by a party, the Bill's provisions reflect a general realisation that unrealistically restrictive limits on expenditure should not be imposed or be permitted to continue to exist. On the other hand, uncontrolled or undivulged expenditure opens the way to serious abuses of the electoral processes. Under the existing electoral law and procedures there is no limitation or control on the expenditure by political parties and, while there are statutory limits on expenditure by candidates, the current provisions are quite ineffective. All honourable senators would know that at the present time very substantial donations are being made with the purpose of financing campaign expenditure by candidates and parties without disclosure of the sources of such donations. 
The anomalous situation whereunder no adequate account is taken of expenditure by parties, and the artificially low limits imposed upon electoral expenditure by individual candidates, are entirely unsatisfactory. The existing law stipulates that electoral expenditure by a candidate may not exceed $500 in a House of Representatives election, or $1,000 in a Senate election. The existing law also requires all candidates to file a return of their electoral expenses within 8 weeks after the declaration of the poll. Yet, as honourable senators well know, this requirement is generally ignored. In the electoral expenses field, unenforceable, unrealistic law is bad law. Most candidates, from whatever party, wish to observe the law in this respect, but they and the public they serve deserve a law which is realistic, clearcut and enforceable. This proposed legislation follows an examination of the methods adopted in other democratic countries which have taken steps to reform their electoral procedures in these areas. Particular attention has been given to the experiences of the United States and Canada and in essence this Bill demonstrates the Government's willingness to benefit from recent legislative advances made by other countries in this field. 
The Government is, of course, particularly mindful of those happenings in the United States which have been characterised collectively as the Watergate affair'. Under the United States of America Federal Election Campaign Act 1971, laws requiring strict financial reporting of sources of campaign funds took effect on and from 7 April 1972. In Canada, the Electoral Expenses Act passed by the House of Commons on 3 January 1974 was welcomed by all major political parties. This legislation contained provisions for the disclosure of the names and addresses of all donors contributing more than $100. Also a limit is placed on the expenditure of candidates and political parties. Spending by national parties is restricted to 30 cents for every eligible voter. A party exceeding this expenditure is liable to a substantial fine. The Canadian legislation also contains provisions restricting individual candidate's expenditure. Where appropriate the Canadian approach has been taken as a useful guide in the preparation of our legislation. 
Up to the present Australia has been most fortunate in that it has not suffered any serious electoral malpractices or 'Watergates' and as Australians we tend to pride ourselves in this regard. Nevertheless, there is a real need for legislation of a kind now proposed by this Bill, not only to keep our electoral system 'honest' but to ensure that all candidates and political parties, irrespective of their financial standing, have a fair and equitable opportunity of being represented in this Parliament. Reports that multi-national corporations and other powerful organisations have been making substantial contributions to political party campaign funds in Australia highlight the need for urgent remedial legislation in this area. The Government considers it vital that this proposed legislation, which will form a basis for the regulation of the conduct of future electoral campaigns, be placed on the statute books. 
The expenditure by political parties and candidates at the 1974 Senate and House of Representatives elections for broadcasting and televising time on commercial stations alone was in the nature of $ 1.5 m and in this connection I quote from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board 's Twenty-sixth Annual Report on its operations during the year ended 30 June 1 974. Paragraphs 181, 182, 190 and 191 read, in part, as follows: 181. Apart from policy speeches, S 1 3 hours 33 minutes of station time were purchased at a cost of $301,154 for broadcasts of political matter on behalf of parties and candidates. 1 82. The total time occupied by broadcasting of political matter on commercial broadcasting stations during the election period amounted to 683 hours 45 minutes and the charges for that time were $3 16,739. 190. Apart from the policy speeches, 123 hours 48 minutes of station time was purchased for a cost of $1,175,464 for the televising of political matter on behalf of parties and candidates. 191. The total time occupied by telecasts of political matter on commercial television stations and charges during the election period amounted to 196 hours and $1,334,680 respectively. 
In several overseas countries the burden of the cost of broadcasting and televising is partly met from the public purse and it is intended that the Government will give some consideration to this aspect before the next election. 
I mentioned earlier that laws requiring strict financial reporting in the United States took effect on and from 7 April 1972. Honourable senators may be interested to know that it was reported in the Congressional Quarterly of 6 
October 1973 that fund raisers for the 1972 Nixon campaign raised $ 19.7m before that date, the amounts being collected from contributors who believed their names would never be made public. According to the report, the records revealed that the 1972 Nixon campaign effort raised a record total of $60.2m. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard an extract from the Congressional Quarterly of 6 October 1973 listing the major contributors to the 1972 Presidential campaign of Richard Nixon and George McGovern. 
THE PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The extract read as follows)- 
Extract from the Congressional Quarterly Inc. of 6 October 1973 
The  Major Contributors 
Listed below are the contributors of more than $50,000 to the 1972 presidential campaigns of Richard M. Nixon and George McGovern. The period covered, in reports filed with the General Accounting Office, was April 7- December 31, 1972. Large contributions before and after that period are omitted. Amounts are rounded off to the nearest dollar. 
Nixon Donors 

<graphic href="063232197502180_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="063232197502180_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

-T he Government recognises and readily concedes that the provisions of this Bill open up a new and vital field of electoral law reform in this country and it was for this reason that the Bill was taken only to the first reading stage in the House of Representatives before the Christmas-New Year recess. A comprehensive explanatory memorandum was circulated at that time, thus providing ample opportunity for all members of Parliament to closely examine the proposed new measures and to be able to express constructive and considered views on these measures when the Bill was at the second reading stage. 
As every member of this chamber would know, the existing provisions relating to electoral expenditure are farcical and, in some respects, have come to be treated with contempt. How ridiculous is the situation when a serious contender for a House of Representatives seat is allowed only $500 to cover advertising, broadcasting and television, publishing and issuing posters and 'how-to- vote' cards, telephones and telegrams, committee rooms, places for public meetings and scrutineers. In the case of a senator the limit is $ 1 , 000. Yet this is the import of the law as it stands. The previous Government was aware of this ridiculous situation and its attitude was revealed in a Bill introduced in 1971 by the then Minister for the Interior which, in effect, proposed that limitations on electoral expenditure be abandoned. The Government does not support this 'open gate ' approach. Rather, it considers that the time is long overdue to restructure the expenditure provisions into sensible, more realistic and workable legislation. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
-I certainly think that the latest moves are of concern not only to Australian-Greek Cypriots but also to the whole world. On 13 February the Turkish-Cypriot leader,  Mr Denktash,  announced the proclamation of an autonomous Turkish-Cypriot state on Cyprus. The Turkish-Cypriots would seem to see this autonomous state as forming part of a biregional federation in Cyprus. The announcement named  Mr Denktash  as  President  of the autonomous Turkish-Cypriot Administration. It is not clear to us whether the Turkish-Cypriot announcement has led to a breakdown of the intercommunal talks between Turkish and Greek Cypriots. The effect of  Mr Denktash  's announcement must surely be to hinder the process of negotiation rather than to help. The Australian 
Government would regret any action in this direction and urges the 2 parties to continue their efforts to find a lasting and durable political settlement to what undoubtedly is a most complex problem. 
From the beginning, Australia has demonstrated concern over developments in Cyprus and has joined other members of the United Nations in efforts to ensure that peace and security are re-established there. I refer to previous statements on Cyprus made by me in Parliament on 16 August and 16 October 1974. Australia has given aid for humanitarian relief operations on Cyprus, and Qantas Airways Ltd has carried, free of charge, on a space available basis, several tons of supplies for refugees in Cyprus collected by groups in Australia. On 13 December, the Security Council, then under the Presidency of the Australian Representative, extended until 15 June 1975 the mandate of the United Nations peace keeping force, which had been established under a UN resolution in 1964. The Australian Government recently reaffirmed to the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations its willingness to maintain our contingent of civilian police as part of the peacekeeping force there. The Australian Government is watching closely the situation in Cyprus and will continue in its efforts to encourage the parties concerned to reach a lasting settlement. 
-The answer to the first question is no. Representatives of the North Vietnamese Embassy in Canberra called on us and we told them that there was no application before us from the PRG to set up an information service here; and until there was we very obviously could not comment on it. 
-My understanding of the talks that have taken place regarding the Middle East crisis in oil in which  Dr Kissinger  was very outspoken right from the beginning has never been- and I think there was a denial of this by the United States- that it was the intention of the American Government to use force in this situation. So I do not - 
-Senator Brown and I have a different approach to this matter. I will check whether his interpretation or mine is right. I am telling honourable senators how I feel about it at the moment. As I understand it, that was not the situation, but I will certainly check the details and find out which of us has the correct approach to it. 
Confusion still seems to exist on this question. Whether it is deliberate or otherwise I do not know. Early in this situation I was asked- accused really- by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack whether we were canvassing votes from the Third World group, etc. I pointed out then that this was quite ridiculous because the Third World group does not have votes. It would be a little like Malcolm Fraser in his bid for the leadership of the Liberal Party canvassing votes in the Labor Party. Wherever our sympathies lie, we would not have any effect on the vote.  Senator Carrick  has carefully twisted words in asking his question to make the situation appear a little different from what it is. He asked when the vote is to be taken. The convention is that a vote is not taken. He goes on to refer to the Western European and Others group. In recent years as the United Nations became larger it has been formed into groups. In the early days when there were only 46 members there were no groups. Now that the United Nations contains the WEO group- a name that has always amused me, but we are a part of it- it is our turn to submit to the General Assembly a name. 
In the early stages no name at all had been submitted so the Government put my name into the ring. I thought it would be bad if our group appeared to be taking no interest in a job in the United Nations. Since then I have read all sorts of funny things. I still read of our canvassing the Third World or the African group or somebody else. That is so patently absurd. Some of the articles on this subject continually contradict themselves. I read an article which stated that I had told my Department that I was not interested in the Presidency because I did not feel that I could do the job. 
-And because I had a State school education. That statement is very biased because I had both a State school education and a convent school education in a small country town. What that has to do with my candidacy I do not quite know. I think that humility is a very great virtue. I try to achieve it, but I am quite certain that I have not achieved it to the stage where I would let my name go forward for a job and then tell people I could not do it. My humility is not quite that high. These stories continue. The situation is that we allowed my name to go forward as the first candidate. Since then the Spanish and Turkish representatives have announced that they are interested. I have read in the newspapers and I have had information from overseas that possibly candidates could be nominated from Denmark and Luxembourg. If they do nominate it is all for the good of the group. It helps the group to make up its mind. There will not be a knock-down, drag-out fight. There will not be an election such as we have in Australia. A decision will be made by the WEO group as to the name to be put forward. Under accepted procedure the decision has to be made by the third Tuesday in September. Let me assure the House that before then that will be done. 

 - Senator Greenwood has taken nearly 20 minutes to talk about some allegations that appeared in a newspaper. I say to him that these things were just mentioned in the newspaper. I repeat that there has been no complaint made to me. Today we live in a world in which telephone tapping and that sort of thing is technically possible.  Senator Greenwood  seems to think or is alleging that there is only one country in the world which does that, and of course, that is the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He seems to be very outraged about that. But he was not outraged, as I remember, during the whole of the Watergate scandal, which did happen in another country. We now find that  Mr Oakes,  whom we all know, has suddenly been elevated to being a great journalist. I am sure that if in another few weeks  Mr Oakes  writes something with which  Senator 
Greenwood does not agree  Mr Oakes  will drop from his ascendancy very quickly. 

 Senator Greenwood seems to have been saying that I ridiculed the Press, as if it would be something strange about the place if I were to do so. But I did not do that. If  Senator Greenwood  is upset about a government doing something he ought to protest to that government. I do not quite see what it has done to us. We did not bug the journalists who went overseas with us. We did not do that sort of thing. There have been stories in the newspapers which  Senator Greenwood  seems to have accepted as being factual. He wants me to say whether they are true and, if they are, to go and apologise to somebody. Is this not all getting a bit ridiculous? Then  Senator Greenwood  says he read a book in which the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is accused of phone tapping and all the rest of it. If he extended his readings a bit wider he would find that these allegations are made against all sorts of countries in the world. He mentioned that there have been some things going on in trade unions. I do not know whether I am supposed to do something about that or not. The fact is that, as I have said, no complaints have been made to me by any of the people on the trip. If I am going to chase up every newspaper report on this or anything else then I repeat that I am not going to be doing very much else. 
If  Senator Greenwood  were consistent he would say that we should do something about every newspaper report that we get about members of Parliament; we should go to the Government or go to the relevant authority. There was a newspaper allegation recently- I repeat allegationthat there was a theft in one of the capital cities of Australia from a member of the staff of one of our senior Ministers and it is alleged that that was organised by  Mr Wentworth  and  Senator Greenwood.  Do you expect that I have got to do something about that or that some other Minister should do something about it? Does  Senator Greenwood  say that that is fact? How ridiculous can all this be! Of course everybody knows that it is technically possible to tap phones in every part of the world. Quite frankly, if any experienced person today does not watch where he says things and what he does in overseas countries, or indeed in this country, then he is living in a very naive world. Because I believe it is a part of my job to be tremendously discreet, anything I want to talk about I talk about in my own Embassy in whatever country of the world I am in. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria)-I rise to make a personal explanation,  Mr President.  I have been misrepresented.  Senator Willesee  in the course of his speech said that it was alleged that I was guilty of a criminal act. 
I did not say that at all. 

 - Senator Sim, in a very negative way, puts his question in relation to what can be done about the Paris Accords. One could take the same negative attitude in relation to the Middle East. We have tried to convey to all those people who might have some leverage in the Vietnamese situation that not sufficient energy is being shown on all sides and by all those people who may have some influence to bring about peace in that area. 
-We have really covered the globe with that question. It contains comparisons, accusations and suggestions. I will refer the first part of the question, which concerns the Australian Capital Territory, to the Minister for the Capital Territory whom I represent here. I do not think the accusations really come within the Minister's administration. The first part of the question regarding housing in the A.C.T. I will refer to the Minister. 
-Yesterday I did not touch on this aspect of the situation in Cyprus. There is no doubt where we stand on this matter. In spite of all that has gone on in Cyprus, we regard the Cyprus Government itself as the legitimate Government of the Republic and Archbishop Makarios as the head of that Government. 
Pursuant to secdon 7(7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1 973- 1 974 1 table the following documents: - 
A determination by the Remuneration Tribunal of the remuneration payable to the person retained to conduct the independent  inquiry to determine the fees for medical benefit purposes, the Executive Member of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and the Director of the Legislative Drafting Institute; 
A determination by the Remuneration Tribunal of the remuneration payable to the Fire Commissioner in the Australian Capital Territory and to the  Chairman  and members of the Aboriginal Loans Commission; 
A determination by the Remuneration Tribunal relating to positions in the Health Insurance Commission, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the Law Reform Commission and the Social Welfare Commission. 
Each of the 3 determinations is followed by an explanatory statement issued by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
-No, it has not. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interdepartmental report on Australian library based information service. 
Pursuant to section 7(7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974 I present the Remuneration Tribunal's determination of 10 February 1975 dealing with the Interim Australian Science and Technology Council. 
-Senator Greenwood has been here long enough to know that discussions with other governments are always confidential. 
The answer is, none. 
-I am not aware of the circumstances. I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
-I do not remember whether  Mr Whitlam  made that statement. I am sure that it was the hope of the world at that time that the Paris Peace Accords did herald some peace in Vietnam. Whether I shared the view of the Prime Minister at the time is a matter of opinion. I certainly hoped at the time that the Accords would bring peace in Vietnam. Together with everybody else who has an interest in Vietnam I am bitterly disappointed. All I say now is that what ought to be done and what the Labor Party has been advocating for the last 10 years is, even at this late stage, to get the parties to the negotiating table. 
-I did see those statements while I was overseas. I was very surprised and slightly upset at the possibility that there was some truth in them. Of course there was not. I would have been upset because in a letter which was written in September 1973 by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs to  Mr Snedden  there was a direct instruction. I will quote the last sentence. He said: 
I remain willing to arrange for briefings to be given either to you or to  Mr Peacock  by officers of my Department on specific subjects of interest to you. 
-Yes. There is no problem about that; I can table the whole letter. The letter requested access to documents. The Minister could not agree to that request but he agreed to this course being followed. From time to time the Liberal Party has asked for briefings of its committees and as far as I know this has never been refused. There has never been a request by these gentlemen to me, to my office or to my Department, except that yesterday  Mr Peacock  for the first time- I reiterate for the first time- made a request to my Department. 
If the Liberal Party does lack knowledge on foreign affairs it is not the fault of this Government or my Department. We stand ready to brief Liberal Party members up to certain levels. The only things that could be protected would be those things which obviously needed protecting, such as confidential information passing between governments or something of that sort. A background briefing, similar to that which is given to both Parties through their foreign affairs committees, can be given to these two gentlemen any time they request it. All I can say is that if these gentlemen made this statement they must have been mistaken in some way- or they have been misreported- because, as I read it, it was an untruthful statement. 
I am sorry that my friend,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  started on a false premise by saying that we have never complained about this. For a long time, the Government has expressed its concern, at the failure of both the North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese governments to implement fully the provisions of the Paris Accords. In recent weeks the Government has expressed concern directly to the North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese governments. On 13 March the Prime Minister wrote to both  President  Thieu and the Foreign Minister of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam,  Mr Trinh,  to express the Government's concern at the continued fighting in South Vietnam. He expressed the Government's hope that it would soon be possible for the parties to the conflict to resume working together within the framework of the Paris agreements or under new arrangements towards a peaceful and enduring settle.ment in Vietnam, and that the parties to the conflict would so act as to enable the violence that was causing so much suffering to be reduced and, as soon as possible, brought to an end. On 3 April the Prime Minister instructed our ambassadors in Saigon and Hanoi that these views be expressed again to appropriate senior officials of South Vietnam and North Vietnam. 
There can be no denying that recently there have been serious violations of military provisions of the Paris agreements. There have been a number of violations in the past by both sides. This cannot be condoned, but there have also been serious breaches of the political provisions of the Paris agreements, notably with regard to the setting up of the National Council of National Reconciliation and Concord and the reunification of Vietnam. The violations and breaches of the military provisions cannot be considered in isolation from the violations and breaches of the political provisions; nor do onesided condemnations promote an end to the fighting and a permanent peace. The Australian Government believes that what is required is not just an end to the fighting, important though that is. What is also required- the 2 things go together in reality as well as in the Paris agreements- is a genuine commitment in Vietnam to implement the political provisions of the Paris agreements. 
The only other thing I would say to  Senator Drake-Brockman  is that, as he knows, we have had aid programs for some time to both the North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese governments, but the aid to the South has outweighed by many times the aid to the North. Therefore, the suggestion that we have been anti-South Vietnam in this case, as well as in other cases,,is just not true. 
I do not remember. I certainly have never claimed to have any great or undue influence with any government throughout the world. I think we play our part the best way we can. On several occasions in this chamber I have answered questions concerning the breaches, and on every occasion I have said that there have been breaches by both sides. Our attitude to Vietnam is perfectly well known both here and in the international community. 
While I was overseas I saw that  Dr Cairns  had made a comment on the situation in Vietnam. In speaking on these matters  Dr Cairns  speaks only on his own behalf. 
-I have been asked a question and I have answered it. Some honourable senators do not seem to agree with the answer but I cannot help that.  Dr Cairns  speaks as a private individual on these matters. There is nothing I could say, as Foreign Minister, that would help the situation in Vietnam today. When I look at the efforts of the people who are now in Opposition and at what they achieved in Vietnam and what we are attempting to achieve today, I think they should go very quietly. 
-The honourable senator has asked several questions. Perhaps this is happening because he has been appointed to our aid advisory body. The United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees launched an appeal and we contributed firstly $ 1 m and then a second $lm of which a fair amount will be taken up in freight. Freight is a costly part of this business and is a problem. 
Incidentally, after the first Sim was given the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees rang our office in Geneva to thank us for it. I missed him by a few minutes as he was leaving for Rome. As regards the lifting of the goods that have been given, they are being stored in Sydney free of charge and we are going to lift them as space is available. I think honourable senators know that an aircraft was to leave yesterday to take some aid and to collect some orphans but because of a decision by the South Vietnamese Government the flight was cancelled. Now we are trying to find out what exactly is the South Vietnamese Government's position in regard to allowing orphans to leave that country. We are not yet sure of the position. We have seen a newspaper report on the situation but at the time of coming into this place we did not have confirmation of it. The Department and the aid agency have got in touch with the general body that handles aid.  Senator Davidson  would know it as well as I. This body handles the general crowd, gets agencies together and tries to organise these things. 
Yes, the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. The Department is combining with the several people that are under the wing of that organisation in order to try to get some order into the whole situation. Then, in collaboration with the people in Vietnam we will take from the goods the things most urgently needed, such as drugs and so on. 
-No, I had not heard of that broadcast. 
I thank  Senator Marriott  for his interjection. I hope it is a fairy tale. I hope there is nothing serious in it. Certainly nobody from Australia will get any aid from this Government to go to Vietnam to fight on either side. 
-There is a continual review. That is what the Department is for. Everything that ever happens is another ingredient, another input, into the situation. I have not ordered any special review because of current events with the idea of publishing a document or anything like that. There is a continuing review which never ceases. 
-I am not aware that during the 16 months prior to the writing of these letters we made any written submissions to North Vietnam, but we have made very clear on many occasions- I have done so in this place, at international forums and in all sorts of placesthat what we wanted was to get the parties to the conference table. We hoped that the Paris agreements would have been the way to get them there. In all the years that the present Opposition was in Government it did the opposite. It never once tried to take the parties to the peace table. All it did was to blow the war up. We are asked what we have done about taking the matter to the United Nations. The Opposition had years in which to take it to the United Nations but it never showed any interest in doing so. Its efforts in Vietnam left 400 Australians dead and 2400 Australians wounded. That is something that we tried to stop. 
-The question of permitting refugees from Vietnam or Cambodia to enter Australia temporarily on humanitarian grounds is being examined by the Government in the light of all the factors of the situations. The Senate will be aware that it is at present very difficult to obtain exit visas from Saigon. The Opposition is apparently seeking to stampede the Government into a hasty decision on this matter. The strong restrictions imposed by the Government of the Republic of Vietnam on the issuing of exit visas are still in full force. An announcement of the Government's decision in this matter will be the result of the most thorough consideration of all the factors and options which are relevant. The Government has demonstrated its goodwill and its appreciation of the humanitarian considerations involved through its decision to permit Cambodian and Vietnamese students in Australia to remain here until peace is restored. That decision already covers 520 people. There is no immediate urgency in these cases. It is not just a simple matter. We will be studying the situation very carefully to see how best to handle it. 
Where? 
-That will certainly be part of the study. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
My attention has been invited to the  press  reports  to  which the honourable senator refers. The motion moved and carried in the House of Assembly on 25 February was that the term of office of present members of the House be extended by one year to 1977. The Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  spoke against the motion, which is not binding on the Government of Papua New Guinea. The motion will not affect the date of independence which will be decided by the House of Assembly in accordance with a resolution of the House of 9 July 1 974 which provided: 
That Papua New Guinea do move to independent nation status as soon as practicable after a constitution has been enacted by this House and that any proposed date for independence is to be endorsed by this House. 
The current legislation governing the holding of elections in Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1974. This provides for the High Commissioner of Papua New Guinea to direct at any time the holding of a general election but that general elections shall be held at intervals not exceeding four years. The last general election was held in March/ April 1972. 
Until independence, an extension of the period beyond four years would require the approval of the Australian Government and an amendment of the Australian Act. 
After independence, the Papua New Guinea Act will not apply and elections will be held in accordance with the provisions of the Papua New Guinea Constitution, the terms of which are currently being debated by the House of Assembly. 
I present for the information of honourable senators the reports on: Sheets and plates of iron or steel, dated 1 2 February 1975; spectacles, sunglasses, goggles and frames, etc., dated 18 February 1975; and precision ground steel ball bearings, dated 4 March 1975, of the Temporary Assistance Authority in accordance with section 30(2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973. 
An article in the 'Sun' of 5 April along the lines mentioned by  Senator Poyser  was drawn to my attention. Perhaps I should mention the steps that have been taken and also give the dates to show that the situation is quite the opposite to what has been suggested. On 1 April our Ambassador in Saigon sought approval to send a warning letter to all non-official Australians- by non-official Australians we mean those not working in an embassy- and to move all Embassy dependants and the remaining aid experts out of South Vietnam by the end of the week. The Department sought clarification of some aspects of his proposals and on 3 April our Ambassador again sought this approval. The Prime Minister approved the evacuation on the basis of all the information available to the Government, including the recommendaton and decisions of other countries to evacuate their dependants from Saigon. The Ambassador has not spoken recently to  Mr Wilson,  the author of the report, and has advised that neither he nor to his knowledge his staff has made any statement along the lines reported. On 4 April the Government took advantage of excess capacity on the Qantas 747 charter flight which was flying orphans to Australia to move 30 Embassy dependants and aid personnel out of Saigon. We do not think there is any immediate danger to personnel in Saigon at the moment but, of course, as in the case in Cambodia, we will keep the situation under close control. We will move Embassy staff and give warnings to other Australians there in the light of the situation. 
-I have seen Press reports on this matter. We will get our own assessment of it. I would say that anything to do with the Indian Ocean is generally very much overwritten by the Press on either side, so I am always very cautious of Press reports on it. We are already making investigations as to the accuracy of the report. 
In dealing with this matter yesterday I said that there had been breaches by both sides, and I think that is undeniably true. It would appear on looking back that neither side was very anxious to implement these Paris Agreements, which was very unfortunate because the Agreements, I think, raised the hopes of the world at that stage and now we find them in ashes. As I also said yesterday, I do not see at this stage that it is at all helpful to be apportioning blame or to be looking back over the dreadful years that we have gone through - 
I am answering the question and telling the honourable senator the position as I see it. In respect of the Prime Minister the honourable senator is referring to a debate which took place yesterday, which I think is quite a different thing from answering questions and trying to outline what the situation is today. It was a general debate yesterday. In answering questions I do not think it is going to be any help to apportion blame. What we all ought to be trying to do still, even at this late stage, and what the Labor Party has been trying to do all these years is to get the parties down to the negotiating table. 
-Senator Carrick took one statement by  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew and did not say when it was made.  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew also has said that he does not accept the domino theory, and he did not send any troops into the Vietnam war at any stage.  Senator Carrick  extends remarks. All I remember saying yesterday was in reply to a question by  Senator Baume  who had asked whether we were making a survey of what may be a new situation because of what may happen in Cambodia and South Vietnam. I said at the time that the Department of Foreign Affairs is making surveys continually. The Department does not wait for something to happen, it anticipates. A very shaky situation has been anticipated in all the Indo-China states, although it has settled down now in Laos and we hope that situation continues. All those things are taken into consideration all the time. There is always an ever-changing scene. We have not said that the present situation makes absolutely no difference. We say that there is a continually changing situation all the time and that this situation has been anticipated for some time. 
The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  moved a motion which is based on a complete untruth. He went on to talk about duplicity in other people. He wandered a long way from his motion, as well he might. He made his usual bitter and personal attack. He followed his usual course of moving right away from the subject matter that he introduced. I regret that he has done so. I regret that he does it at times. I think debates can take place in the chamber without bitterness and without personal attacks. But,  Senator Withers  seems quite incapable of doing so or does not want to do so. One of the things he says is: 'How can one trust  Mr Whitlam?'  Then he says: 'If you let our man,  Mr Fraser,  have a look at the cables he will not say what is in them- he will not say whether they are the same or whether they are different.' How could we trust  Mr Fraser  to handle a thing like that?  Senator Withers  makes a suggestion about not trusting our Leader. I throw it back in his teeth. What would  Mr Fraser  do? He could say that because there was an 'and' instead of an 'or' the cable was different. 
Let us have a look at one or two things before getting on to the main theme.  Senator Withers  talks about duplicity, witch hunting and all the rest of it. No witch hunting is going on. There is no denial of the cables. The situation was completely exploded this morning, but unfortunately  Senator Withers  had already written his speech before he heard the reply this morning. 
If the honourable senator will wait a moment I will quote what was said to him. Very obviously he has read the remarks and is embarrassed about them. I feel sorry for him. If he had not jumped in so soon he would not have had to make the personal and bitter attacks that he has made. In the House of Representatives this morning, following the allegations of  Mr Peacock  yesterday, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made it quite clear that there was no question of a release of the cables which  Mr Peacock  referred to in his speech yesterday afternoon and the standard practice that messages between governments should remain confidential would be observed in this case. Naturally, cables giving instructions for the delivery of these messages and cables reporting these messages are covered by the same necessity for confidentiality. Let me quote what  Mr Peacock  said: 
I submit that on the third of this month a cable went to Saigon stressing that the Paris Accords be implemented and that in particular article 4, chapter 12, be implemented. This deals with the establishment of the National Council for National Reconciliation and Concord. I submit further that probably on that day or on 4 April a cable, initially couched in similar terms, went to Hanoi but that that cable which would have been received on either 3 April or 4 April in North Vietnam went on to refer to the activities in South Vietnam being inspired by the Provisional Revolutionary Government. 
A little later  Mr Peacock  continued: 
I submit that further on in this cable words to this effect are used: 'We understand that for public relations purposes it has to be said that pressure is being applied to the Saigon Government to get it to implement the Paris Accords'. I challenge the Government to produce the documentation and to reveal the cables that were sent on the third and fourth of this month. 
A number of things are quite clear from these statements of  Mr Peacock.  The first is that he has not seen the cables or, if he has, his memory of them is very muddy. Cables were sent to North Vietnam and South Vietnam as a follow-up to the Prime Minister's letters to the  President  of South Vietnam and to the Foreign Minister of North Vietnam, both of which were sent on 13 March 1975. The purported quotation from the cable is just plain wrong. I have seen the cables. There is not one atom of truth - 
-The honourable senator knows perfectly well why  Mr Peacock  will not see them. I have seen them. 
Yes, the honourable senator knows all right because he knows perfectly well that we have developed a reputation internationally which his Government lacked. We have done so on the ground of integrity. We are respected throughout the world today, which is a position the honourable senator's Government never achieved. I have seen these cables. I say that those words did not appear in those cables. I have read them before and I have read them again this morning. The statements that have been made are quite untrue. 
I think it is worth while at this stage to make some general remarks about the tactics in which the Opposition is at present indulging. Opposition members allege the existence of a Government document- I stress 'allege'- and then they let loose their imagination as to the contents of such a document. Opposition members stand up in Parliament, give voice to their imaginings and then demand that the Government produces the document in order to verify or disprove the allegations they have dreamed up. It is clear that were the Government to submit to these quite irresponsible demands there would be no such thing as a confidential document. I am sure that every citizen recognises that there is a necessity for confidentiality in a whole range of government documents. Personal details and records involving matters such as taxation and health are obvious cases. In my own area of foreign affairs it is equally clear that the continuing conduct of diplomatic exchanges between governments requires confidentiality and a mutual trust between governments that confidentiality will be preserved by the other parties. I will not in any way indulge the irresponsible demands of the Opposition by breaching the confidentiality which promotes and sustains the very necessary exchange of messages and information between governments. I believe that is more important than even the internal demands of a country. 
I have mentioned the steps and action taken to impress on both sides of the Vietnam conflict our wish that the Paris Agreement should be adhered to and that violence should cease which is a subject which  Senator Withers  very carefully avoided. Not once did he say that he wanted to see the fighting cease. It was his Government which sustained the fighting and sent people to Vietnam to die. I should point out particularly, in view of the terms of this urgency motion concerning alleged Australian approval for the North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam, that the Australian Government has specifically deplored the fighting in South Vietnam and has made it clear to both sides that it does not regard blame as lying with only one of them. In particular, the Australian Government has made it quite clear to the North Vietnamese Government that it does not condone the military actions of the North Vietnamese which are designed to put pressure on the South Vietnamese. This motion draws to public attention once again the difference in attitude to the Vietnamese conflict between the Government and the Opposition. The Opposition is for killing; we are for peace. That is the difference. The Opposition is still living in the days of the cold war. I will repeat that because it is the basis of the Opposition's whole problem in foreign affairs: The Opposition is still living in the cold war. The Opposition believes that all communists are bad and all anticommunists are good. 
-Senator Withers said hear, hear! '. 
-Senator Withers said hear, hear! ' He believes all communists are bad but ipso facto if you are anti-communist you are good. It is the first time I have heard the Opposition say I am good, because I am not a communist. The Opposition believes that in any conflict all blame attaches to the communist side and no blame could attach to the anti-communist side. The Opposition sees complex situations in simplistic black and white- in such terms. The Government, on the other hand, appreciates that in any war and particularly a war that, for instance, sets Vietnamese against Vietnamese, is bound to be complex and will defy the type of simple and simplistic interpretation that the Opposition attempts to place on it. 
The present Australian Government has brought Australia into contact with the present realities of the world. On the other hand, the Opposition would have Australia return to believing the discredited fantasies of the past. What the Opposition did, when it was in government, was to take a very simplistic approach. It took the approach that if it was communist everything was wrong and if it was anti-communist it was not wrong. This came out time and again. I do not know why the term 'even handedness' has come into the Australian situation because if we had started to reverse those policies we would have made the same mistake in reverse. We would have returned to a period of cold war. The great thing about the lifting of the cold war is that it suits countries such as Australia and the middle and lesser powers. It gives them more manoeuvrability. Detente, that is moving away from the cold war, does not mean that we are safe for all time. It does mean a very much better situation than the situation we are in.  Senator Withers  has attempted throughout to tell the same old story- North Vietnam was wrong on everything and South Vietnam was never wrong. We have said all the time that both sides have been wrong. An honourable senator interjected this morning that  Mr Whitlam  never blamed Hanoi. I notice that in  Mr Whitlam  's speech yesterday he said very definitely: 'We do not condone the activities of Hanoi'. The letters which went to both North Vietnam and South Vietnam were an effort to put the situation into perspective and to move to the negotiating table. 
The Opposition has said that we have not asked for the Paris talks to re-open. Certainly we have not. We are not a party to them and from talks with other people around the world it appeared quite useless to re-open them. When the United States of America wanted to take this dispute to the United Nations it was the previous Liberal-Country Party Government which discouraged it from doing so. It may be that it had its reasons for doing that. It may be that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government thought the United Nations would have no effect on the situation, but the fact is that the present Opposition did work against the United Nations on that occasion. 
-No, the United Nations has not. What happened was that the Americans in 1 966, 1 think- I might be one year out- put the matter before the Security Council. The present Opposition opposed it at the time and, in the terms of the United Nations, 'it remains seized with it '. I think it is a great pity that the United Nations was not involved in the first place. I think it is a great pity that the previous Government opposed the United States trying to bring the United Nations into the dispute. The South Vietnamese Government has consistently refused to implement the political provisions of the Paris agreements of January 1973. That is more than 2 years before this present level of fighting came about. It might have said: 'We will not do this while the North Vietnamese are doing that'. It is very hard to apportion blame. It is very hard to sit back in moral judgment when people are at war. But it is no use taking the attitude that the Opposition takes that the whole of the blame is on one side and not on the other. We have always endeavoured to try to get to a negotiating position. It is no good saying that it will not work. It is working at least at present in Laos. Who would ever have thought that one could get the people from the jungle, the Pathet Lao, who are communists and therefore very bad people in the eyes of the Opposition, to form a Cabinet in Laos as they have done. I have talked to these people overseas and they have absolutely amazed me. they have said to me and to other people around the world: 'We are going to make this work'. On one occasion I said to the anti-Pathet Lao people, the anti-communists: 'It seems to me that in your Cabinet you have given away a lot of the important portfolios'. It was pointed out to me that portfolios in their countries take on different connotations to our own. I was told: 'You are not quite right because we have very important ones as well. This is a compromise and if we are to get peace in our country it must be a genuine compromise. We must tell the communists that we are meeting them on equal terms'. If this can happen in Laos, why not elsewhere?  Senator Withers  thinks it is terrible. He is laughing about it. 
It has happened in Laos and will the Opposition not thank God that for the moment it is working. The Opposition does not want it to work, I know, because it wants to continue the war. The Opposition has never said it wanted the Vietnam fighting to end, unless it ended in one way. The Opposition said that the Government has always made clear its opposition to only one side. We have always made clear our opposition to all great power interference in Indo-China. The Prime Minister's statement yesterday was not the first reference. The Prime Minister said the same thing in Vientiane on 4 February 1974. It was just one of the references. Why do honourable senators opposite keep stating these untruths, saying things that are just not facts? I would be the happiest person in the world if honourable senators opposite approached foreign affairs matters with a view to making constructive criticism of the Government and suggesting something that we might do, particularly in these fields of war, instead of trying to hang their hats on all sorts of pegs. 
The tenor of debate on this matter has changed during the week. In the criticisms made by  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Peacock  and in the questions asked yesterday- and I got quite a lot of attention yesterday from my friends in the Opposition- there was a different line of attack from that adopted today. Yesterday, honourable senators were saying such things as that we were not early enough in the field, that aid was not good enough, that we would not bring out the refugees, and all the rest of it. Now that those questions have been answered- and answered very effectively- honourable senators have got on to the matter of phoney cables. I have just jotted down some figures on the matter of aid. 
-Senator Young says that there was a lot of public pressure and that we took a long time to get into this. 
Do not talk such absolute rot. 
We were one of the first into the field. Look at what we have done. We have 6 aeroplanes operating there now, and they were there within 18 hours of being instructed to go. That order was given within hours of getting the aeroplanes. Why do honourable senators think that the Americans, and Admiral Gayler in particular, have cabled us congratulating us? Honourable senators just do not want to listen to the facts. Do honourable senators opposite remember what they did after the Tet offensive? Do they remember how much money they put in? They raised $242,000 and added to it another sum that they took, and they put in $487,000 following that offensive. We have already put in $3,250,000, as well as 6 aeroplanes. 
-Senator Young says that, because of inflation, $242,000 is a lot more than $3,250,000. How can one reason with people who have that sort of intellect? How can one reason when statements like that are made? We have moved in on the United Nations Children's Fund side, we have given money to the Red Cross, we have contacted the refugee people and we have given special allowances. And I point out that none of these moneys provided are final payments. One of the good things about criticism made in Australia in relation to aid is that people always criticise the Government for not giving enough. I would far rather have that criticism from the Australian people than criticism that we were giving too much. I do not mind at all criticism that we are not giving enough. 
One thing that honourable senators must always realise is that the first sum is generally only a down-payment. If my memory of the figures is correct, the first amount of money we gave to Bangladesh was $15,000 but the bill today is about $15m, and it will get higher because Bangladesh is one of those countries that must have outside help. So even the figures I give now will not necessarily be the final figures. Even the $3,250,000, compared to the $487,000 given by honourable senators opposite, will not necessarily be the lot. As I say, there were 6 aeroplanes operating in the field immediately, and they are still working, and working hard. Instead of the Royal Australian Air Force being criticised, it should be receiving the thanks and admiration of all honourable senators. Already we have told 570 students that they do not have to return to their country. Already we have got out one plane-load of orphans, and there is another one on its way. Already we have arranged with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid- the people who arrange voluntary aid- to help them to get their stuff into the country. What other country has done more? What other country has moved more quickly in providing help? What more do honourable senators want this Government to do? If honourable senators have any constructive suggestions to make, I would love to hear them, instead of hearing this carping and going on, with honourable senators trying to pull our achievements down. 
-That is the sort of inane interjection I would expect to hear from the Liberal Party when we are talking about a war and people are dying. As I say, the debate has swung right around from those things which honourable senators opposite were going to build up. Yet if they had listened to the Labor Party, if they had done as a government what we wanted to do, then they would probably have had this war at an end by now instead of feeding it the way they did during all those years. 
Honourable senators opposite never even acted as a friend of the Americans. They took a position. Time and time again we stated that when they had allies like Great Britain and America they ought not to be just genuflecting and following the mistakes made by those countries, and that in this area of the world where Australia had authority and a greater knowledge it ought to have been saying to those countries that they were doing the wrong thing. Honourable senators opposite did the very opposite. Even when the United States wanted to take the problem to the Security Council Opposition senators opposed that move. It is very interesting to see the way in which this change has been made. What honourable senators opposite ought to be doing even at this late stage is joining their voices with ours in trying to get both of these countries and Cambodia, which is getting not as much attention because of the Vietnam situation, to the conference table. 
When we assumed office in 1972 the fighting had been going on for 30 years in Vietnam and for about 3 years in Cambodia. What was the effort of honourable senators opposite during all those years to avert those tragedies? They did absolutely nothing but stand back and condemn one side- even though they could see that this was dragging them further into the morass. They painted themselves into a corner because of their attitude on foreign affairs of taking the simplistic approach:' Well, if it has a taint of communism at all it is wrong, and if it is not it is absolutely right'. Because they painted themselves into this corner they could not break out of it to do anything about the matter. 
Not only did honourable senator's opposite do nothing about it; they also exacerbated the situation. They had Australian forces in Vietnam and they provided Vietnam and Cambodia with military supplies and training. Liberal-Country Party governments claimed that they were realists, that they were shoring up the balance of power and that they were helpng to prevent the dominoes from falling. But in truth they were not realists at all. They wildly exaggerated ideas of Australia's interests and influence in Vietnam and Cambodia. Nor did they help to shore up the balance of power- even assuming for the moment that that concept has validity and meaning in Indo-China. All that happened was that even more arms came in to the other side, and eventually the United States of America withdrew its enormous forces from the area. Nor did honourable senators opposite help to prevent their socalled dominoes from falling- again assuming for the moment that that was a necessary or possible end of the policy, because it was the war in Vietnam in which their Liberal-Country Party governments were participating so enthusiastically which, by being spread into Cambodia, caused that country to be brought to its present situation. 
What a contrast that is to the policies and actions of the present Australian Government. They are consistent policies that we always advocated while we were in opposition. We have been the realists and the compassionate people in the whole affair. We took the single most important step open to Australia, which was to see to it that, even if as an outside power with limited influence we could not stop the fighting, at least we would not contribute to it. It was for that reason that the present Government, immediately on assuming office, removed the remaining Australian forces from Vietnam and ended the provision to Vietnam and Cambodia of military supplies and training. Nothing could have been more realistic or more humane. There was a stupidity going on, when we became the Government, of pouring weapons into an area which was absolutely saturated with weapons and of believing that in some way this was going to contribute to peace. We did not even stop there. Although Australia was not, and could not be, a party principal, and while we recognised that an enduring and satisfactory settlement was for the Vietnamese and the Cambodian parties themselves to work out, we did what was possible to assist the parties to that end. Thus, in respect of Cambodia, this Government initiated and consistently followed 3 intertwining strands of policy. Firstly, the Australian Government took the position that the Cambodian people should be left to determine their own future free from any external interference. Secondly, the Australian Government was willing to do all in its power to bring the hostilities to an end. Thirdly, the Australian Government eschewed all action which would have had the effect of prolonging those hostilities through military or economic support for one side. 
One of the first things I did when I became Foreign Minister was to have a long talk with  Mr Marshall  Green, lasting over a couple of hours. I remember clearly that a half to three-quarters of an hour of that time was spent on the whole question of Cambodia. We talked it over from all angles, and I made the point that, although I realised the very delicate situation, here was a war being strutted up from 2 sides. When I was at the United Nations last year the ANZUS-plus group came to me and asked whether we would support it in its initiatives and the voting in the General Assembly so that there would be some initiatives on Cambodia. I immediately altered what we were about to do and backed that situation. I will not follow the votes through, because I have already explained them in this chamber. 
When I returned to Australia the ASEAN group again waited on me and asked whether Australia would co-sponsor the resolution. Again we agreed to that. Both  Mr Whitlam  and I raised the matter with  Dr Kissinger  when we were having talks with him. Even when Lon Nol, about last August, if I remember rightly, put out an appeal in which he said he was prepared to talk with the other side without conditions, we again backed that and conveyed through our contacts with GRUNK- the Government Royle UnifieNationale du Khmer- in Peking that we were drawing this to their attention and that it was the sort of thing we had been urging Lon Nol to do all along. At every stage and in every way we could in the Cambodian situation we have done everything possible, and we have done it over the couple of years we have been able to do it. We have tried to do it in the Vietnamese situation. We have said that outside interference from all sides in Vietnam should cease. We have gone on record, even lately when the fighting has been heavy. The Prime Minister, acting in my absence, wrote again in these cables that some people are trying to drag into the mire today. This is a positive approach as distinct from the negative approach of the Opposition- Opposition senators may not think it was negativewhich was to send troops into the situation. 
In implementing these policies we were completely realistic in recognising that if we were to be able to have any influence at all we must be able to talk to both sides. That is a rather obvious consideration but one which had entirely escaped the frozen minds of the previous succession of Liberal-Country Party governments. 
We are criticised when we say we make contact with the other side, but when there is a fighting situation such as there is in so many countries of the world today- not the old wars that we grew up with, where half the world was on one side and almost half on the other- where we have wars of liberation, and where we see guerrilla movements, it is quite impossible to be blaming one side and not talking to the other, isolating it, and driving it into a corner. Time and time again this Government has followed this even policy, and it is what previous governments did not do. 
It is most strange to me that the Opposition should be attacking the Government on anything to do with Vietnam and Cambodia. Its record was wrong. The LCP Government put troops in and had to pull them out. Our record is one of trying to bring about peace, and our record now is of doing everything possible on a humanitarian scale, and still, with the limited influence we have in this area, trying to bring these people to the conference table. Today the things we have said, with orphans having come to this country, with students already here, with aeroplanes involved, with nearly $3,500,000 already spent in South Vietnam aid, are in sharp contrast with the bitter sort of speech we heard from  Senator Withers  and with the record of the Opposition in Vietnam of 425 Australian people dead and 2400 wounded. 
-It did not require an answer. It informed both sides, North Vietnam and South Vietnam, that we wanted to see the Paris Peace Accords carried out by both sides. It was a declaration of our intentions and an effort, vain though it may have been, to have something achieved. It did not require an answer. We have not had an answer from North Vietnam, nor have we had an answer from South Vietnam. 
-No, there is no truth whatsoever in any suggestion about a protest from North Vietnam. I thought our attitude had been very clear from the beginning. We have made it very clear that we are giving humanitarian aid to civilians in Vietnam. We have explained our attitude to North Vietnam- to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. There has been no formal protest from Hanoi. We are concerned not to be involved in military activities in South Vietnam, and so will not carry soldiers in Royal Australian Air Force aircraft. I do not think anyone would suggest that we should. This is not a Dunkirk operation. Australia has no military allies in Indo-China. We are seeking to relieve suffering and to promote rehabilitation in Indo-China. We have spent millions for these purposes. As I said last night, our record is second to none in this regard. 
The allegation that we have scaled down activities is therefore quite incorrect. The RAAF aircraft have undertaken all suitable tasks requested of them against the background of the Government's policy. The only note or the only suggestion we have had from Vietnam is that, although the authorities there have not protested to us, they have said to us that they are very surprised that we are carrying out the activities we are engaged in. We are not taking any notice of that at all. We are continuing with the humanitarian activities in South Vietnam. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 )  Mr P.  Pigott  (Chairman) Company Director, Sydney. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report on paper of the Temporary Assistance Authority dated 11 March 1975. 
I am not aware of any assertions such as that referred to by the honourable senator. The honourable senator is asking me for an opinion. The second thing I would say- I have said it several times in this place- is that our aim in North Vietnam and South Vietnam is not to exacerbate the situation, which is exactly what  Senator Drake-Brockman's  question is trying to do. I have said several times that I do not know of anything I can say in these circumstances. Our aim is certainly not to apportion blame or to try to iron out what has happened during 30 years of fighting. Our aim all the time is to give all the humanitarian assistance that we can give and- this must be the tenth time that I have said this- if it is at all possible, even at this late stage, to get the fighting parties to the negotiating table. 
The exact troop deployment would not normally be given to me unless I asked for it. It is a matter mainly for the Department of Defence. In the present situation I do not think there is any denial that North Vietnamese troops are fighting in South Vietnam. Of course they are. I do not get the thrust of that part of the question at all. 
-I resent the last part of  Senator Laucke  's question. Knowing the gentle nature of the honourable senator I am surprised that he asked such a question. I will ignore it. The honourable senator is aware that no one in this Parliament, on either side, would condone such acts. I reject and resent his question. I am surprised that he asked it and I think that he will regret doing so after he has thought about it a little. We are being asked whether we have protested to North Vietnam about this, that or something else. We have made a general protest to North Vietnam. Nobody- even the most biased persons within the Opposition, if they searched their hearts- would believe that we would condone the war or the activities of either side at any stage. What the Government has done is quite contrary to what the Opposition did when in government. The Government has endeavoured to stop the war and not to exacerbate the situation. 

 - Senator Greenwood interjects and says that we did not protest about the executions. No, we did not. If we were to protest day after day to both sides we would be doing nothing else. We would be doing something no other government would be doing and we would be making a laughing stock of ourselves. It is something we have not done. No government has moved as rapidly as we have to try to do something about the humanitarian aspect. What would the Opposition do in these circumstances? The circumstances in North Vietnam and South Vietnam, as the American  President  or a leading person in America has saidare such that there is nothing any nation can do except to use some moral persuasion to try to stop the fighting. What would the Opposition have done? I do not think it would have done as much as the Government has done on the humanitarian side. I repeat, as I have done time and time again, that if honourable senators opposite had not taken the action they took there would not have been these executions in Vietnam today. 
I am not quite certain if that is true, but I will certainly find out. I was looking at this matter yesterday or the day before. I do know that the speed with which Royal Australian Air Force aircraft got into action was really amazing. They were there within 1 8 hours of being tasked, and the tasking started within only a few hours of their being asked. I think all praise is due to the RAAF for the speed with which it moved into action. 
-I am sorry if  Senator Young  seems to think that the RAAF has fallen down in this case. There was never any doubt that we would give humanitarian aid. I do not think it is correct that we started giving aid in accordance with the timing suggested by the honourable senator. I do know that we have already had thanks from the American Ambassador in Australia and a special telegram from Admiral Noel Gayler in Honolulu thanking us for the speed and efficiency with which we worked in Da Nang. 
There is a war on, and all sorts of terrible things are going to happen. The only way we will stop them is to stop the fighting. I am sorry to see a young senator such as  Senator Chaney  fall into these traps. 
-I know that  Senator Withers  would not be interested in morals, judging from the way in which he behaves in this place.  Senator Chaney  started his question by asking why there were discrepancies. As we said last night, there are no major discrepancies. As the Prime Minister pointed out, there was a reference that was not suitable to go to Hanoi and one that was not suitable to go to Saigon. If honourable senators read the Prime Minister's statement, they will see that he referred to 2 points that he was emphasising to both sides. The point that honourable senators opposite are getting at is that  Mr Peacock  made a very definite statement about the words that were in the cable to North Vietnam. I said last night that the Prime Minister had said that there is not one atom of truth in  Mr Peacock's  statement. Honourable senators should stop basing their questions on a lie. 
-There would be no Australian observers as such in those areas of South Vietnam. There may be Australian observers in the international organisations which are represented in those areas, such as the refugee organisation, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund and the Red Cross. We get our information from the people connected with those organisations. There may be Australians in those groups, but they would not be there representing the Austraiian Government. 
-There is one small inaccuracy in the question asked by  Senator Durack.  The organisation is not a cartel. 
It is not a cartel; it will not become a cartel while Australia belongs to it. Throughout the world there is more and more internationalisation of commodity situations. That will happen whether or not Australia joins in these arrangements. On the question of iron ore, it will be a decision for any government concernedthis Government as well as the governments of Venezuela, Canada and other countrieswhether it joins in such arrangements. Our decision in relation both to bauxite and iron ore has been to join. I suppose that in both cases we have been in some ways the stumbling block to the writing of the constitutions involved. We insisted that we would not be a party to the bauxite agreement unless certain provisions were written into it, one of them being the unanimity rule so that there would not be a majority decision which would in any way affect production at home. That is the one provision for which we will not stand. 
I attended the first Ministerial meeting of iron ore exporting countries in November of last year. Because of my insistence, the negotiations broke down and the officials were sent back to negotiate in Delhi to bring forward another agreement. I can provide the honourable senator and others with a copy of my speech in which I insisted that there should not be a cartel. We tried to obtain a producer- consumer body but we failed. I made it perfectly plain in my speech in Geneva recently that we would have preferred an agreement, that there must be a compromise in any international agreement, and that I hoped, as we had always said throughout the negotiations, that we would quickly establish a rapport with the consumer bodies. 
We would have expected some countries, particularly the United States of America, to be upset about the bauxite agreement. America was not upset. In fact it praised us for being a party to the agreement and said that if such arrangements were to be made it was better that they should include voices such as ours as well as those of some of the smaller countries. The same thing is happening in relation to iron ore. There has always been a tremendous insistence by Australia that there shall not be an organisation which can tell Australia, Brazil, Canada, Venezuela, Algeria, the Philippines, India or any other producer what they will do about their own iron ore production. I can assure  Senator Durack-  he will realise this if he sees my remarks- that in no way will Australia be associated with a cartel in the 2 bodies that have already been set up. 
-Specifically, I am not sure, but we made it very clear to everybody that in no way would this be a cartel and that consumers would be kept in this picture. Obviously Japan was in our minds all the time. In general discussions, particularly last November, I asserted that there could not be a body that would interfere in any way with the AustralianJapanese situation because private companies, as  Senator Durack  well knows, being a Western Australian, have long term contracts and no government would, or I think could, really interfere with a situation such as that. I am not sure whether we informed Japan specifically, but there is no doubt that the Japanese have been well informed throughout of our attitude, as would anyone else who has an interest in iron ore. 
Prior to the situation in Portuguese Timor becoming tense, because we could see the problem mounting we approached the Portuguese and the Indonesians and used what pressures or suasions we could on them, with very good results. We felt at that time that relations between Portugal and Indonesia had drifted in spite of the talks we had had, starting at the last United Nations General Assembly when I spoke to the Foreign Ministers of both countries. Because of that the Portuguese agreed to have much closer contact with the Indonesians. In turn, we pointed out to the Indonesians the Press reports mounting in Australia and the danger that this would createeven the suggestion that there might be an armed invasion.  Senator Gietzelt  is right; we believe always that a political solution is very much better than a military solution. We have said, and we have firmed this view over the last couple of months, that we would be anxious to provide assistance to Portuguese Timor, preferably with the Indonesians. This matter is being taken over now by the Aid Agency which is trying to move in and help. I believe with due modesty that Australia has played a very good role in toning down the situation that was developing in that area. 
-I hope that nobody reports to the Prime Minister that I knew and he did not know. I am not aware of what happened during question time in the other House this morning. The situation is very fluid. There is a war on and all these things are going to happen. I have quoted that was said in America. We wish that these things could be stopped. There is nothing anybody can do in this area except to bring this war to an end. 
There is no analogy between the 2 things that  Senator Greenwood  talks about. Yes, we have protested not only to those 2 countries about political prisoners but to every country where we believe people are being held without trial. That is something that I do not think  Senator Greenwood  ever did when he was Attorney-General. He may have done so but I do not remember it. We have taken a very consistent line on this matter. There is no war raging in either South Africa or Indonesia. I did not say that we would be a laughing stock over a particular incident. I said that if we started to protest at everything that happened during wartime we would be a laughing stock. Of course we would be. The moment a war breaks out moral rule and all sorts of things go out the window. That has happened in every war in history. That is why this Government, in contradistinction to the previous Government, has tried to stop the war in Vietnam and not to exacerbate it. 
On Tuesday  Senator Martin  asked me this question: 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that authorities at the North Head Quarantine Station removed identification marks on the orphans recently arrived from Vietnam? What action is the Government now taking to reidentify those orphans who were already committed to Australian families? 
The answer is as follows: 
It is true that the identifying tags were removed at the North Head Quarantine Station but only after new indestructible wrist tags as used in hospitals were placed on the wrists of the orphans. 
The action taken at the North Head Quarantine Station ensured that none of the orphans were without identity at any stage. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill enables the commemoration at the War Memorial of Australians other than members of the Services whose deaths are attributable to any war or war-like operations in which Australians have been on active service. It brings within the scope of the Australian War Memorial Act those Australians who served in the forces of other Commonwealth countries or with allied forces, those who were members of the Australian Merchant Navy or who were civilians who served with Australian Forces, e.g. Australian Red Cross, Australian Comforts Fund, Young Mens Christian Association, War Correspondents and photographers. 
The present Act restricts commemoration to members of the Services. There have been representations, particularly in respect of merchant seamen, that all Australians whose lives were lost in the course of their wartime duties should be honoured by the Memorial. 
This Bill also allows the War Memorial Board to invest available moneys to greater advantage than at present. The amendment will enable investment on fixed deposits with an approved bank, in securities of the Australian Government or any such other manner as the Treasurer approves. The investment fund has been built up over many years from the sale of war histories and other publications and it has enabled the 
Board to acquire exhibits without seeking government funds. Clauses 5 and 7 make ancillary amendments. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
No, I have never tried to withhold any information that I have thought would be of value to the Senate. I took the question the other day, as  Senator Greenwood  indicated at the end of his question, to suggest that at that stage of the fighting the only people who were in breach of the agreements were the North Vietnamese. I have said not only this year but also last year that the Paris Peace Accords have been broken by both sides, that there have been violations by both sides and there is a war in progress. I have also said that I do not see any value in apportioning blame or saying things like that at this stage. That was the whole purport of what I said. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act relating to the United States Naval Communications Station established at North West Cape in Western Australia. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a paper entitled 'Australian Aid to Developing Countries' prepared by the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
I have some information on this matter. When I use the word 'I' I shall be using it on behalf of  Mr Lionel  Bowen. 
The Returned Services League requested a Government grant of $20,000 to assist in the costs of a contingent of Gallipoli veterans attending a ceremony at Gallipoli Bay to mark the sixtieth anniversary of the landing there. The RSL was informed that while the Government appreciated that the Gallipoli campaign had a special place in the sentiments of those who took part, it had been decided that in view of all the circumstances the expenditure of public funds for this purpose was not justified. That decision was confirmed subsequently by the Prime Minister who had been approached by the RSL to review the matter. In these circumstances I do not see that any purpose would be met by further representations on the matter. I should perhaps point out that the RSL received a grant of $40,000 towards the cost of the contingent which attended ceremonies to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Gallipoli landing because that event had special significance. I do not believe that it can reasonably be regarded as a precedent for the recent application. Additionally, although it is not directly related to what the honourable senator asked, I think it concerns an analogous matter when I state that the Australian Government granted $ 1 3,000 to a contingent of veterans who fought at Retimo so that they may attend a ceremony at Stavromenos 
As I said when answering a question the other day, the only time that matter was put before the Security Council was I think, in 1966. 
-I understand what the honourable senator said. I am saying that the only time that the whole question of Indo-China went before the Security Council was in 1966 or 1967, and it has remained seized of that situation. There has been very little action, or no action except for some statements made by  Mr Kurt  Waldheim at times. As to the Paris Accords, they were not United Nations documents. They were drawn up by the various signatories and that unfortunately is the agreement whose terms have broken down. 
-I do not know that I saw the specific statement. Therefore, to a degree, this is an opinion which I should not be giving. I think from what the honourable senator has said that  Mr Renouf  was referring to the decision by the South Vietnamese to vacate a section of territory. That decision has been regarded throughout the world as a military mistake. It turned out the wrong way. 
It was a false judgment on their part which did not precede fighting in that part of the terrain but was really a withdrawal of the South Vietnamese troops. This is really an opinion of what I think  Mr Renouf  - 
I keep being asked questions about whether they are North Vietnamese or Viet Cong and whether they are fighting in South Vietnam. I come back to the point all the time that the war has been going on for 30 years. I do not think it is of any help to the chaotic situation which exists there today to try to apportion blame. If there were anything I could say which would help the situation I would say it. I refrain from saying things which I do not think will help the situation. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners of South Australia together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and maps be printed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is identical with that which was introduced into the House of Representatives on 13 November 1974 and which was passed without amendment on 25 November 1974. It was introduced into this chamber on 26 November 1974 and it was rejected on 28 November 1974. It would be idle of me to reiterate what was said in this chamber last November. I therefore confine myself to mentioning only three facets of the Bill. First, taken overall, the proposals in this Bill are intended to allow for a speedier finalisation of federal election results and to improve voting facilities for electors. Second, the Bill introduces some new or changed procedures and corrects some obvious defects in the existing electoral law. Third, it proposes consequential amendments of the Senate Elections Act 1903-1948, the Senate Elections Act 1966 and the Representation Act 1903-1973. Three months have now elapsed since the Senate rejected an identical measure which I now introduce again. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
Let me deal briefly with the last point made by  Senator Wright.  A question was asked of me this morning on this matter by  Senator Marriott,  who was good enough to give me notice of that question so that I was able to get the information for him. That is the quickest way to do it and it is handy to be able to do it in that way. I pointed out that $50,000 had been given to the Anzacs on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the landing at Gallipoli - 
Yes. That was given to the Anzacs to enable them to travel  to  Gallipoli. Another $13,000 had been given for another purpose this year. I have some knowledge of the situation resulting from my experience when I first set up the Department of the Special Minister of State. A lot of requests for grants are received. In fact, I was absolutely amazed at the number which come in and I was amazed at the amount of the grants which governments give. It is most difficult for a Minister or for any one individual to say which group should get how much money. In my day- I am sure the position is the same today- there was a committee from the various departments which worked out the criteria for such grants. They considered the balance sheets. If an organisation was visiting Australia to have its conference here, that committee looked at the balance sheet to see that some money was put in for that purpose. 
As far as I can see, we have carried on the  practice of the previous Government in making a close examination of these matters. A recommendation goes to the Minister. It is the Minister who, in the final analysis, says yea or nay. In respect of the Anzacs, a grant was given on the fiftieth anniversary which seemed to be a water mark or a bench mark on which the Government of the day made its contribution. In all of these matters, any organisation to which a government says no or which has the amount requested cut down is disappointed. 
I am sorry that  Senator Wright  has used such harsh language in describing this matter. I point out to him, if he does not know it, that even in the days when he was a Minister, this work is done by a dedicated band of civil servants who apply the criteria that have been built up over many years under previous governments, and that is how a decision is arrived at. The decision in this case has been made. Of course the people concerned would be disappointed that they did not get what they wanted, but that is just the way it is. Some bodies do get their grants; some have the amount reduced; many are refused. That is the situation. It is a decision of the Government. I concede to  Senator Wright  the right to disagree with the decision. I repeat that I am sorry that he used such harsh language in relation to it. 

 Senator Wright also supported the remarks made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, but knowing  Senator Wright  as I have over the years, I would have thought he would not have agreed with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack in one respect. One of the points that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack made is that no longer is there any responsibility to maintain confidentiality. That is just not the situation at all. When any person joins the Public Service he signs an oath. I can remember signing something like this when I joined the Public Service more years ago than I care to recall. A person joining the Public Service signs an oath of allegiance and signs also an undertaking to be bound by the provisions of the relevant government Acts. I would remind the Senate that that includes the Crimes Act. Confidentially is absolutely guaranteed under that Act. 
This decision was made on 2 June 1974. It has taken a long time for  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to raise what he sees as the problem of non-protection of civil servants, the fact that civil servants can be attacked in this Parliament and so on. I repeat that the decision was made on 2 June 1974. I will quote one passage from the Press statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on this matter. It reads: 
The Prime Minister said the policy of the Government and the Labor Party was that restrictions on freedom of expression of public servants and former public servants should be reduced to the minimum necessary for the conduct of affairs of state. 
That is a vastly different situation from the type of picture that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has been trying to draw this evening. The restrictions were reduced to the minimum necessary for the conduct of affairs of state. All of the responsibility on civil servants is not being lifted. Firstly there is the oath that the public servant signs. He signs also an undertaking to be governed by the relevant government Acts which, I repeat, includes the Crimes Act. The next point in the Press statement gives the basis for the reason this decision was made: 
The Government believes that public servants should have the maximum possible freedom to exercise the social and political rights enjoyed by other citizens. 
Who can argue with that? 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack then said that this matter is known as the 'Renouf case'. He created that term himself tonight. It has not been referred to as the 'Renouf case' at any stage. In trying to dub everybody with something he has attacked  Mr Renouf  and has said that this is the Renouf case.  Mr President,  you might have noticed that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack did not quote, or even purport to quote, from what  Mr Renouf  said. He has given a version of what  Mr Renouf  said which is apparently a compound of secondhand newspaper reports and sheer imagination on his part. 
I was prepared to give an answer on this matter this morning. I work fairly hard to try to obtain all the information I can to assist honourable senators at question time. I had prepared the following in case I had to provide an answer this morning. It was on 10 April that  Mr Renouf  gave a speech to a Legacy luncheon in Newcastle entitled 'Foreign Policy and Community Support'. The speech touched on many issues of significance in foreign policy and made particular reference to the area of most topical concernIndoChina.  Mr Renouf  did refer to criticism that what Australia had done in Indo-China was too little too late, although he made no mention of the Opposition in his speech. In rebutting this criticism  Mr Renouf  reiterated what both I and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had said both in the Parliament and by way of a Press release. 
After the speech  Mr Renouf  was questioned by 2 reporters from the same newspaper about the feeling of officers of his Department in the light of Opposition criticism that they were not doing their job properly.  Mr Renouf  quite naturally replied that officers who had worked long and hard organising the Government's assistance for Indo-China had been upset. This is a simple statement of truth. It is apparently an item of truth which the Opposition would prefer the public not to know about. 
Secondly,  Mr Renouf  told the 2 reporters that there had been resentment at the criticism that the Embassy in Phnom Penh had been closed prematurely.  Mr Renouf  stated again, perfectly correctly, that the reasons for the decision had been the risk to the officers concerned plus the absence of vital interests remaining to be protected and the desirability of using Australian means in the evacuation. Had the Embassy not been moved out when it had and an Australian officer had been killed the Opposition would have asked why the officer had been left there and the Government would have been hard pressed to give an answer. Again, this is a simple statement of fact and again it is apparently a fact that the Opposition would prefer the public not to know about. 

 Mr Fraser who has berated  Mr Renouf  for breaching protocol and traditions rang  Mr Renouf  at his home on the night of 10 April and accused him of having broken a 'cardinal principle of the public service'.  Mr Fraser  of course himself breached protocol by ringing  Mr Renouf  directly. 1 might say that up until this time  Mr Fraser  has at no stage given me the courtesy of any message concerning a matter which after all involved the Permanent Head of my own Department. 
Let me conclude by saying that there has never been any question of the right of permanent heads, in explaining the Government's policy and answering criticism of that policy, to quote what their own Minister and the Prime Minister have said in Parliament and by way of Press statements. I also believe that no person with even the faintest pretensions to fairness could object to a Permanent Head describing the reaction of his officers when, after working long and hard, both day and night on a difficult matter, the officers were accused of having done 'too little too late'- in effect impugning their competence and dedication. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I will have to make inquiries and let the honourable senator know. 
The Government is proposing to extend this right only to those people in the employ of Australian or State Government authorities and their spouses because these people go overseas for a short period of time- something like 3 or 4 years- and obviously are going to return. It seems to the Government that the Opposition's amendment is far too wide and embracing. It would cover absences overseas by people for an unlimited period providing they have a fixed intention to return at any time. I know the fixed intention provision is already in the Act, but it is something I would not like to have to prove or disprove in respect of any person. We all know of Australians who have lived overseas for 30 years and who always say that some day they will return to Australia. Maybe that is their fixed intention, but it does seem terribly wide to include these people. What we are trying to do is include those people who are obviously moving away for a fixed period, being required to do so because of their employment in Government departments. This is a matter of opinion; I do not think there is a lot of principle attached to it. The Government sees it that way, but if this was found to be too restrictive we could always amend that provision. I think we would be setting up a provision which was far too wide if we were to accept the Opposition's amendment. 
When I used the word 'political * I in no way meant that it should be a party political situation. There are people who are not sitting in the Parliament who are tremendously interested in this subject. After all, Malcolm Mackerras is a fellow who writes books about electoral boundaries and even tells people who is going to win elections and all sorts of things. He is a university student, as  I  understand it, devoting his time to this sort of thing. Politicians often meet people who have a great interest in these things. So in no way did  I  mean what  Senator Withers  has suggested, which would be bad because, as  I  point out again, it will not always be advantageous in any one political situation.  I  agree with  Senator Withers  in that  I  do not think there have been any doubts as far as I know cast as to the veracity of commissioners. As  I  see it this is a pretty innocuous sort of thing; in a major revision we are simply trying to broaden this provision.  I  think it would be advantageous.  I  do not see any great worries about it.  I  just think that with the sort of world in which we live and with the different types of education we get today we can get younger people interested and  I  merely think this is a very quiet sort of amendment which will give to the Minister of the day a wider choice when he is selecting Distribution Commissioners to look at electoral boundaries. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to an exchange of notes concluded on 2 1 March 1974 between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, and  Mr Marshall  Green, the United States Ambassador, acting on behalf of their respective governments. The exchange of notes amends the agreement of 9 May 1963 between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America relating to the establishment of a United States Naval Communication Station in Australia. 
The exchange of notes followed discussions the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  had in Washington in January 1974 with the United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Schlesinger.  It provides for 3 amendments to the 1963 Agreement. An amendment to Article 1 of the Agreement provides that the station at North West Cape shall be operated jointly while amendment to Article 2 limits United States Navy exclusive occupation to a national room and provides for a similar Australian national room. The land use arrangement under the 1963 Agreement is amended to reflect the changed conditions of use and occupancy. An amendment to Article 14 of the Agreement provides that the Australian Government will meet only the costs directly associated with the location of the Royal Australian Navy at the station, such as salaries, allowances and accommodation. An Australian  Deputy  Commander took up duty at North West Cape on 1 9 July 1 974 while a Royal Australian Navy contingent of 47 officers and men will be posted to the station before the end of June 1975. Fourteen of these will man the Australian communications centre. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate/fon motion by  Senator Sim)  adjourned 
/ DARWIN CYCLONE DAMAGE COMPENSATION BILL 1975 
Yes, the Prime Minister communicated with our people in Peking to contact Prince Sihanouk. As honourable senators know, we have been in contact for some time with the Khmer Rouge through Prince Sihanouk. We said that we hoped that the fighting would cease, that some other way to solve the problems would be found and that we would recognise the forces which took over in Phnom Penh. I think that was the main point of the honourable senator's question. I do not know whether there is any precedent for such communication. The type of warfare that we see today is vastly different from the type to which our generation was accustomed. We must face the realities of the situation, unfortunate and sad as they may be. I hope the fighting in Cambodia will stop and that even at this late stage, as I have said many times there will be a solution other than the terrible slaughter there. We have said for quite a long time that we would stand ready to recognise whatever government stayed on in Phnom Penh. That is why at the United Nations we have supported the Lon Nol Government. Now Lon Nol has left and Lon Boret, the Prime Minister, has left. At the moment the country is under a military command. The Lon Nol Government is not there at the moment and no other government has yet taken over. 
-I will put that request to the Prime Minister, but I very much doubt whether he will agree, Time and time again we have made the point that the Government cannot have these documents being tabled in Parliament. The matter has arisen several times. To be quite fair, I think when in Opposition in the old days we used to ask the Government to table cables and that sort of thing and it disagreed with the idea then. If we think about it seriously for a few moments, and I am sure  Senator Carrick  will, we must ask why if we table one cable we should not table the next? If we do so we will immediately lose the confidence of other nations. A lot of things go into cables. They are used for 'talking' to people, making our views known and merely informing our friends what our thinking is. If  Senator Carrick  thinks about it for a few moments he will see that it would be quite impossible to carry on dealings between nations with any degree of confidentiality and confidence if the other nations knew, or felt under threat, that such documents would be tabled in a House of Parliament 
-Senator Scott has put forward some technical thoughts which I think are well worth examining. One gets this kind of problem from time to time, but in this case it has been exacerbated by the situation in Vietnam.  Senator Scott's  suggestion for overcoming the problem is to do what we have already done with regard to Vietnamese orphans, which is to find some way of speeding up the procedures. I think the best answer I can give to  Senator Scott's  question is yes, I will consider it to see whether some of his ideas can be accepted. 
I cannot say exactly, but towards the end of the negotiations the Japanese raised some serious points which they wanted written into the economic sections. The points were ones we could not accept. That was the cause of the holdup. I have always instructed my officers when dealing with these matters not to be bound by time. Sometimes they can tidy matters up quickly, but something as important as this should in no way be bound by time. Having said that, I must say that it was thought the agreement negotiations might have come to a conclusion at the last Canberra meeting. They did not because of the new economic thoughts which the Japanese wanted written into the agreement. That is what we are trying to iron out at present. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Rae  for his remarks and endorse the latter part of them. Instead of throwing out mementos or photographs, which I think most of us do after we have had them for a time, we should give them to government agencies- in this case to the Australian War Memorial. We should do the same thing with articles that are to be found in libraries and archives. During the period when I was responsible for these agencies the people running them were forever trying to impress upon me the value of these articles. 
As  Senator Rae  has pointed out, and as was pointed out in the second reading speech, this Bill does 2 things. Firstly, it brings within the scope of the Australian War Memorial Act those Australians who served in the forces of other Commonwealth countries or with allied forces, those who were members of the Australian Merchant Navy or who were civilians who served with Australian forces, for example, the Australian Red Cross, the Australian Comforts Fund, the Young Mens Christian Association, war correspondents and photographers. Secondly, the Bill gives greater flexibility so that the War Memorial Board which administers the Australian War Memorial Act will be able to invest available moneys to greater advantage than at present. Of course, as is the case with other government bodies, all the safeguards are provided. I thank  Senator Rae  who on behalf of the Opposition gave the Bill a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
In closing the second reading debate on this Bill I wish to deal generally with the major criticisms offered by the Opposition. Obviously, I do not intend to take them up in detail, because the same amendments moved by the Opposition in the House of Representatives are to be moved here, so that those matters will be handled in much more detail at the Committee stages. The first criticism relates to the provision of the Bill allowing for optional preferential voting. The Opposition apparently believes that the present system, which particularly in Senate elections gives rise to an average of about 10 per cent informal votes, should be retained. It is interesting to note that the informal vote in Senate elections, when there is so often a much larger number of candidates, is between 4 and 5 times as great as the informal vote in the House of Representatives elections. There is no question but that, the more squares there are on a ballot paper to be filled in, the greater is the chance of an informal vote through oversight or inadvertence. 

 Senator Baume said that the system we use today- the full preferential system- is a just system and that, if we departed from it, justice would be assaulted. In very high theory that would be right. When you have a situation, which we have in elections today, where you must vote in some cases for 74 people, but in any case for even 5 or 6 people in a House of Representatives election, you have to say: 'I prefer No. 1 candidate, No. 2 candidate or No. 3 candidate', until it gets right down to the seventy-fourth candidate. It is fine for you to say that you prefer a certain candidate as, say, your ninth preference over your tenth preference, provided you have a complete knowledge of the people for whom you are voting, and that is patently ridiculous in our electoral system. One can look around one's own Party room, where there are about 100 members, or any organisation in which one is involved and one can conscientiously say to oneself that a certain man would be one's ninth preference over one's tenth preference. It may be that the No. 1 or No. 2 candidate stands out in one's mind but, when it gets down to that, the decision must be based on a full and complete knowledge. 
I suggest that it is patently absurd to say that the electorate in Australia can manage elections with even 4 or 5 candidates but, when one gets Senate elections involving 26 or 27 persons, and in the famous case in New South Wales last year involving 73 persons, it is obviously beyond one's power, because no one can have knowledge of so many people standing for election. Of course, some of them are not known at all to a large majority of the electors and, even if one gets probably the best known public figures in Australia, all those things that would go into making up one's mind whether a candidate should be the ninth or tenth preference are not within the voter's knowledge. 
The Opposition would preserve this high rate of informal vote while the Government 's aim is to ensure that the percentage of informal votes is reduced and that people whose intentions are clear are afforded the maximum opportunity to have those intentions translated into a valid vote. Those honourable senators from New South Wales will remember the mammoth ballot paper containing the names of 73 candidates who faced the electors of New South Wales in the last Senate election. If optional preferential voting had been operative at that election it would have had 2 effects: First, the time taken and the difficulty involved in filling out the ballot paper correctly would have been greatly reduced and, secondly, the incentive to promote the nomination of a large number of candidates deliberately to produce confusion would have been severely reduced. I do not think anyone argues that they were genuine candidates at that election. 
Let me turn now to the provision that would allow the identification on ballot papers of candidates belonging to registered political parties. The objection raised to this provision is that it will make things more difficult for smaller parties. Whilst it may be true that this provision will make it difficult for some small parties to secure registration, and hence identification of their candidate's party affiliation on the ballot paper, there is in this argument the underlying assumption that it is an advantage to have a party affiliation displayed against the candidate's name on the ballot paper. I think  Senator Withers  suggested that there might be disadvantages for a candidate if this procedure were to be adopted. The real point of this provision is, against that, it makes things easier for the voter in validly recording his true intention. He would then be protected against the confusion which results from nuisance candidates who change their names so that they are very similar to or indeed identical with the names of genuine candidates. There is, of course, a provision in the Bill relating to name changes by candidates within a specific period prior to an election, but there are obvious cases where, by long-term planning, this provision could be subverted. Therefore, identification of candidates by party affiliation is an additional safeguard in this respect. 
I think it is true that many people- I suppose the larger proportion- go to the polling booths with the intention of voting for a political party. I know that some honourable senators do not like to think that their great names do not draw attention to themselves, but I think we all realise very much that, if any one of us did not have a party affiliation attached to us at Senate election time we would not be here at all or, indeed, for as long as some of us have been here. People are going along to vote not for a particular name but for a political party, and this legislation is giving them the option of being able to do that by knowing for which candidates they must vote if they are going to vote for their particular party. 
There have been objections to the increase of the amount of deposit to be lodged with a candidate 's nomination. Again, the necessity for a substantial nomination fee was inescapably highlighted by the New South Wales Senate ballot paper of last year with its 73 candidates, many of whom were clearly nuisance candidates the nomination of whom was facilitated by the relatively low deposit required.  Senator Withers  suggested today a figure of $500 rather than $1,000 for Senate elections. However, I believe that in these times a person who has some chance of being elected and who genuinely has some support in the electorate would be able to raise that amount of money. After all, if one relates our old friend inflation to the deposit we paid in our early days I do not think the rise would be that much. 
Standing for election to a State Parliament or the Federal Parliament should be a serious business, and it ought not to be too much to say that, as this is a serious business, a serious amount of money should be deposited. If there are going to be people setting out to subvert the electoral system by having mischievous candidates then I think it requires the government of the day to do something about it. The device of requiring a deposit cannot eliminate entirely this type of deposit. That is obvious. We could make it $10,000 but, if people wanted to be mischievous enough, they could find that sum. Clearly, however, it will act as a deterrent to them. The setting of a substantial deposit conflicts with the desire to facilitate the nomination of persons genuinely seeking elections to Parliament. Clearly, the balance has to be struck and the figure of $1,000 is in the Government's view the best balance that can be struck at present, having in mind that one would not normally expect an alteration in the deposit for some years after this legislation is enacted. That is my point about inflation. So, if we fix the deposit at $500 today I do not think it is that much above the present amount or indeed will it be in future, with the level of inflation obtaining in the world today. 
The other Opposition objection has been to the earlier closing of polling booths. Were we to accept the argument of the Opposition, polling booths would be open for 24 hours or even for a week. Again this question boils down to striking a balance between the necessity to give members of the public a reasonable opportunity to place their votes and the burdens placed on the polling officers because of counting procedures and so forth. In these days of increased mobility there seems to be no good reason why that balance should not be struck for a 10-hour polling period rather than a 12-hour polling period which would condemn polling officers to a 13-hour day rather than a 1 5-hour day. I think the question of fatigue and of being sick and tired of the look of ballot papers by the time the electorate processes come to an end is important. 
I said I would deal with only a few of the matters raised. 1 wish to refer to the question of postal votes. Few people in Australia would not have been appalled at the uncertainty that followed the last election. I might add that the uncertainty paralleled that of the 1961 election. Uncertainty as to the result of an election creates not merely a paralysis in government but means that the people's representatives in Parliament are unable for the period of the uncertainty, to exercise the direction of government administration that the electors are entitled to expect. The objections raised to this provision by the Opposition are based largely on the argument of electors' convenience, but the reordering of arrangements that electors would need to make in order to comply with the new provision are very minor and compared with the disadvantages and uncertainties of the present system are, I believe, a small price to pay. All honourable senators will recall the outcry in the Press which reflected very genuine and deep public disquiet at the mechanical inability of the existing electoral system to produce a definite result within a short time after election day. After the last election there was an uncertainty in both Houses. This uncertainty of government lasted for about 2 weeks. Then there was the uncertainty as to the numbers, which I do not suppose is such a major thing. 
-I wish I had run into the honourable senator at that stage. He would have lifted my hopes. I was dealing really with the Press. I have some Press clippings here. I could quote them to the honourable senator. I do not think the numbers of each party were that important from the point of view of the election, but the question arose whether the Government had a majority in both Houses. That took much longer to decide. It should not be beyond the wit of people to overcome that situation. I believe that these things should be overcome. So far the paralysis of government which takes place during those few weeks has not been a major problem. I think it would be a very bad situation if the Government, internally or externally, was going through some of the crises that governments go through. It is important to have a government that can make decisions. I think this is of great importance particularly where a new government may wish to reverse decisions of previous governments or to alter the trend which that government was taking. Because of the present system, for the first time in history we had a government consisting of 2 people. This occurred because the system that we have in our Party insists that all members of the Government must be elected by Caucus. Caucus is composed of the duly elected members of the Federal Parliament. That is why the first Whitlam Government consisted of 2 people. Our processes transfixed onto the slow counting produced that situation. The 2 people might have thought it was a good system for that fortnight. 
-One worry was that the 2 members might have perpetuated the system of 2-men government. They might have thought that two was quite enough. That was our main worry at the time. The remainder of the matters raised will be dealt with in the Committee stage. I have dealt with some of the objections and they will be dealt with more fully in the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) agreed to: 
That consideration of the Bill in Committee of the Whole be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. 
The reason put forward by  Senator Withers  in opposing clause 6 (a) seems to be that there does or there may exist between political parties suspicion of one another. He went on to deal with why the Opposition is worried about this provision in the Bill. This is a fairly simple amendment. The situation at the moment is that there are 3 Distribution Commissioners in each State, one of whom shall be the Chief Electoral Officer or an officer having similar qualifications and one of whom shall be the Surveyor-General of the State or an officer having similar qualifications. We have only changed the prescription of the Surveyor-General of the State to try to broaden the provision to include other surveyors who would be registered or licensed surveyors. In other words, we are de-socialising this. We seek to delete the provision that requires the person to be a Commonwealth officer or a State officer and we want to look around the whole of a State to find who would be the best man for the particular job. It may be asked: Why do not we do it in the case of the Chief Electoral Officer? The answer is self-evident. There are no private electoral officers, they are Commonwealth officers. I point out to the Opposition that in the present Act the word 'officer' is used, so the Distribution Commissioners are the Chief Electoral Officer or a person with similar qualifications who is a Government employee, the Surveyor-General or an officer who has to be, as I say, a Commonwealth or State public servant, and one other suitable person is selected. What we are attempting to do is to enlarge the one provision that can be enlarged to cover the broad spectrum of people who must be qualified. What we are looking for obviously is not only a person who has the technical competence but also a person who has a flair for this type of thing. 

 Senator Withers started off talking about suspicions but there will be both types of government in the future. I am sure  Senator Withers  believes that. There is not going to be a Labor Government forever and ever. I see this provision as merely broadening the present provision to give the Government more flexibility in getting a person who still has to be qualified. He will not be an unqualified person. There will be an electoral man. There will be a man with cartographic, surveying, knowledge. We are broadening this. Here is an opportunity to get younger men to act as Distribution Commissioners. Here is an opportunity to get the type of person who would be more politically interested in this sort of thing than we are getting at present. I do not think there is any need for any great argument about this.  Senator Withers  may have his mind made up on this. Bearing in mind all those vital matters which the Opposition aims to cut out of the Bill I really wonder why it is worried about this provision. 
The Government opposes these amendments, although they are consequential, because we opposed the changing of the law as we intended it to be. I may have left a bad impression, and this was picked up by  Senator Hall.  Without opening up the argument, I think I should say that restricting this to government employees was in no way meant to be discriminatory. But one could have a situation where some subdivisions were stacked with the names of people who were living overseas for a long period of time. There have been a lot of complaints by civil servants, saying: 'We have to go overseas to serve our country and yet we are penalised in this way', so it was a question of whether we covered that situation or extended it so that it became so wide that we believed it would not be workable. That aspect has been dealt with, and the Committee has voted on it and accepted the Opposition's amendments, but I want it clearly understood that we oppose these amendments. I do not intend to take the Committee to the stage of dividing on every one of these amendments. We will vote against them on the voices. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 14 to 16- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Names on Roll may be objected to). 
One purpose of this clause is to prevent frivolous objections. The other purpose is to update the amount for today's situation. It now costs 50c to make an objection. I would not be surprised if at one time the amount had been 5 shillings. I do not know the exact time when the sum was changed to 50 cents but that has been the prescribed amount for many years. In updating the Commonwealth Electoral Act it was very obvious that this amount ought to be raised. As I pointed out earlier in the day when we were debating the question of deposits, this amount is not merely for today. We will not be able to update it in 12 months. It will stay there for some time. With the inevitable inflation in the world today, the sum does not seem to us to be excessive. In this Bill we are merely increasing it from 50 cents to $2. If anybody is so interested as to challenge the name of a fellow-citizen being on the roll he must be serious-minded enough to make a $2 payment. Although  Senator Withers  has explained the Opposition's attitude, I am a little surprised that the Opposition is opposing this clause. It does not seem to be striking at any principles. 
-When I resume my seat I will ask my adviser. I do not know how many there would be or even whether records are kept. A name may be removed after objection by a private citizen or by action initiated by the Electoral Office.  Senator Withers  has said that he doubts that there have been any frivolous objections. I think that our views may have been coloured by what occurred in New South Wales during the last federal election campaign. I do not think that anybody claims that there was not a fair amount of frivolity or mischievousness in New South Wales during the last election campaign when 74 candidates were nominated. I do not think there would be any great hardship in raising the amount, which has been in the principal Act for so many years, from 50c to $2. 
I have given the reason for the Government's proposal: It is an updating of the legislation. I have asked my advisers about the question which  Senator Baume  has raised. They inform me that no central record of the actual number of objections is kept, but from their knowledge they think that the number of private objections would not be great and that most of them would be carried out by the electoral officers. I do not think that  Senator Marriott  really has to worry that people out of work, age pensioners and those sorts of people would be challenging many persons on the roll. If the objection is not frivolous, if it is a serious objection, the money is returned to the person making the objection. So honourable senators opposite need have no worry. If in some way the Electoral Office has missed certain persons on the roll, and if objections are taken to those persons and those objections are not frivolous, the money is returned to the person making the objection. 
I think that we are all clear as to where we stand on this question. I repeat that in spring cleaning of the electoral laws  Mr Daly  decided it was time that this position which we are considering was brought up to date. Because of what happened in New South Wales, I think that probably we all are a little nervous that these things could creep into the machinery and put an intolerable burden on the Office. 
Question put: 
Imaginations certainly have run fairly wild tonight over what is a fairly simple proposition. I would say that the vast majority of normal voters in Australia would welcome the printing of political affiliations on ballot papers. It is an accepted fact that most people vote solely on party lines. I know that that may hurt the ego of some of our colleagues here. They think their great names sweep the poll, but I would like to take a bet against any one of us, including myself, if we stood without a party tag at any Senate election. It is an eminently fair and effective means of assisting and informing the electors. That is what it will do. It will give no great advantages to political parties. 

 Senator Withers talks about the way we go on now, with how-to-vote cards and all the rest ot it. I have often wondered whether that is the sort of system that we really want in Australia. We have got used to it, and it has grown up, but it seems to me to be a tremendous waste of manpower. Honourable members opposite talk about insulting the intelligence of electors by putting party names on the ballot papers. Do we not insult the inteligence of electors when people put cards into their hands when they are going in to vote? All candidates have this done for them, and generally most people take the cards and discard the ones that they do not want. So, if we are going to have the party affiliations put beside the names of the individual candidates it follows that we must have some form of registration, and that is what we are doing here. It is a necessary part of the procedure to ensure that the correct party names are shown against the names of the candidates on the ballot papers. Registration will also guard against misrepresentation by persons claiming wrongfully to have the endorsement of a political party. 
Some honourable senators have got a little enthusiastic when talking about this matter.  Senator Hall  certainly did. He said that in some way this change will be an advantage for old parties. I do not see that at all. As I said, if we have the political affiliations alongside candidates' names it follows that we must have registration. It is not unusual in administration to have registration. What is the situation? One can look at the clause to which  Senator Withers  has referred. He says that there are some things that will not be allowed. I will pick out just a few of them, and I am sure honourable senators will agree that such things should not be allowed. Proposed new section 58L provides that registration of a name shall be refused if the name is the same as, or is likely to be confused with, the registered name of another party- they even do that with racehorses and with companies- or, if it 'comprises more than 6 words'. That is the situation as I understand it in Great Britain where, I believe, they put the political affiliation on the paper. The provision will also apply if the name 'suggests a connection with the Royal family'. Surely, no one would argue with that. The provision will also apply if the name is misleading, offensive, obscene or frivolous. It is a pretty limited sort of thing with which no honourable senator in this chamber would argue. If we are to have this system, it should not be mandatory on the Chief Returning Officer to obscure party affiliations. 
The well known names of the Labor Party, Liberal Party and so on, will appear. True, it will be mandatory that that be done, but that does not stop a registering authority from registering 100 different parties if he wants to do so, and it would come under this provision. To take  Senator Withers'  argument, three or four people might decide to form themselves into a party. Providing they are not doing those things that are restricted, there is nothing to stop the returning officer from registering that party. Where is the advantage to the great parties? The big parties rise and fall. Sometimes, as one knows by watching at election time, one of the big parties will publish its name in very small print. I remember that being done in 1972: A particular party kept its name very low. At other times they want to blazon their names as high as they can. 
Honourable senators have seen this many times in their electoral and political lives. It is wrong to say that the parties are going to be under the supervision of a government. They are not going to be under the supervision of a government at all. This is merely a situation in which parties are going to be registered, which is a necessary prerequisite before a party name can be put on a ballot paper. Honourable senators are reading a lot of stuff into this matter that does not exist. I fail to see, and I am unconvinced by the arguments, that this will give any political advantage to any party at all. As a matter of fact, if one thinks about it, the advantage would go to the small and new party, because it would not, and of course could not, have the apparatus that the big parties have, that is, manning of every booth and using all the money that is used. How could the small party man every booth in the States throughout Australia? Parties do this for the purpose of advertising themselves and, if the people are Labor voters, they get the Labor cards or, if they are Liberal voters, they are given the Liberal cards. The advantage, if any, not the disadvantage, lies with the small party. The small party could know full well that every elector had picked up a ballot paper in that electorate, or, if it was a Senate election, throughout the whole State, and every elector would know that Joe Blow belonged to the ABC party, or whatever, and not one how-to-vote card would have to be put out by Joe Blow. 
I think we are shying at a lot of shadows on this matter. I am surprised about this, because ever since I have been handing out how-to-vote cards- and I was a small boy when I started- I have heard this raised time and time again. We have people becoming irate at the number of how-to-vote cards put in their hands and saying: Why have you not got some sense? Why do you not put the name of the political party on the card? I want to vote for this or that party, and that is all I am concerned about.' We are getting right away from the whole object of this. I fail to see where it is an advantage or where there is anything in the Bill to stop any group of people, provided they are honestly coming along to form a political party, from being registered. The only things in the Bill to stop that are things that no honourable senator would disagree withobscenity, using the name of the Royal family and so on. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (9.7)- Contrary to the hope expressed by the Foreign Minister in relation to the Bill, I am of the view that clause 2 1 will create extraordinary difficulties for the electoral officers and, indeed, for the generality of the Electoral Office. In saying that, I want to add, in response to what  Senator Withers  said earlier, that along with all parliamentarians I have a profound respect for the integrity and capability of Commonwealth electoral officers. I have had a long association with them both as a candidate over many years and, indeed, in my own family. My wife's father was a Commonwealth electoral officer for many years. These officers have always achieved wonderful efficiency for as long as I can remember. Clause 2 1 covers something like 6 pages of the Bill, and in almost every proposed sub-section contained in that clause I think there is a challenge with which a Commonwealth electoral officer will be confronted and on which he will be required to make a judgment. 
All honourable senators know how busy electoral officers are prior to an election with the closing of nominations, getting ready for the poll, the ballot, election day and the count thereafter. The Electoral Office will need the wisdom of Solomon to administer this provision if it becomes law. In our debate here we tend to regard the problem in terms of the Senate as distinct from the executive House, the House of Representatives. We argue the matter, look at it and make judgments on it on the basis of there being a double dissolution, with 10 senators or 5 senators, to be elected. Of course on occasion there may be 73 candidates to choose from.  Senator Withers,  in relation to the previous clause, talked in general terms of four or five candidates standing for each seat in the House of Representatives. Four or five candidates in each case stand for 90 per cent of the seats in elections for the House of Representatives. 
Perhaps the person chosen is a great debater. Perhaps he is a mayor of a municipality. Perhaps he is from a local club such as a football club or a bowling club. He might be a prize fighter. He could be a preacher. But he is an individual. He is not a dead piece of wood with a tag tied to him. If we take this proposition to its logical conclusion everything that is democratic will be negated. The Government is saying that it does not matter who a candidate is. He could have the seat out of his pants. He may not be worth 2 bob. If he has a tag around his neck bearing the name of a party he is the candidate for whom the people will vote. I do not believe that is so. I know the Government does not intend to do so, but it is offering the electorate probably the greatest insult it could possibly offer. 
I say to the Government gently: Do not go on with this. It will cause problems for electoral officers. A challenge could be made to almost every line of clause 21, and clause 21 covers 6 pages of the Bill. I suggest that this is not a practical proposition. I suggest it takes away the inherent right of every elector to nominate as Joe Blow if he wishes. The Government is saying: All right, elect anyone with a tag'. Candidates could be completely unconscious but the Government believes they should be elected because they have a tag bearing the name of a party on them. God help us if that occurs in the future. Let us have democracy at its best. We should have some way in which electors can choose a candidate. It may be myself or even  Senator Poyser,  who is interjecting and who is a nice, kindly person at heart. It is not right for him to be elected because he has a tag around his neck. It does not do justice to him. I would like candidates to stand up in their own right to be elected. With great respect I think the proposition is quite wrong and I hope clause 2 1 is not agreed to. 
Firstly, I do not think  Senator Scott  requires an answer. He told us a lot about his Party and what good fellows belong to it. I do not think he wants that written into the Act which is what I am dealing with tonight. I wish a few more people would concentrate on the Bill before us. 
I exonerate you from that.  Senator Scott  said- again without any backing to his argument- that I had said that if anything, this would help small parties. He said that that was wrong but he did not tell us why.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson told us stories about how we would make wooden dummies with tags around them. I will come back to the point. I do not want to labour it but I do not think any of us would be in this place if we did not belong to a political party. Ben Chifley, with his great humour, used to say that on one occasion when he was Prime Minister he spent three or four days canvassing and door knocking with one of our candidates. He said: 'You know, it taught me a lesson. Whenever I go around Australia now, I meet a new candidate and he says that he is going to win a seat because he is so very well known. He thinks everybody knows him'. Chifley used to say: 'I thought I was fairly well known but when I went around doorknocking I found that half the people had never ever heard of me, so I do not know what chance new candidates have got.' I was not going to raise the following matter but honourable senators opposite are shying at all these shadows. I refer honourable senators to a question which, strange to say, was asked by  Mr Daly  on 16 September 1970 of  Mr Nixon  who was then in charge of the Electoral Act.  Mr Daly  asked: 
Is he - 
That is, the Ministerable to say in which countries the name of the political party represented by each candidate in Parliamentary elections is shown on the ballot paper. 

 Mr Nixon replied: 
Except in respect of the United Kingdom, I am unable to add to the answer that I gave to Question No. 141 which appears in Hansard dated 10 June 1970. 
The United Kingdom has been added to the list of countries since that date. In the other answer the Minister said there were 37 countries which in one form or another did something about this. Let me be perfectly honest with the Committee; it is not exactly the same way as we are doing it. 
Only a couple use symbols and we are not quite sure how they operate. The electoral officers do not know. I just point out that these countries are getting along quite well with it. Great Britain, which is often quoted here as the mentor, the mother of Parliaments and all those other phrases, seems to be getting along all right with it.  Senator Scott  says that I say it is a simple proposition. It is a simple proposition. The fact that one has to write five or six pages to sew up loopholes does not make the principle and what one is aiming for any the less simple. In spite of my sincerity and great oratory tonight, I do not see  Senator Withers  across the table wilting one bit. I think he has made his mind up and we have certainly made our mind up because, as I say, way back in 1 970 we were talking about this. 
-That is one on which he is instructed in the Bill. He just would not accept that. It is very much the same as I said a little while ago; you register companies and even race horses. 
Question put: 
That clause 2 1 stand as printed. 
First, what we are providing here at the moment, as has been made very clear, is a prohibition against State members of Parliament nominating for the Federal Parliament, because they could not be chosen. It is not even a question of sitting. We are attempting in our amendment to extend this to the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory and, as I understand it, that was not going to be opposed by the Opposition.  Senator Hall's  amendment is to wipe the lot out so that all State members as well as Northern Territory members can stand. To me, it appears that there are 2 situations if ever one is going to arrive at this. One is that a majority of the Commonwealth Parliament thinks this is a desirable thing, and that is a matter of opinion. At the moment, the Liberal Party does not support it but  Senator Withers  just said he has some sympathy for it. 
Secondly, if there were a majority of people, how does one achieve it? As  Senator Withers  said, it would take a very game man to start looking at this section of the Constitution.  Senator Hall  is seeking the very opposite of what we set out to do. At the moment, as I understand it, my Party does not want to do that, and I do not think the Liberal Party has ever said as a body that it wants to do it. I think there is another difficulty. I put it to  Senator Withers  and he was a bit tentative about it. What will happen, even if there is a conditional resignation, if a person suddenly finds himself at some point in control of 2 seats? He might then say, 'Boy, I didn't go so well in this Federal seat. Distant hills do not look very much greener. I would rather stay in the State seat'. At what point is that to be taken away from him? 
The Liberal Party has changed its mind in the last few minutes under the persuasion, I presume, of  Senator Hall.  I do not think that the Opposition will put any pressures on the Government at all. If the Opposition thinks that in 2 weeks we will clear up this constitutional position which has never been challenged- there are also the other problems that we have at the present time- it is being highly optimistic. As I said earlier, firstly the Opposition has to convince the government of the day that what it proposes is the desirable thing to do- that is quite apart from the legal situation. I do not know, but I think that my Party would be opposed to the proposition anyway. Perhaps I could be wrong; occasionally I am wrong in my Party and I lose the vote. Secondly, the Opposition is asking us to deal with the constitutional aspect of this problem in a very short time. I would have thought that the airing that has been given to this question tonight, with  Senator Hall  's thoughts on it, has probably done a lot of good. I am sure that it has done a lot of good. At least it has been put on the record. I think that the best thing to do would be to make an examination of the question, including the legal situation. I do not think I could hold out any great hope to the Opposition that in the period of one, two or three weeks before the Bill is returned to the Senate we will be able to deal with a constitutional position about which nobody has ever been able to make up his mind. 
The Opposition has now changed its view once again. Until now, as  I  said earlier in the day in regard to this matter, it has been virtually a matter of opinion. Until a few minutes ago both the Opposition and the Government were agreed that the deposits ought to be increased but there was an honest difference of opinion as to how high the figures should go. Now  Senator Withers,  on behalf of his Party at least in the Senate, has said that the Opposition will vote against these 2 subclauses so that there will be no increase in the deposits. 
I do not think there is any need for me to talk at length on this matter.  Senator Withers  correctly stated why the Government is doing this. Firstly, the value of money has changed considerably since the time when the small deposit was fixed; and secondly, it has been shown already in one State that people are capable of deliberately trying to wreck the electoral system. If those people in Bankstown, New South Wales, had been able to get 173 or 273 people to nominate- according to my information they wanted to do this; anybody could put his name down and the deposit would be found for themthey would have been able to stop the democratic process from working. I invite the Opposition to consider what it would do if the nominations got up to 300, 400 or 500. We would not be able to operate the electoral system as it is today without the amendments we have suggested in this Bill. We are trying to head these people off at the pass so that the Opposition will not be able to come back and complain saying: Look what you have done; you have to do something about it'. 
I do not belabour the point. We are seeking this amendment because there is a changed money situation. This amendment is designed not just for the next 12 months or so. If the amendments are carried we will be taking into account the deposit situation for quite some years. We are taking into account not only the inflation that has taken place but also the inflation in wage rates that we can expect in the future. There is a serious situation in regard to jamming the ballot paper to the extent that the system will not operate. Where will the small political parties be then? They will get the rough end of the stick far worse than will the big parties. We have been hearing a lot tonight about the small parties.  Senator Withers  suggested another method and that was to make people get more nominators. 
I suppose that, if we had suggested that proposition, the Opposition would have said to us: Look, you are starting to increase the bureaucratic processes. You are starting to put people into a situation in which they will be harassed. What about the busy man who seeks to submit his nomination only a few minutes before the deadline?' I do not know what figures the Opposition would suggest in this case. It may suggest 200 nominators. That number of nominators would not be difficult to get. If one stood in any street in Australia and told the people that one wanted to have a go at the Government or the Opposition, whichever suited the purpose, one would soon get one 's 200 nominators. If one then presented the appropriate document at one minute to midday, the electoral officer would not know whether he had a valid nomination. 
This matter has been kicked around in our Party quite a lot.  Senator Mulvihill  tells me that the committee which considers these matters has given attention to these aspects. What we are saying- and we are still of the same intention- is that we want a deterrent against people who will nominate frivolously or will nominate mischievously rather than frivolously. It is a matter of opinion. We have come down on the side that there ought to be not just an increase in the deposit in money terms but some penalty imposed on people who act either frivolously or mischievously in nominating in an election. 
The other point which honourable senators opposite should keep in mind is that this is a deposit and not a payment. The only people who will lose that deposit and will be penalised are those who poll a very low number of votes. No respectable political party in Australia will lose its deposit in respect of nominations. If I have offended some party by using those words, I apologise. I did not mean what those words may convey. What I mean is that if a political party has enough drive behind it and is widely enough based it will not lose a deposit. I emphasise the point that this is a deposit and not a payment. As I said, I do not think there is any need to belabour the point. We believe that this provision is quite essential and that what we propose here is the best way to achieve the end. The best way is to have a monetary penalty in preference to the other methods that we have considered. 
Question put: 
That sub-clause (b) stand as printed. 
-I am afraid I cannot help  Senator Davidson  very much. I have not received a copy of the report and therefore have not studied it, but I will certainly make inquiries and let the honourable senator know of anything I can find out for him. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a report on domestic refrigerators, washing machines and clothes dryers by the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
I am not aware of the documents to which the honourable senator referred in the first part of his question. I am aware of allegations of brutalities in that area. In the confused situation in both Cambodia and Vietnam now at this very late stage I think that all governments, whatever indirect influences they have- I do not think any outside governments have any direct influences on the situationshould be urging both sides, anybody at all who has anything to do with the fighting, that whatever the outcome they try to bind their wounds and at least try to show some mercy and justice to one another. 
Answering the last part of the question first, I would think that when Phnom Penh fell the firing would cease. I do not think there would be any point then in asking anybody to do what the honourable senator suggests. I am sure that the fighting would not continue after that. As to the first part of the question, the only thing I know is that on 'AM ' this morning there was a report which said that Long Boret, who has been away from Phnom Penh but has returned, had offered a ceasefire to Prince Sihanouk, who had refused it. I have no confirmation of that report; so I am unable to give the honourable senator anything factual about that. The situation is tremendously confused. There is now a military government and Long Boret, who was the Premier and may still be the Premier, is part of that military government. In the dying days of Phnom Penh it is very difficult to pass any value judgments. All I know of the situation comes from reports. 
I am unable to give details of military deployments in the Korean peninsula. Accusations are always going backwards and forwards between the 2 sides. 
-The Department of Defence may have some knowledge of the deployments. I certainly will find out anything I can for the honourable senator. As to my opinion of the situation- the honourable senator has asked for an opinion- I do not think it is any help my giving it. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, 1 present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries, of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Tasmania, together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland, together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
-No. I think I should get the latest information on that and let the honourable senator have a considered reply. 
-I ask the honourable senator to place the question on notice and I will refer it to the Special Minister of State. 
I have drawn up what might be termed a 'working paper' on this matter and have given it to the Prime Minister. I expect that very shortly the other departments will be brought in to discuss the whole affair. While I am dealing with this question I might say that, as honourable senators know, we have given our ambassador in South Vietnam leave to cut down our own staff. That is what we did with our Ambassador in Cambodia. Our Ambassador in Saigon has cut the staff to a very small number and we are keeping that matter under consideration. We have now sent 2 letters to Australians in South Vietnam advising them that we believe that it is desirable for them to leave at this stage. 
As to the last part of the honourable senator's question, the previous Government took exactly the same course with Wilfred Burchett. All the historical material related by  Senator Greenwood  is correct; that is the way it happened. I will check on the latest situation regarding  Mr O'Donnell.  As I understand it, it was considered that he did not have grounds, on humanitarian considerations, to come into Australia, but I will check on that and let the honourable senator know the position. 
No, I have not seen the statement about this matter. I did not quite get the purport of the rest of the honourable senator's question, so I will take the question on board, have it examined and let him have a reply. 
-Yes, I will pass that suggestion on for examination. As I understand it, what we are doing so far is merely to accelerate applications for adoption, a process that would have taken a longer time except for what has happened. I certainly will pass on that suggestion. 
-I largely answered this question a little earlier. I think  Senator Davidson  probably would know that we set up a special task force in which the Department of Labor and Immigration is involved at the working level. As I said in answer to a question earlier from  Senator Withers,  I have prepared a working paper on this. It has gone to the other Ministers concerned. It takes all those matters into consideration. 
I have seen no report that suggests that any Australians are involved in the alleged massacres. We have seen Press reports concerning the latter half of the honourable senator's question-that people have been killed. Everybody, of course, deplores such actions as these, if indeed they have occurred. We hope that the People's Revolutionary Government will treat its opponents with magnanimity whatever the part they have played in the tragic events in Vietnam, and that reprisals and retribution will find no part in its policies. The Prime Minister has written to - 
We hope that reports of what is happening are not true. If it is happening we hope it will cease. I was about to say that the Prime Minister has written to both the People's Revolutionary Government and representatives of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in these terms. 
The PRG has issued a 10 point statement from 1 April and an earlier 7 point statement on 25 March which set out its policies towards the South Vietnamese in those areas which have recently come under its control. These statements, if adhered to, are most encouraging. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is yes. I will do that. The answer to the first part of the question is yes, in broad terms. I think the honourable senator has put forward an interesting proposition. The Government has taken into consideration some of the points raised by the honourable senator, but I cannot quite remember whether it considered all the points raised. I will certainly take up his suggestions. 
On 4 March 1975,  Senator Wright  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he would be reminded, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs advised me on 12 February, that the United Nations first took up the general question of terrorism on an international basis following the Munich Olympics in 1 972? The news of the present hijacking in the Middle East forcing the release of prisoners, to me is an indication of a lack of civilization internationally. 
Is the Minister in possession of information that since that proposal was made to the United Nations in 1972 no progress has really been made? What is the explanation for the United Nations dragging its feet on this matter when one would think that a convention between all civilized countries was instantly available to combat international terrorism? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The  Senator will  be aware of the general background to consideration of the item on international terrorism by the 27th United Nations General Assembly from my letter to him of 12 February. The item was included on the agenda of the twenty-eighth Session. At the twenty-eighth Session, consideration of a related preceding item, the Draft Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Diplomatic Agents and other Internationally Protected Persons, was not completed by the Sixth (Legal) Committee until 5 December, 1973 and the Committee  Chairman  subsequently proposed that the item be deferred to the twenty-ninth Session. The Sixth Committee adopted the Chairman's proposal by consensus. 
At the twenty-ninth Session, there was no substantive debate on this item. It was generally agreed that because of the profound and well known differences in the Sixth Committee on this subject and the item was best left last on the agenda, and in the event, there was no time to debate it. It was deferred by consensus to the thirtieth Session of the General Assembly. 
-A visa has been granted to a  Mr El  Surani, who is making a visit to this area. I am just trying to pick up his title from my file. He is the head of the Arab League in Cairo. He is doing a series of visits, including a visit to this country. He is going through most of the South-East Asian countries. He  wil  be visiting here. As I remember it he will be quite willing to appear before the media and - 
-Not necessarily. I do not know what is his obvious purpose. I just state as a fact that I remember reading that he wants to come here and put the case of the Arab League on this question. As to whether or not the visit is to enable the setting up of some permanent organisation here, we have had no applications on that score. 
-What has happened regarding the whole question of refugees is that we have made an approach through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. He has cabled us in connection with this matter and it is under study at this very moment. We have, of course, sent people to Guam to pick up those people who have escaped from Vietnam and who come within our categories so that they can be processed and brought here. As to the special organisation mentioned by the honourable senator, I will do a check on that matter and give him some more information on it. 
I am not aware of whether that was done. As honourable senators know the cables that followed the letters were leaked and given to the Press by somebody. As far as I know the others followed the same course. I will certainly find out whether they were given officially and let the honourable senator know. 

 - Senator Baume has asked a series of questions the answers to some of which I will have to find out for him.  Mr Darby  did assemble some nurses. 
Yes. I am not quite sure about the goods. That is one aspect I will have to check on for the honourable senator. I understand that three of them have gone to Guam and that the Americans have said that they do not require any more. I think they are there at the moment. As to the rest of the questions concerning the goods and what happened to them, I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
-There have been reports of the situation in Phnom Penh being chaotic. It is very hard to check on that. We have been getting our reports mainly from Bangkok and thereabouts. The reports have been confused, but it does seem that the situation there is in a very confused state and is not a good one. 
The question of the honourable senator is one which now falls within my jurisdiction. The answer is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 

 - Mr Presi-dent, I could hardly believe my ears when in his concluding remarks  Senator Greenwood,  speaking presumably on behalf of his Party, used the words 'negotiation and conciliation' in regard to 
Indo-China, when the whole of the thrust of his Government was to bring about a warlike situation in Indo-China and to bring about a military decision and not a peaceful one. Who has been talking about negotiation and conciliation over all the years of this terrible war? It has been the Australian Labor Party that has done that and it has been fought all the way by the previous Government, now the Opposition. 
If honourable senators listened carefully to  Senator Greenwood  they will know that he used words such as 'the impact of what happened', 'it was inferred from what  Senator Willesee  said ', it was inferred from what  Mr Peacock  said', 'it was inferred from what the Prime Minister said'. In the course of my speech I will quote exactly what  Mr Peacock  said and exactly what I said about what  Mr Peacock  had said. When I stated that what  Mr Peacock  had said was based on a lie, it was based on a lie. He had not seen the cables at that stage. He had got a leak and he had misunderstood the leak. That is very clear if honourable senators are fair minded enough to look at what  Mr Peacock  said- not what he inferred, not what I inferred, not what the Prime Minister inferred.  Senator Greenwood  said that the cables 'were telling the Government of North Vietnam ', 'were telling the Government of South Vietnam'. The cables did not tell the governments anything. The letters told the governments what they should do. What the cables did was to instruct our ambassadors how to follow up the letters. Indeed, that is the deceitful part of what  Senator Greenwood  is putting up. He is an intelligent enough man to know the difference between a letter between governments and cables sent to our ambassadors. 
The allegations concerning cables and other communications with Hanoi and Saigon originally raised by  Mr Peacock  in the House of Representatives on 8 April were revived by publication of the text of the cables in the Melbourne Age' of 29 April. The 'Age' report suggests that its publication of the cables shows that previous statements by the Prime Minister and by me relating to the cables are 'not correct'. The quote from  Mr Whitlam  on which the 'Age ' and Opposition critics rely is as follows- and I quote  Mr Whitlam  'swords: 
Of course I have noticed suggestions that there was some difference in the tone of the communications I sent to Hanoi and Saigon. 
Later on  Mr Whitlam  said: 
. there is no truth whatever in the allegations that the honourable member for Kooyong has made. He has even purported to quote from a cable. The quotation which he purports to make is inaccurate. 
And that is true. What the Opposition and the Age' have attempted to do is to separate the cables of 2 April from the Prime Minister's letters of 13 March. However, as both the cables make clear, their principal purpose- and it was stated in the first paragraph of each- was to reinforce the position expressed in the Prime Minister's letter of 13 March' to each party. It is perfectly clear that the Prime Minister was referring to both letters and cables when using the word 'communications'. Both the 'Age' and the Opposition conveniently ignored what the Prime Minister said in answer to a question by  Mr Peacock  on 8 April referring again to the communications to Hanoi and Saigon. The Prime Minister said: 
There have been communications certainly in the last 3 to 4 weeks but there were also communications 2 years ago in the middle of 1973 and they have been to both sides. They are not in the same terms because while it is true that there have been gross breaches of the Paris Accords by both North and South Vietnam and by the Provisional Revolutionary Government and perhaps by the United States of America, nevertheless the breaches have not been all of the same kind. 
I repeat that the Prime Minister said there that there was a difference in the cables and he gave the reasons. Let me repeat again what the Prime Minister said about the communications. He said: 
They are not in the same terms. 
Taken together the 2 communications to Saigon and the 2 communications to Hanoi are indeed substantially the same'- that is, they are the same in substance. The texts have now appeared widely in newspapers and there is no question that some people, including members of the Opposition, are determined to cling to the admitted fact that they are not identical as meaning that they are not the same in substance. All reason and logic will not change their preconceived and prejudicial view. 
A great deal has been made of the sentence in the cable to Hanoi which reads: 
We appreciate that Thieu has given no indications that he is willing to do that and the Australian Government understands the sense of frustration which has given rise to renewed recourse to military pressure on Thieu although it cannot condone that recourse. 
Much criticism has been made of the word understands' although Opposition spokesmen frequently tend to leave off the final phrase which reads 'although it cannot condone that recourse'. The Opposition contends that the word 'understands' represents Australian approval of North Vietnamese actions. Perhaps if I were to make an analogous statement about events a little closer to home it might display the absurdity of the Opposition's position. If I say that 'I understand the sense of frustration at  being out of office which gives rise to members of the Opposition making untruthful statements in an attempt to undermine this Government although I cannot condone that recourse', would any person seriously believe that my use of the word 'understand' in that context means that I approve of the contemptible course of action that the Opposition is presently engaged in? Of course not. My statement makes it clear to anyone with even a modest grasp of the English language that I do not- I repeat 'not'- condone the action that I have described, as indeed the Prime Minister made it quite clear that the Australian Government did not condone the recourse to military action undertaken by the North Vietnamese and the Provisional Revolutionary Government. 
Further criticism has been levelled at the section of the cable which says: 
The Australian Government believes that it would have a most favourable effect if the PRG were to make it clear that recent military operations had had the aim of applying pressure to secure the observance of the ignored political provisions of the Paris agreements and that the operations would cease when satisfactory assurances were offered by Saigon that these political provisions would be implemented. 
It is suggested that this particular statement represents advice to the PRG as to the way in which it might conduct a public relations campaign. Of course this interprets the statement as meaning that the PRG should make it clear to the world at large. In fact it is obvious that this suggestion, which was designed to stop the fighting and bloodshed, had to be made clear in the first instance to the Government in Saigon. However, the Opposition has never shrunk from basing any campaign on misconstruction of Government statements. The Opposition has been keen to ignore the statement which says: 
. the foregoing approach may be interpreted by the DRV and the PRG as an attempt to cut across an inevitable military victory. 
If Opposition claims that we support Hanoi were correct we surely would not have been making any such approach but would have been refraining from doing anything which might have impeded military victory. Further evidence of our desire to stop the fighting and support the implementation of the Paris Peace Agreements was indicated by my reaction to a statement issued on 9 April by  President  Giscard d 'Estaing of France who said: 
To put an end to the suffering of the South Vietnamese people ... to allow it to preserve the characteristics to which it is attached, there exists no solution other than the urgent application of the provisions set out in Article 12 of the Paris Accords envisaging the undertaking of a political solution and which stipulates: in a spirit of conciliation and without seeking mutual elimination. This solution requires the setting up of a national council of reconciliation composed of 3 equal parties. For this procedure to take place political authority must be exercised in Saigon exclusively by persons who make known their will to carry it out. Refusal to make the changes necessary to begin the search for the only political solution henceforth possible, whatever the obvious difficulties, will result only in the misfortune of the Vietnamese people and the disappearance of the chances which remain for it to preserve the diversity of its beliefs and characteristics. 
Because of my concern for the necessity to help stop the fighting I issued the following statement the next day. Let me quote it in full. It is headed The Paris Agreements' and states: 
The Foreign Minister,  Senator Don  Willesee, said today that the Australian Government welcomed  President  Giscard d 'Estaing 's call in Paris on 9 April for the urgent application of Article 12 of the Paris agreements. This article provides for the establishment of a National Council of National Reconciliation and Concord in South Vietnam. 

 Senator Willesee said that the Australian Government had consistently called for the implementation of the political provisions of the Paris agreements, particularly Article 12, as well as for the implementation of the military provisions of the Agreements. 
He recalled that the Prime Minister had made clear Australia's position in respect of breaches of the Paris Agreements in his letters of 13 March to  President  Thieu and Foreign Minister Trinh. These positions had been reemphasised in telegrams to Saigon and Hanoi early in April. 

 Senator Willesee reaffirmed the Government's hope that the parties to the conflict will soon resume working towards a peaceful and enduring settlement. 
There has already been too much bloodshed, misery and destruction',  Senator Willesee  said. 'The sooner the parties respect all aspects of the Paris agreements, the sooner this human tragedy will end '. 
I now come to the demand by the Opposition spokesman for foreign affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, that I should resign on the basis that I have misled and deceived the Parliament. I can only say that  Mr Peacock  bases his charge on 3 statements I made in the Senate. The 3 statements as set out in  Mr Peacock's  call for my resignation are as follows: On page 853 of Hansard of 9 April 1975 this statement appears: 
I have seen the cables. There is not one atom of truth-- 
At page 854 of Hansard of 9 April 1975 this statement appears: 
I have read them before and I have read them again this morning. The statements that have been made are quite untrue. 
At page 931 of Hansard of 10 April 1975 this statement appears: 
I said last night that the Prime Minister had said there is not one atom of truth in  Mr Peacock's  statement. Honourable senators should stop basing their questions on a lie. 

 Mr Peacock's statement then went on to say: 
It is now quite clear who was telling the lie. 

 Mr Peacock is particularly adept at quoting out of context. It will be seen that the person guilty of deception is  Mr Peacock  and not I. Let me put the quotations in context. The first one makes it quite clear that I was referring to a quotation which  Mr Peacock  had made the previous day in the House of Representatives. He said: 
I submit that further on in this cable words to this effect are used: 'We understand that for public relations purposes it has to be said that pressure is being applied to the Saigon Government to get it to implement the Paris Accords: ' 
That is what he said and not what he inferred, as  Senator Greenwood  tried to say. He said that in the cable these words or words to this effect were used: 
We understand that for public relations purposes it has to be said that pressure is being applied to the Saigon Government to get it to implement the Paris Accords. 
In referring to that particular statement by  Mr Peacock,  I said: 
The purported quotation from the cable is just plain wrong. 
It is wrong. One cannot find anything like those words in the cables that we sent to our ambassadors. Now I add the Peacock quotation. After I had said: 'The purported quotation from the cable is just plain wrong', I said, as  Mr Peacock  has quoted: 
I have seen the cables. There is not one atom of truth - 
At that stage  Senator Sim  interjected, which is not unusual, and my sentence was never finished: The next quotation was again a reference to  Mr Peacock's  purported quotation of the words appearing in the cable. In context it reads: 
I have seen these cables. I say that those words did not appear in those cables. 
What is deceitful about that? What is wrong about that? Those words do not appear in the cables. Then I said what  Mr Peacock  has quoted me as saying, namely: 
I have read them before and I have read them again this morning. The statements that have been made are quite untrue. 
They are untrue. It does not matter how one looks through the cables, those words or words to that effect do not appear in the cables. The last quotation refers to the words which  Mr Peacock  purported to quote from the cable to Hanoi. In context the quotation is as follows: 
The point that honourable senators opposite are getting at is that  Mr Peacock  made the very definite statement about the words that were in the cable to North Vietnam. 
Then  Mr Peacock's  quotation comes in again: 
I said last night that the Prime Minister had said that there is not one atom of truth in  Mr Peacock  's statement. Honourable senators should stop basing their questions on a lie. 
They were basing their questions on a lie. I repeat that those words or words to that effect do not appear in the letters or in the cables. At no stage did we ever say or intimate that we were merely sending a cable or instructions to South Vietnam for the purposes of publicity. Honourable senators will recall that the last time the Opposition called for my resignation was over the Ermolenko affair. Perhaps I should remind honourable senators that far from being a matter for resigning, my actions in that affair led not only to  Mr Ermolenko  now being present in Australia but also to his parents being here. Indeed, it permitted concert goers in Melbourne last week to hear the Ermolenkos, father and son, play a Bach double violin concerto at a very successful concert. I can only say that this call for my resignation by  Mr Peacock  has even less basis than the previous call for my resignation over the Ermolenko affair. 
I want to make it clear by way of summary that in dealing with this matter of the communications to Hanoi and the communications to Saigon and deciding whether they were substantially the same, it is important to realise that one may consider the letters of 1 3 March separately, or the letters of 13 March combined with the cables of 2 April together, but one cannot do what both the Opposition and the 'Age' newspaper have sought to do; that is, to consider the cables of 2 April whilst disregarding the letters of 13 March. The cables contained supplementary instructions to the Australian ambassadors based clearly on the foundation of the letters addressed to the Ministers. The fact that the letters are the basis for the cables is explicitly stated in the first paragraph of each cable. That is the crux of the matter. Whilst I do not expect an Opposition blinded by prejudice to accept this, I am sure that the Australian public will have no difficulty in appreciating it. 
In a more general sense, the thrust of the Labor Party's policy, both in Opposition and in government, has been to stop the fighting and to get negotiations under way. Equally, the thrust of the policy of the Liberal and Country Parties has been quite the opposite. As a government they denounced all negotiations and encouraged every escalation of the war. In this sense, and this sense alone, the policies of the Opposition succeeded; ours failed. We always sought a political settlement. We were urging it 3 weeks before Saigon fell. We failed. For as long as they held power the Parties opposite sought a military solution. They have now got it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
.  The office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs received on 24 February a letter from  Mr Galbally  addressed to the Minister and dated 20 February. The letter included a request that the Government communicate to the Singapore Government its concern over the trial and subsequent sentencing of  Mr Tan  Wah Piow. A reply has been sent to  Mr Galbally. 
The Government has received a number of reports from the Australian High Commission in Singapore on the proceedings of the trial. It would be improper for the Government to comment publicly on the conduct of the trial. 
The Australian Government has no standing to intervene in the matter, which the Singapore Government would regard as falling entirely within its own jurisdiction. The Australian Government's concern with issues of human rights and civil liberties is well known to the Singapore authorities. 
On 17 April,  Senator Davidson  asked me the following question without notice: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I ask whether the Minister has received a copy of the statement by  President  Marcos of the Philippines which received some radio coverage this morning and which in part conveys a change of attitude towards the U.S. and a possible vacation by the U.S. of bases and interests in the Philippines and further makes reference to possible Japanese involvement? Has the Minister received a copy of this statement? Has he had an opportunity of studying it, and can he tell me what would be the implications of such a move for Australia? Is the Department proposing any conversations relating to this situation 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
President Marcos has been reported on several occasions as having made statements foreshadowing a reassessment of U.S.-Philippine relations. He has also been reported as suggesting that the Philippines Government might have to take over the United States bases in the Philippines if this were in the national interest. In other recent statements, however, President Marcos has referred to the United States as the Philippines most valuable ally, although he has also indicated that the Philippines will be seeking new security arrangements which should encompass a firm and clear commitment by the United States to assist the Philippines in case of external aggression. On 16 April President Marcos was reported as stating publicly that some Americans appeared to think that security might be better left in the hands of other countries; it was in this context that he referred to Japan. 
The question of Philippines-U.S. relations is a matter for those two governments. The suggestion that the present relationship should be reviewed is not a new one. Exploratory discussions on both the military and economic relationship have been held over a period of years. Australia has been able to keep in touch with the progress of these discussions through normal diplomatic channels. 
-On 2 1 April 1975,  Senator Gietzelt  asked the following question, without notice: 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted the statement made by the Christian Democratic Party, which is the largest political party in Chile, that the present regime in Chile is fascist, tyrannical and brutal and that the people have, the urgent task of restoring democracy in that uphappy land? Will the Minister give some consideration to conveying moral support to the parties, legal and illegal, in Chile as they endeavour to re-establish democratic procedures in that country and defeat the military dictatorship? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has made very clear its disapproval of the military overthrow of the democratically elected Chilean Government of President Allende in 1973, as well as its disapproval of the treatment of opponents of the present Chilean Government. Every opportunity has been taken and will continue to be taken by our Embassy in 
Santiago to make known the concern felt in Australia at the plight of opponents of the present Government. 
Aboriginals: Lands Held in Trust (Question No. 508) 
The Opposition's amendment numbered 43 on the list proposes to leave out of the proposed Senate ballot paper, Form E, the directions to the voter which are appropriate to optional preferential voting for a Senate election and to reinsert directions for full preferential marking. Similarly, the Opposition's amendment numbered 44 proposes to leave out of the proposed House of Representatives ballot paper, Form F, directions which are appropriate to optional preferential voting for the House of Representatives and to reinsert directions for full preferential voting. This is in line with the Opposition's objection to the optional preferential system which, for reasons already enunciated, the Government desires to introduce for both Senate and House of Representatives elections. It is consequential on what the Senate has decided. The Government will vote to have it retained but will not divide the Committee. 
Clause 50 of the Bill proposes to omit paragraph (d) of section 136A which refers to postal ballot papers posted or delivered to any divisional returning officer or any assistant returning officer or presiding officer in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 92 of the Act. This proposed omission accords with the proposed omission of section 92 (2) of the Act by clause 30 of the Bill and is in line with the Government's proposition that completed postal votes be transmitted to the divisional returning officer or the division concerned rather than being posted or delivered to another official for onwards transmission. We seek to have the clause retained in the Bill. The amendment it proposes is consequential on clause 30 which was dealt with now so long ago. We will not seek to divide the Senate on the clause. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 51 (Return of writ for election of Senators). 
Clause 47 relates to the Senate counting. It would have been necessary had the other two clauses been carried. It deals only with the Senate. The Government will seek to have it included but we will not divide the Committee because it is a consequential amendment relating to a decision made by the Committee in respect of the previous 2 clauses. 
Clause negatived. 
Clauses 48 and 49 negatived. 
Clause 50 (Scrutiny prior to receipt of absent voters' ballot-papers, etc.). 
Australia has no secret military agreements with Thailand. It is, of course, associated with Thailand through the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. As far as I know there has been no request from Thailand for additional foreign forces to be stationed in Thailand. Our associations are continuing to grow in the field of aid and will continue to do so. The most heartening thing about Thailand, I think, is the recent election which at long last installed a civilian government there. 
POLITICAL FUNDS 
-I saw the statement that  Mr Fraser  made in the House of Representatives yesterday. During the debate he said that  Dr Cairns  had written to  Mr Nien,  the Charge d 'Affaires of the Embassy of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and said in his reply  . . . that he has received a letter of 10 January 1975, from  Mr Nien,  setting out the 2 points proposal of the PRG. He said that he had passed it on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and asked him to give it a sympathetic eye and ear'.  Mr Fraser  went on to say: 
Honourable members might wonder what the 2 points of the PRG program were. Those 2 points involved the resignation of President Thieu and the end of all United States support for the Government of South Vietnam. 
I am quoting directly the words of  Mr Fraser.  I am not, as was said last night, inferring what he said. I repeat what he said: 
Those 2 points involved the resignation of President Thieu and the end of all United States support for the Government of South Vietnam. 

 Mr Fraser continued: 
These 2 demands were both contrary to the Paris Agreements. The Paris Agreements said nothing about the resignation of President Thieu. The Paris Agreements specifically allowed for continued United States support. Here was the Deputy Prime Minister supporting a proposal, which was, in itself, in breach of the Paris Agreements, in the interests of North Vietnam and the PRG and against the interests of the South. 

 Mr Fraser misled the House in relation to the substance of this letter. Let me read the letter. I shall read it in full to avoid the practice so much loved by the Opposition of quoting out of context.  Dr Cairns'  letter read: 
Dear  Mr. Nien, 
I have received your letter of 10th January, 1975, setting out the two point proposal of the P.R.G. and I have passed it  on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  and asked him to give a sympathetic eye and ear to your request. 
What was the letter? This is the letter from the Charge d 'Affaires to  His Excellency Dr J.  F. Cairns - 
-I do not know whether  Mr Fraser  had it or not. I do not know what corruption goes on between you and the Public Service in getting these things. 
I do not know whether he did have the letter or whether he did not. If he had it he certainly did not quote from it. But what has that got to do with it? What has it got to do with it when he turns around and says that this is what - 
-That is right. 
-Last night  Senator Wright  asked me a question about the visit of  Mr El  Surani from Cairo. It will be recalled that I was uncertain about  Mr El  Surani 's title and the places he is to visit. I take this opportunity of giving  Senator Wright  some more detailed information. A visa to visit Australia has been issued to  Mr El  Surani.  Mr El  Surani will make a private visit to Australia. There is to be no Government sponsorship.  Mr El  Surani is a representative of the Arab League in Cairo. He is also a representative of the Palestine Liberation Organisation in Cairo. He applied to visit Australia as a representative of the Arab League. The Arab League is a loose association of Arab countries. Another matter on which I was groping for information last night and was not able to find it is the fact that he is scheduled to arrive early in June. He will be visiting India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a communique issued at the twenty-fourth meeting of the ANZUS Council held in Washington on 24 and 25 April 1975 together with a statement by me on that meeting. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Victoria together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners, and move: 
That the report and maps be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23 A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners, and move: 
That the report and maps be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
One side of the argument has been put by  Senator McLaren  and the other side has been put by  Senator Withers  and  Senator Missen.  It is true that this Committee accepted an earlier Opposition amendment that the closing of polling booths should remain at 8 p.m. Clause 40 is a new clause in respect of electoral considerations in Australia. We have not previously had mobile polling booth facilities at hospitals. I have always thought that this was long overdue. It does not seem to me that it is necessary to have the same polling hours at a hospital as we have at polling booths.  Senator McLaren  has pointed out that at hospitals the voters are already there as patients. Mobile polling booths will go around and visit the hospitals. Obviously the voting will be under the control of the returning officers, which is quite the opposite of the situation at a normal polling booth. There the flow of voting cannot be regulated because it is a matter of people just turning up at the desks; but in a hospital it is in the hands of the electoral officers. 

 Senator Missen has said that there should be consistency. Maybe it is fine to have consistency, but I do not think it is necessary to be absolutely consistent in this respect. We would insist that this clause stand, in spite of the fact that the Committee has retained the old polling booth hours by agreeing to an earlier amendment to delete clause 39. It is consequential in a sense because the Committee has already put 6 p.m. in one clause and it should go in another part of the Bill; but, because it is new and because it deals with a special type of people- sick people who are unable to go to polling booths- I do not think there would be any harm at all in leaving the closing hour at 6 p.m. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 41 agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
Section 1 IS of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2) and substituting the following subsections: 
The presiding officer- 
shall put to every person claiming to vote (not being an elector enrolled by virtue of section 41A) the following questions: 
Is your real place of living within the Division of ( here state the name of the Division in respect of which the elector claims to vote)? 
(if the question numbered (i) is answered in the negative)- Was your real place of living at any time within the last 3 months within the Division of (here state name of the Division in respect of which the elector claims to vote)? and 
may, and at the request of any scrutineer shall, also put to any person claiming to vote all or any of the following questions: (iti) Have you already voted either here or elsewhere in this election (or in these elections, as the case requires)? 
Are you of the full age of 1 8 years? 
Have you the status of a British subject? 
Are you qualified to vote? and 
The question as to a person's place of living relates to the section that a person must have resided in the area for 3 months.  Senator Withers  is right, it is part of the qualification. The reason we want to take this question out of the mandatory section is that when a person goes in to vote, someone confronts him and says: 'Have you already voted either here or elsewhere today?' There is a lot of resentment about this. The situation is that if a person were deliberately trying to vote twice, if his morality were such that he would vote twice, I doubt whether he would answer truthfully anyway. If he is asked, 'Have you voted earlier?', and if he is a rogue, he is hardly likely to answer: Yes, sir, I have, ' and will not vote again. He will not put himself in that situation. The whole point of the question falls down. The Electoral Office advised me that people resent this question. I put two points. One is that to make the question mandatory is to make mandatory something which upsets people. People can be sensitive on this point. Secondly, if a person is a rogue he is not going to tell the truth anyway. If a person connives at one crime he certainly is going to connive at another. Of course, after an election, as honourable senators know, the rolls are combed through to find the people who did not vote. If somebody appears to have voted twice the matter is more carefully checked than ever. 
If honourable senators opposite think about this matter a bit I think they will not persist with their amendment. Think about it. Firstly, everybody is confronted with what I think is a bit of an insulting question. There seems to be an inference that you are the type of person who might have done what is suggested. Secondly, it is a pretty useless sort of a question because a person who is going to do what is suggested is not going to tell the truth when asked about it. So I must insist that the clause remains as it is. I think no harm will be done. If there is some suspicious circumstance it will come out in following up the other questions. The electoral officer concerned can still pursue the matter if in his view somebody is acting in a suspicious manner. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Withers ')  be agreed to. 
I cannot win tonight,  Mr Chairman.  The Opposition chided me for not saying anything when I have been sitting here giving everybody else an opportunity to speak on what is the most important clause in the Bill.  Senator Baume  said that I chided him on one occasion. I was correct. I chide him again. He was looking at the amendments relating to the counting of votes. If he looks at clause 48 of the Bill, it is a very simple amendment explaining what the situation is. It is not a difficult clause to read. There are one or two matters I wish to raise before I launch into the main part of my remarks. Firstly, I intend to refer to a set of figures- I am in the queue to give figures tonight- but they are figures relating to one year.  Senator Baume  made great play of the fact that, in relation to informal votes, although there had been 74 candidates on one occasion, there had been previous years when the number of informal votes was higher. He argued very forcibly along those lines for a long time. Then at the conclusion of his speech he said that a tremendous campaign had been waged by the Electoral Office at that time which had a bearing on the matter.  Senator Baume  is completely correct. There was a very vigorous campaign conducted by the Electoral Office and I think that campaign held down the figure for informal votes to 12 per cent or so. 
On the question of speed, although I do not think that speed should override everything, it is irritating to have to wait for a result. In fact, it is more than irritating because the work of government can be held up. Speed is a consideration, but I agree that the Act should not be altered radically merely for that reason. The Opposition has asked for proof that this amendment will speed up counting. I ask where is the Opposition's proof that the amendment will not speed it up? There are no electronic scanners available to check the validity of a ballot paper. That must be done by the old one mug-power engine with 2 eyes. If one has to check from one to seventy-five, or even from one to fifty or sixty, it has to be done by counting one, two, three and so on down the ballot paper to make sure that it is a valid vote. I suggest that that is very much slower than checking from one to ten, as would have been the case in the election that was referred to, or from one to five if it had been a normal year in which there was not a double dissolution. I put it to the Committee, in all fairness, that it must be faster to check the tens of thousands of votes in New South Wales by checking from one to five than it is to check from one to seventy-four- and there is no guarantee that the number of candidates will be held down to seventy-four, in view of the amendments that the Opposition has thrown out. I suggest that, prima facie at least, there is a case to say that this would be a very much faster method than checking right through the ballot paper. 
Another matter has been raised by  Senator Walsh.  He said that the number of candidates does not bring about an increase in the informal vote. Why is it that in elections for the House of Representatives, when there are always only two, three, four or five candidates, invariably the informal vote is markedly lower than it is in the Senate? 

 - Senator Missen says that it may be a lack of interest, but I put it that year after year when the number of candidates for the House of Representatives has been two, three or four as against twenty-seven to seventy-five candidates for the Senate, the informal vote in the House of Representatives elections has been consistently so much lower.  Senator Missen  says that it may be lack of interest. Neither he nor I can look into the minds of electors, but if I concede to him that there may be something in lack of interest then he certainly should concede to me that the number of candidates appears to play a part. 
This clause proposes an amendment to section 123 of the principal Act, which deals with the method of marking of votes at a Senate election. In the Government's proposed amendment, optional preferential marking of the ballot papers will be substituted for full preferential marking. If that clause is omitted the effect will be that the present unwieldy system for the marking of Senate ballot papers will continue. Surely nobody will argue that it is not a very unwieldy system. Under the optional preferential system of voting which is proposed, although it is mandatory to vote only for the number of persons to be elected- one in the case of a House of Representatives election and five in the case of a normal periodical Senate election- every voter has the option of indicating further preferences for some or all of the remaining candidates. That is where the optional part comes in. Insofar as such additional preferences were needed to determine the result, they would, of course, be counted. An important aspect of the system is that voters, while having the right to show preferences for all candidates should they so desire, are not compelled to do so and therefore are not compelled to vote for candidates for whom they have no preference at all. 

 Senator Withers said that it should not be beyond the wit of people to mark a ballot paper from No. 1 to No. 74, from No. 1 to No. 57, or whatever it might be. What I put to the Committee is this: Why should any elector be compelled to try to carry out an impossibility? I suggest to the Committee that it is quite impossible when an elector goes beyond the first few candidates for him to say to himself honestly: 'I want Joe Blow as No. 73 ahead of Fred Nurk as No. 74'. The only way a full preferential voting system will work is when the elector has perfect knowledge. When a person has to vote for only two or three people in a very small committee, he can honestly say that he prefers A over B and B over C. Even in our own party rooms where we vote for people with whom we work all the year round, people who have the same ideology and people who have the same types of friendships and all the rest of it, we cannot conscientiously say after we get up into double figures that we want Joe Blow as No. 17 ahead of Fred Nurk as No. 1 8. It is just an impossibility. 
Compare our position with that of the ordinary elector who goes along and votes for senators. Pardon me if I upset the ego of honourable senators opposite on this matter. The ordinary elector is voting for somebody whom he has never seen and has rarely heard of. He may know a couple of the sitting senators, but he does not know them personally. He has not heard the candidates take part in debate. He knows very little about them. Yet he has to put the candidates in order conscientiously- not No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3, but from No. 1 to No. 73, as in the case of the Senate election for New South Wales, or whatever the number of candidates might be. Often the number is 27, 35, 46 and so on. The people are being compelled to do something which is quite beyond their wit, something which is quite beyond their ability. I certainly could not do it, and I have been interested in politics for a year or two now. I may know the sitting senators; but I have never seen or heard a television appearance or a radio broadcast or addresses at public meetings by my opponents or, if I am not involved in the election, by the people in whom I am interested, because generally I have been out campaigning. How could I honestly say that I would prefer someone as No. 27 ahead of someone as No. 28? 
The suggestion is that we should say to the people: 'If you vote for one person in the case of the House of Representatives, if that is what you conscientiously want, that vote will be counted '. What is wrong with that? In the case of a Senate election the number to be elected is five. So, to make the system workable, the elector has to go further than voting for one person. We say: 'All right, you vote for the 5 people that you want elected'. He will not have to go on- unless he wants to- with the ridiculous procedure of going right down the list in an attempt to give a percentage point to somebody for whom the electors wants to vote. I repeat that the only way the full preferential voting system can work is if an elector has perfect knowledge. He can have that perfect knowledge only if there is a small number of candidates and he is intimately associated with them and knows their work. 
Let me refer to the experience of the 1 974 Senate election in New South Wales. This is the one that has been mentioned so many times. There were 73 candidates on the ballot paper. That election highlights the absurdity of requiring voters to indicate a preference for all candidates. It would be a mammoth task indeed for any personthis is my point- even if he knew the individual candidates, to work out and to show the consecutive order. I know that 'how to vote' cards are used and that many people follow them as best they can. They certainly help them in respect of the formality of voting. But again one can hardly say that electors are exercising great knowledge in an endeavour to get this percentage point over some other candidate. There is no doubt that the greater the number of candidates the more likely it is that people will fall into error in marking the ballot paper. That is just a question of mechanics. The more one has to go through a ballot paper, the more chance there is that one will make a mistake. This may occur at a stage of marking a preference which might never be counted, but the consequence is that the whole ballot paper is invalid. 
It is clear that under a full preferential voting system there is a relationship between the number of candidates on the ballot paper and informality, simply because there are a number of voters who fall into error at each consecutive preference. I know that the 1974 Senate election was an example of this relationship. I think we all hope, if we are sincere about this, that this will not occur again. The results of the 1 974 Senate election, including the concurrent holding of a House of Representatives election and 4 referendums, may be of interest to honourable senators. These are the figures for the last election.  Senator Withers  conceded earlier that when one is looking at figures all sorts of things have to be considered. I hesitate to argue or to draw conclusions on his latest figures because they go back to 50 and 60 years ago. It is pretty difficult to ascertain the feeling which obtained in the situation which existed at that time. In the 1974 Senate election in New South Wales, with 73 candidates, the informal vote reached 12.3 per cent or a staggering 332 818 ballot papers. The percentage was 12.3 or about 1 V4 quotas. In Victoria, where there were 48 candidates, there were 230 474 informal ballot papers, representing 11.13 per cent, which again was well over a quota. In Queensland, with 25 candidates, the number of informal ballot papers was 65 941, or 6 per cent. In South Australia, with 38 candidates, informal ballot papers totalled 82 191, or 11.38 per cent. In Western Australia, where there were 29 candidates, the informal figure was 60 136, or 10.39 per cent. In Tasmania, with 32 candidates, there were 26 666 informal ballot papers, representing 1 1 .2 1 per cent. The overall percentage was 10.77 per cent, which accounted for 798 126 Senate ballot papers being wasted at the 1974 Senate elections. 
There is a correlation between the number of candidates and the number of informal votes. I have given the figures for one election. There would be the same sort of atmosphere in the States other than New South Wales, where there was a high publicity drive which did hold down the informal vote to 12.3 per cent; but even in that State there is a correlation between the number of candidates and the informal votes. 
Queensland is sui generis. Nobody quite knows why, but it happens consistently. 
-Yes. It happens consistently in Queensland. There is just no explanation. A further example might be seen by taking the 1970 Senate election which was held alone. In New South Wales there were 1 9 Senate candidates and the percentage of informal votes was 10.08 per cent. In Victoria there were 25 candidates and informality was 11.41 per cent. Queensland had 15 candidates, with an informal vote of 1 7.9 per cent. South Australia had 1 3 candidates, with 6.94 per cent informality. Western Australia had 15 candidates, with 7.59 per cent informality. Tasmania had 14 candidates, with 6.2 per cent informality. 
The proposed optional preferential system, which allows for optional marking of preferences beyond the number of candidates to be elected, is fair and it eases the burden on the voters. The Government believes that this system would be welcomed by the majority of electors, particularly after their experience at the 1974 Senate elections when they were required to indicate preferences for an unprecedented number of candidates in most States. The elimination of the need compulsorily to show a preference for every candidate, including candidates towards whom the voter may even be quite hostile is, we believe, a welcome innovation. It is for these reasons that we oppose the Opposition's amendment. 
I can remember looking at ballot papers with a whole slate left out. Sometimes the unmarked positions were those of Democratic Labor Party candidates and sometimes of Communist Party candidates. People would say that they were not going to vote for those people. We in this chamber have had a good deal of experience. How often do we find that people do not vote because they say to themselves: 'We have to vote for every one of the 50 candidates'. Actually they vote for only 5 candidates in a Senate election, but in order to make the vote formal they have to fill in the whole of the ballot paper. I put it to the Committee that this is an absurd situation. I think that the proposal in the Bill will speed up counting. I think the proposal no doubt will ease the burden on the elector. But, above all, it is ridiculous to demand by law that an elector will go into a ballot box and attempt conscientiously to do something which is quite impossible. By this amendment the Opposition is asking him to carry out an impossibility. 
Question put: 
That clause 45 stand as printed. 
Clause 46 deals with optional preferential voting for the House of Representatives. If this clause were to be omitted from the Bill the effect would be that full preferential voting as presently enforced for House of Representatives elections would be retained. It is true of course that far fewer candidates generally stand at House of Representatives elections than at Senate elections. But nevertheless the principle of compelling persons to vote for candiates for whom they have no preference still applies. Under the proposed optional preferential system the voter at a House of Representatives election must indicate his first preference for one candidate and may indicate his further preferences for some or all of the remaining candidates as he so desires. Where it is necessary to count such preferences as are shown to determine the result, they are of course counted. 
The important thing is that a vote is not rejected outright because a voter failed by inadvertence or otherwise to indicate an order of preference for all candidates as is the case under the full preferential system, despite the fact that the majority of House of Representatives seats are decided on the count of first preferences. Under the optional preferential system, to the extent that preferences beyond the first are required to be counted, each ballot paper in the count is counted so far as the voter wishes to indicate a preference. I put it to honourable senators: What could be fairer than that? I believe the clause should remain in the Bill. Even though there is a slightly different argument with regard to the Senate, the principle remains the samethe principle whereby people are forced to number their preferences right down to 3, 4 or 5, trying to decide one against the other and sometimes are forced to vote for somebody for whom they have no time and would not want to vote for under any circumstances. 
Question put: 
That  clause  46 stand as  printed. 
Paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) of section 141 of the Act refers, inter alia, to sub-section (2) of section 92 of the Act. Accordingly, in consequence of the Government's proposed omission of that sub-section, clause 51 proposes to omit the words 'or posted or delivered to any Divisional Returning Officer or any Assistant Returning Officer or Presiding Officer in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section ninety-two of this Act'. Again the amendment is consequential. We will vote for it but we will not insist on a division. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 52 negatived. 
Clauses 53 to 56- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 57. 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (3) the word "or"; and 
by inserting after paragraph (a) of sub-section (3) the following paragraph: (aa) an article, report, letter or other matter, if the issue of the newspaper in which it appears contains a statement to the effect that the editor or proprietor of the newspaper accepts responsibility for the views expressed in the article, report, letter or matter; or'. 
Section 164 ( 1 ) of the principal Act reads: 
On and after the date of issue and before the return of any writ for the election of a member of the Senate, or of the House of Representatives, or for the taking of any referendum vote, every article report, letter or other matter commenting upon any candidate, or political party, or the issues being submitted to the electors, printed and published in any newspaper, circular, pamphlet, or 'dodger' shall be signed by the author or authors, giving his or their true name and address or names and addresses at the end of the said article, report, letter, or other matter, or where part only of the article, report, letter, or other matter . . . appears in any issue of a newspaper, circular, pamphlet, or 'dodger', at the end of that part. 
The sub-section then states the penalty attached. Sub-section (3) reads: 
This section shall not apply to the publication in a newspaper of- 
a leading article; or 
an article in a newspaper which consists solely of a report of a meeting and does not contain any comment . . . upon any candidate, or political party, or the issues being submitted to the electors. 
If the  speaker  himself makes a comment it could be reported. Sub-clause (d) of clause 57 seeks to insert after paragraph (a) of sub-section (3) the following paragraph:  (aa) an article, report, letter or other matter, if the issue of the newspaper in which it appears contains a statement to the effect that the editor or proprietor of the newspaper accepts responsibility for the views expressed in the article, report, letter or matter; 
The reason for this is that newspaper editors have complained from time to time that the strict application of the provision that every article, report, letter or other matter of political content printed or published during the specified period must be signed by the authors can prevent the publication of some articles, particularly those transmitted from other States. In an endeavour to overcome the problem, there have been instances in which statements have been published in newspapers that, for example, the editor accepts responsibility for all matters of political content appearing therein. In some ways the clause is validating a practice. It is a new provision which we are attempting to insert in the Act. We will vote for it. Like all new things, I expect that somebody will oppose it. 
Question put: 
That clause 37 parts (c) and (d) stand as printed. 
May I suggest to  Senator Hall  that, as I am only representing the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in this chamber, the point will be brought to the Minister's attention. The situation now is that the Bill has been pretty badly mutilated. The Senate does not have the final say on it. The Bill must go back to the House of Representatives. Rather than  Senator Hall  persisting with his amendment, which the Government would have to vote against, simple though it is, I suggest that we take note of it and let the House of Representatives take it into cognisance when the Bill is returned to that House. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
The amendments which the Opposition has succeeded in having passed in this chamber are mainly those proposed by the Opposition without success in the House of Representatives when the Bill was debated in that House on 10 April last. Apart from provisions concerning mobile polling booths, hospitals and institutions practically none of the Government's major electoral reforms contained in this Bill has been supported by the Opposition in this chamber. Examples would be optional preferential voting, Party affiliations on ballot papers and an earlier close off time for the receipt of postal votes. Although the Opposition has accepted quite a number of the less important provisions of the Bill its amendments strip the Bill of vital measures required to bring about the Government's program of electoral reform. I remind honourable senators that this is the second time this Bill has been before this chamber. On the first occasion on 28 November 1974 the Senate rejected the Bill in total. On this second occasion substantial amendments have been passed. I do not intend to forecast what action the House of Representatives will take when the Bill is returned to that House with the amendments, but I can say that the Bill in its amended form can only be regarded as unacceptable by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Pursuant to subsection 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-74  I  table a determination by the Remuneration Tribunal in relation to the position of Chairman (full-time) of the Australian Shipping Commission. 
-I think most of those matters would come within the responsibility of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The general situation is that immediately the Government saw that things were going so badly in Indo-China it advised students whose temporary visas were to expire at a certain time that this provision no longer applied and that they would be able to stay in Australia for the time being, until they and the Government could see what the situation was. The honourable senator asked about 2 matters, as I remember his question. Firstly, he asked what the Government will do if the students apply to remain in Australia. As in all immigration matters, every case will have to be looked at individually. The second part of the honourable senator's question was a little more specific. He asked if the Government will permit them to remain if they meet the normal criteria. Without committing my colleague on this matter, I think that if the students meet the normal criteria they will be treated as ordinary immigration applicants. 
-Yes, I have had talks with the Prime Minister about this matter. We are following our earlier initiatives with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. He has contacted us. He has a representative in Singapore. I do not know in what other places he may have representatives. We have cabled him telling him that we believe that those refugees who are in Hong Kong and Singapore are under his care and have asked him what he would like us to do about this matter. I would think that when he puts us into the picture the next thing we would do would be to send teams to go through the normal procedures to get the most suitable types of people to make a life in Australia. 
We have not fixed any numbers. As far as I know Canada is the only country which has fixed a number. No previous government in Australia has ever fixed numbers in similar situations. It is very rare to do so. We have never done it, and the Opposition when in government never did it. Very few countries have done this. As I said, I think Canada is the only country which has fixed a number on this occasion. 
-We are not a party principal in this situation. We can only hope that common sense will prevail in a matter about which, at the moment, there is a fair bit of confusion as to why the ship was seized, where it was seized and so on. With respect to the question of our having made contacts in this matter, I hardly think such contacts would be suitable at this stage of the negotiations, anyway. We certainly are in touch with the Americans, not on this matter specifically but generally. We are not in direct touch with the new Cambodian regime. Neither is anybody else because of the situation which exists in Cambodia at the moment. There are some spin-offs attached to this. All I can say is that I hope the countries do get together. Judging by newspaper reports hopes are high that these things will be broken down. I do not see where we can play a role in the matter at the moment. 
For the information of honourable senators  I  present the following 4 reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: Report on certain textile floor coverings dated 7 February 1975; report on fabricated asbestos dated 9 April 1975; report on brucellosis and tuberculosis dated 10 April 1975; and report on floor and wall tiles dated 1 1 April 1975. 
-I have not got those details in my head but I will find out the information as quickly as possible and advise  Senator Wright. 
I will try to remember that litany of questions. The Australian mission in Saigon - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
-The third session of the Law of the Sea Conference in Geneva finished on 9 May. The stage reached was that a single text constituting a possible basis for negotiations leading towards a convention was produced. Of course we will put this text to study before the next meeting. Honourable senators will realise that the text covers a pretty broad base and includes such things as the establishment of an economic zone, the breadth of territorial sea, the right of passage through international straits, rights over the resources of the continental shelf, archipelagos, fisheries, marine pollution, scientific research of the marine environment, and the pressing question of the rights to the resources of the deep sea bed beyond the national jurisdiction. 
Sometimes people think the process is tantalisingly slow, but when one considers the things at which the meetings must look it is fairly understandable. What impressed me at both Law of the Sea Conferences which I attended was that no nation whether it was big or small, landlocked or shelf-locked, and whatever its problems, wanted to see a breakdown of these negotiations. I did not discern in any of them that feeling. None of them envisaged that it would help their country to break down the whole basis of the Conference. There has been a tremendously honest attempt at solving the most tantalising problems that one could possibly get. A further session has been agreed on. It will be held in the early part of 1 976, 1 think in New York. 
-I think the best reports come from the regular annual meetings of the ASEAN Foreign Ministers. They usually hold informal discussions on regional international developments. A recent meeting, held I think a couple of weeks ago, reviewed amongst other things developments in Indo-China and discussed the implications of these developments for South-East Asia. At the conclusion of their meeting the Foreign Ministers expressed the hope that the restoration of peace in Cambodia and in South Vietnam would open up prospects for real peace, progress and stability in SouthEast Asia. They said that their countries were ready to enter into friendly and harmonious relations with each nation in Indo-China. They also reiterated their willingness to co-operate with these countries in the common task of national development for the benefit of their respective peoples and for the greater good of the region. The Ministers recognised the existence of broadly different social systems in South-East Asia but agreed that such differences should not be an obstacle to the development of constructive and mutually beneficial relations. The Ministers reaffirmed the ASEAN commitment to the objective of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South-East Asia and agreed that its relevance for the region was now more evident. The only other point is that they agreed to recommend the holding of an ASEAN summit meeting. 
-No. As I have said before, it was not entirely unexpected. Anybody reviewing what might happen in Indo-China over the last few years must have considered the possibility of Communist victories in South Vietnam and Cambodia. We have been accused at times of saying: 'Well, nothing is any different' and so on. The situation is going to be any different from what was forecast only if and when some of these countries in Indo-China or some other countries move in a certain manner and it is far too early to look at that situation yet. A different situation has been forecast but, as I say, it will depend on what those nations do in respect of other countries or what those other countries do in respect of those nations and how the position develops from then on. If there are any differences, of course we will be watching them all the time. That is what the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence is all about- watching situations not only from year to year but also from day to day. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
The Report was released to the public on 19 December 1974. Copies were sent to all members and senators on the same date. The Report was tabled on 1 1 February 1975. 
to (7) The information in the precise form sought by the honourable senator is not readily available. However, the following table fully sets out the costs incurred by the Commission. Some accounts are still to come to hand and the final expenditure is expected to be in the order of $776,500. 
-I recall that  Senator Greenwood  asked me a question about this matter. I do not recall that it was exactly a month ago. I told him that I would get the details for him. I remember initialling the answer to  Senator Greenwood's  question yesterday, so he should receive it either today or whenever the machinery processes bring it to him.  Senator Greenwood  should know the position in relation to -  Mr O'Donnell  as well as anybody else because it was his Government that withdrew  Mr O'Donnell's  passport in the first place. I do not know why  Senator Greenwood  now suddenly thinks that we have done something radical about  Mr O'Donnell.  We have acted completely correctly because the decision on sanctions against Rhodesia included the question of the issuing of passports. The Liberal Party took this action; we supported it. 
-I do not remember that  Senator Greenwood  asked for that information in his question. I think the wise thing for him to do would be to wait until he gets my written answer and base further questions on that. However, what he has stated is the situation. If there were serious humanitarian grounds an application would be considered. I take it that there are not severe humanitarian grounds, but  Senator Greenwood  will have a written answer to his question shortly. 
-I shall read out from a statement on the question of Southern Rhodesia, which I did not have time to read as the honourable senator was speaking, arising out of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. It reads: 
Australia is concerned that every effort should be made to achieve a peaceful settlement in Southern Rhodesia providing for independence based on majority rule at the earliest possible time. The Government therefore fully supports the current moves by concerned African states towards a constitutional conference between the African National Council and the Smith regime to achieve such a settlement. It concurs with the statement in the Commonwealth Heads of Government communique that if a settlement is not achieved by peaceful means then an intensified arms struggle is inevitable and that the illegal Smith regime must accept moral responsibility for renewed warfare if this should ensue. Australia is prepared to support action for the reinforcement and extention of sanctions. 
-No doubt the honourable senator is aware that on a number of occasions the Australian Government has made known to the Soviet authorities the concern felt in Australia about human rights issues. From the information that he gave in his question I take it that he has read the answer which the Prime Minister gave on 17 April last. There is no doubt that we have made it completely clear not only to the Soviet Union but also to every other country that the loss of civil liberties or the gaolings which are not really acceptable in other countriesI speak, quite generally now- make for difficulties in our relationships with those countries because the Australian public who are used to a form of British justice do not accept these things. I have done this in every country about which we have had complaints, including many of the Asian countries, and so has  Mr Whitlam. 
-I remember that  Senator Greenwood  got very irate when I visited black Africa. He seemed to think that I was letting the team down even by going there, and thereby being the first Australian Minister to visit black Africa. I am sure that my trip there did not start any revolutions and that I did not in any way put Australia in a situation in which it would not want to be. We have made it clear that we will not give arms to these people. We gave the small amount of $ 1 50,000 in aid last year and everybody on the Liberal side became upset about that although it was for humanitarian purposes. It was given to people who had fled from the troubles in Namibia and Mozambique and who were starving in southern Zambia. It is accepted now that people probably are not very interested in what happens on either side, but if they are starving and wounded and we can make some contribution to help them, we do so. Nobody, neither this Government nor anybody else, wants to see resort to armed force. This Government particularly has not in any way suggested armed force or contributed to its use. Having regard to the approach of the Opposition and the Government parties towards Vietnam I would have thought that this would be patently clear. It was the Opposition when in government which resorted to armed force, and it was my Government which stopped it. 
-Senator Greenwood asks whether we will accept war in another country. I can neither accept nor reject it. The question should be whether we would have troops there. That is the only question I can answer. I cannot accept or reject a war which breaks out in some other part of the world. I just point out that it was the Opposition which resorted to armed force, not this Government. 
Pursuant to subsection 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974, I table a determination by the Remuneration Tribunal of remuneration payable, first, to the  Chairman  of the Australian Defence Force Academy Development Council and, secondly, to the part-time members of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
by leave- I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Victoria into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs L. J. Abbott, J. E. Mitchell and D. W. Rawson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into divisions, in their report laid before the Senate on the 14th day of May 1975, and that the names of the divisions suggested in the report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Menzies be substituted for Doncaster and Templestowe. 
by leave- I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of New South Wales into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs R. F. Mallon, L. N. Fletcher and J. B. Enfield, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into divisions, in their report laid before the Senate on the 14th dayofMay 1975, and that names of the divisions suggested in the report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Gilmore be substituted for Eastwood, the name of Evatt be substituted for Toongabbie and the name of Evans be substituted for Concord. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is true that a motion passed in the House of Representatives on 13 September 1973 called for a Royal Commission on this matter and included in the proposed terms of reference that the Commissioners should have regard to the United Nations' declaration on the rights of children and the sanctity and preservation of human life. 
Subsequent to this, Cabinet considered the question of establishing a Royal Commission for this purpose and the terms of reference of the Royal Commission are as decided by the Cabinet and drafted by the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. They are based upon those terms contained in the motion passed in the House of Representatives to which  Senator Baume  refers. 
The question that  Senator Geenwood  is asking me is: What is the day to day operation? I do not know. 
-I know that  Senator Greenwood  asked me a question. 
-When we get hate, vitriol and ridiculous statements in a debate I do not know what one can do.  Senator Greenwood  asked me how the facility works day by day. I do not know. I do not sit up there day by day operating it. I have given a broad outline of the position. I take it that the Department of Defence, which runs this facility, ensures that the spirit of this agreement is being carried out. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is: 
and (2) A formal lease document has not yet been signed, but agreement has been reached with the lessor company, Rathdowne Properties Pty Ltd, to enter into a lease of the building as from 1 December 1974 at a rental rate of $38.63 per square metre per annum, for the purpose of providing office accommodation for the Postmaster-General's Department. That Department is progressively occupying the building as the provision of necessary facilities permits. Action to acquire the lease is taken under the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
The Special Minister qf State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information: 
On 23 April,  Senator Carrick  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to the Commonwealth Government's extremely narrow and restricted guidelines for the admission of refugees from South Vietnam. Is the Minister aware that many South Vietnamese in Australia hold official letters from the Commonwealth Government approving the admission of relatives? Is he aware that the guidelines will prevent those admissions? Does the Government now repudiate its previous decisions on these matters? If so, why? Is the Minister further aware that the guidelines will divide immediate families? Is it not a fact that children over 2 1 years of age will be denied reunion with their parents in Australia? Since the division of families by wilful act of the Commonwealth Government will not only cause terrible anguish to all concerned but could threaten the very lives of those forced to remain in South Vietnam, will the Government immediately review its guideline policies? Finally, how does the Government reconcile its inhumane guidelines with its claim, as announced by the Minister himself this morning, that it is doing everything possible to save lives in Vietnam? 
The answer to the honourable Senator's question is as follows: 
The attention of the honourable  Senator is  drawn to the public statements made since he asked his question on 23 April, by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Morrison,  which statements have dealt comprehensively with the matters raised by the honourable  Senator. 
Peace Negotiations in Vietnam and the Removal of President Thieu 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Details of Australian assistance for the victims of natural disasters, apart from non-emergency food aid, are given in the following schedule. Gifts have also been given for assistance to victims of man-made disasters in Cyprus and Laos, and for the resettlement and rehabilitation of refugees between Pakistan and Bangladesh. The honourable member will also be aware of the amounts channelled through the UNHCR, UNICEF and the International Red Cross for those affected by warfare in Indo-China, which have totalled $3,877 million since December 1972. RAAF aircraft have been providing transport for refugees and supplies in IndoChina. 
-The latest information I have on this matter is that a shipment of 7000 tonnes of wheat arrived in Dakar, Senegal, in March for distribution in 3 of the Sahelian zone countries affected by drought. Senegal received 1000 tonnes, Mali received 2000 tonnes and Mauritania received 4000 tonnes in accordance with the recommendations by the Food and Agriculture Organisation Office for Sahelian Relief Operations, known as OSRO. The distribution of the wheat and its use will be supervised by United Nations development program representatives resident in those countries. The Australian Government is considering a further cash contribution to OSRO for the purchase of high protein foodstuffs. Longer term rehabilitation projects are also being considered. The Somalia Government has declared a state of emergency because of the current drought in Somalia and appeals for urgent provision of food, cash donations and other supplies have been made by the United Nations Disaster Relief Organisation. 
A gift of 2 tonnes of clarified butter, known as ghee, will be shipped within the next week and 4000 tonnes of wheat will be shipped in June and July. In Ethiopia the purchase of 6000 tonnes of excess local maize is now complete. This will be used for free distribution to food deficit areas by the Ethiopian Famine Relief Commission and part will be used to establish food security stocks, as recommended by the FAO. A further 40 tonnes of full cream milk powder will be shipped in the next few weeks. In 1974, 4000 tonnes of Australian wheat were shipped to Ethiopia after 12 tonnes of protein enriched milk biscuits had been air freighted to Ethiopia in 1973. The drought also affected Tanzania and the Sudan. The Sudan has since suffered crop losses because of flooding in the south. Ten thousand tonnes of wheat for Tanzania and 5000 tonnes of wheat for the Sudan will be shipped in May and June. 
I have just glanced at the article headed 'A Flotilla of Shame', which is written by Denis Warner. He puts a very positive and definite point of view which, as always, is a one-eyed point of view. 
He has taken a very definite line and has expressed anti-Government views for a long time. I think one ought to regard this article as a view through fairly biased eyes. 
It is absolutely true that he is biased. There is no shadow of doubt about that. With regard to the ships that were in Singapore harbour, they sailed quite some time ago and I would think that if they were going to reach Australia's shores they would have been here by now. As I understand it, the usual surveillances did not indicate that they were coming to Australia but were moving across to Subic Bay and Guam. I do not think there is very much sense in doing anything about them arriving if we have heard no suggestion that they will arrive. If they did arrive on our shores we would examine the situation. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table a statement concerning my recent visit to India to attend the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific Meeting and my visit to London for the Commonwealth Ministerial Meeting on Food Production and Rural Development. 
I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of South Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs A. J. Walsh, G. H. Campbell-Kennedy and F. W. Summers, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on the 15th day of April 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted. 
The Government, having considered the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of South Australia, as tabled in this House on 15 April 1975 pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals. In the following remarks, I shall be placing in their proper context not only the redistribution proposals for South Australia, but also those relating to the other States concerned, since the Government intends also to move very shortly for approval of the proposals relating to Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales, which have also been tabled in this chamber. 
Prior to the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act last year, Distribution Commissioners were permitted to draw divisional boundaries that could result in enrolments for divisions being up to 20 per cent above or below the quota applying to the State. Since the 1968 redistribution, which observed the previous guidelines, the consequent inequalities in enrolments have progressively worsened as a result of trends in population growth within each of the four most heavily populated States. We now have a clearly unjust and indefensible situation in each of these States, with some electorates having current enrolments which are approximately double those of other electorates. For example, as at 25 April 1975, enrolments for divisions in New South Wales varied from 83 941 in Mitchell to 46 975 in Darling; in Victoria, from 87 522, Diamond Valley, to 49 200, Wimmera; in Queensland from 94 024, Mcpherson to 46 456, Maranoa; in South Australia, from 83 388, Bonython to 49 561, Wakefield. In no less than 52 of the 109 electorates in these States the enrolments vary from the quota by over 10 per cent- a situation which is clearly unjust and which must be righted as soon as possible. 
The Government does not agree with all proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, but it believes the Commissioners to be men of competence and integrity who have performed their difficult duties with complete impartiality. In the Government's view, there is no reason why the Liberal Party should not support a speedy adjustment of the inequitable situation which I have just outlined, since the existing boundaries discriminate against the party in most States. This point is worth stressing, given the frequent assertions which have been made by Country Party spokesmen to the effect that the percentage of seats won by the Government and Opposition in recent elections has accurately reflected the number of votes polled. Such assertions obscure the degree to which present disparities as between divisional enrolments within each State have assisted the Country Party. 
For example, at the 1972 House of Representatives elections the Country Party polled 9.44 per cent of the votes, yet was able to win 16 per cent of the seats. Again, to express the anomaly in another way, at the 1974 House of Representatives elections the average enrolment of the 66 electorates won by the Australian Labor Party was 63 458, while for the 40 electorates won by the Liberal Party the average enrolment was 64 045. Yet for the 21 electorates won by the Country Party the average enrolment was only 54 708. It is therefore understandable that the Country Party should regard this situation as highly satisfactory, but there is no reason for any Government committed to the elimination of electoral inequalities and anomalies to share this satisfaction with the ' status quo '. 
While taking this opportunity to reiterate the Government's determination to uphold the principle of one vote one value, I also remind honourable members that under the Act as amended it remains possible for the Distribution Commissioners to fix the boundaries for divisions in a way which would result in enrolments varying from the State quota by up to 10 per cent, that is to say, an overall variation of up to 20 per cent. The degree to which the Distribution Commissioners choose to exercise this discretionary power is left entirely to their independent judgment. The Government believes that , in the case of the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia- and, indeed, for the other States also- that judgment was exercised with the utmost competence. 
Let me now indicate some major features of the South Australian redistribution proposals in particular, in order to demonstrate that these proposals are unquestionably fair and reasonable. Under the proposals presented by the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia, all 12 existing divisions have been retained in name, although boundary alterations are proposed in every case. It is proposed that 2 of the existing divisions, Adelaide and Hindmarsh, should retain all their existing electors but should also take in additional electors from other divisions. Each of the other 10 proposed divisions takes in a substantial majority of the electors currently enrolled in those divisions. 
The proposals make a significant reduction to the overall range of percentage variations from the quota. Thus taking enrolments as at December 1974, on which the proposals were based, percentage variations from the quota for existing divisions range from 21.88 per cent below quota for the Wakefield division to 29.65 per cent above quota for Bonython division. Furthermore, 2 other existing divisions, Angas and Kingston, also currently vary from the quota by over 10 percent. 
Under the proposals now before the House, the size of variations from the quota would be substantially reduced. The maximum enrolment proposed is 68 372, or 8.74 per cent above quota, for the division of Adelaide, while the minimum proposed enrolment is 57 015, or 9.32 per cent below quota, for the division of Kingston. Apart from the divisions of Adelaide and Kingston, proposed variations from the quota for the remaining 10 divisions range from 6.66 per cent above for the division of Hawker to 9.02 per cent below for the division of Bonython. The need for a redistribution is exemplified by the projected enrolments as at May 1977, the approximate date of the next Federal election, which show that compared with the enrolments as at 25 April 1974 the following changes will take place: Bonython, 83 388, will increase to 90 000; Kingston, 72 830, will increase to 78 000; and Sturt, 69 0 1 1 , will increase to 72 000. 
To sum up, the Government is quite satisfied that the proposed boundaries for South Australia demonstrably promote the objective of electoral equality to a far greater degree than do the existing boundaries in that State. I move: 
That the Senate approves of the report of the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia dated 7 April 1975. 
I ask for the leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions as at 25 April 1975 in South Australia as provided by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
On behalf of  Senator Wriedt  who moved this notice of motion as well as the previous one on my behalf while I was away, I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Tasmania into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs J. R. Lennard, C. C. A. Butler and P. W. Fletcher, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on the 17th day of April 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted. 
The Government, having considered the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Tasmania, as tabled in this chamber on 1 7 April 1975, pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners 'proposals. As at December 1974, enrolments for divisions in Tasmania varied from 45 846 in the Division of Bass- 6.8 1 per cent below quota- to 52 206 in the Division of Braddon 6. 1 1 per cent above quota. The quota was ascertained to be 49 1 98. These variations have been reduced in the Distribution Commissioners' proposals, with the maximum proposed enrolment being 5 1 394-4.46 per cent above quota- for the Division of Braddon and the minimum 46 148-6.20 per cent below quota- for the Division of Wilmot. 
Although the reduction in the degree of variation from the quota is not large, it is worth noting that the Distribution Commissioners have nevertheless proposed variations less sizable than those proposed for South Australia and Queensland, as one might expect, when dealing with a State like Tasmania, where population movements do not fluctuate so dramatically as in other States. It is also worth remarking that the Distribution Commissioners' comments contained in paragraphs 9 to 12 on page 7 of their report indicate that they have approached their task with commendable care and objectivity. Twenty-one suggestions, comments and objections relating to the proposed redistribution were lodged with the Commissioners all of which received full consideration. In this regard paragraph 10 states: 
Several objections were received to the proposed amendment to boundaries between Denison and Franklin. Following careful analysis of the situation, your Distribution Commissioners could find no reason to amend their original proposals in this area, which made use of natural boundaries such as rivers and streams, and are in full accord with all the criteria outlined in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
I move that the Senate approve the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Tasmania, dated 15 April 1975. 1 ask leave of the Senate to incorporate the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions as at 24 April 1975 in Tasmania as provided by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
SCHEDULE 
DIVISIONAL ENROLMENTS FOR TASMANIA AS AT 25 APRIL 1975 

<graphic href="064232197505221_26_2.jpg"></graphic>

in reply-  Mr President,  1 am glad to hear that  Senator Greenwood  will support the Bill, because he certainly spoke against it all through his speech. All that happened was that we inherited from the previous Government an agreement to operate a facility at North West Cape at Exmouth Gulf. What we did was to negotiate and to amend that agreement with our friends. Whatever  Senator Greenwood  says about what should have been done or about somebody saying this, that or the other thing, the fact is that with all agreements you have to reach an agreement, you have to negotiate with friends, and that is what we have done. I know that  Senator Greenwood  gets very irate about these things. He flies right off the handle. He goes on with his usual vitriol and abuse about what is, after all, a fairly simple Bill. 
What we seek to do under this Bill is to amend an agreement which was entered into by the previous Government. We inherited this situation. If we had negotiated the agreement in the first place it certainly would not have been the type of agreement which it is. The agreement embraces the relationship which existed between Australia and America at that time, which was that Australia was a satellite of the Americans, that it never queried anything that they did and that it never offered them any advice even in the field in which we have some expertise in South East Asia. That relationship has been altered, and that fact has been appreciated by the Americans and they have made no secret about it. All this Bill seeks to do is to make 3 simple amendments to the agreement. I think  Senator Sim  said, in effect that the agreement did not do any good and it did not do any harm. I believe that it does some good. At least it shows now that we are partners with the Americans, and that we can negotiate with them and come down with something which is acceptable. 
-I know that  Senator Greenwood  wants it both ways. He wants to kowtow to the Americans and he wants to do what he did when he was a Minister in the previous Government, that is, to be completely subservient. I know that  Senator Greenwood  does not like Australia to have a foreign policy which is in some way independent. It is bad luck, but that is what he has got. Even with  Senator 
Greenwood's dead hand on any future government, that is what he will have. There is a new relationship between Australia and America, and it is embodied in this Bill. In spite of the ravings of  Senator Greenwood,  which is not unusual, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. Therefore, I do not think that I have to go into the history of this matter or anything else. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I thought that  Senator Greenwood  had studied the Bill; evidently he has not done so. The Bill is a very simple one. It provides for 3 amendments to the 1963 agreement. An amendment to Article 1 of the agreement provides that the station at North West Cape shall be operated jointly, while an amendment to Article 2 limits United States Navy exclusive occupation to a national room and provides for a similar Australian national room. The land use arrangement under the 1963 agreement is amended to reflect the changed conditions of use and occupancy. An amendment to Article 14 of the agreement provides that the Australian Government will meet only the costs directly associated with the location of the Royal Australian Navy at the station, such as salaries, allowances and accommodation. I thought that  Senator Greenwood  had studied the Bill. The fact is that the station is now being jointly operated by the 2 countries which was not the case under the previous agreement. If  Senator Greenwood  does not like this, why does he not oppose the Bill? If he does not like the amendments or if he does not think that they go far enough, let him be honest about it.  Senator Greenwood  spoke against the Bill yet he will vote for it. 
On 23 April,  Senator Sim  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Is it a fact that the North Vietnamese Government has continually insisted that negotiations for peace in Vietnam would be undertaken as soon as President Thieu had been removed? Has President Thieu now resigned? Is it also a fact that the North Vietnamese Government now demands that further conditions be met before negotiations commence? Does this not indicate further the insincerity and the dishonesty of the North Vietnamese Government in obtaining a political settlement rather than a military settlement? 
The answer to the honourable Senator's question is as follows: 
The Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam has never maintained that the removal of President Thieu would be the only pre-condition for new peace negotiations. In a statement of 8 October 1974, reiterated on 12 March this year, it called for a 'definite and complete end to its (U.S.) military involvement and interference' in South Vietnam and the overthrow of 'Nguyen Van Thieu and his like' to be replaced by 'a new administration standing for peace, national concord, and scrupulous implementation of the Paris Agreement' before talks could begin. 
The PRG thus did not add further conditions in stating that the resignation of President Thieu was not fulfilment of the conditions they had presented. 
Since the premise is not correct any conclusion drawn from it has no validity. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, the computer used by the Australian Electoral Office produced details of the aggregate votes recorded for all candidates and political parties in respect of each State and Australia as a whole in relation to the 1974 House of Representatives elections. The Australian Electoral Office is undertaking a statistical study of the computer data in relation to these elections but it is not yet in a position to publish details of this study. 
Roads in Indonesian Timor 
I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of New South Wales into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs R. F. Mallon, L. N. Fletcher and J. B. Enfield, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on 14 May 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Gilmore be substituted for Eastwood, the name of Evatt be substituted for Toongabbie and that the name of Evans be substituted for Concord. 
I have before me the statement appropriate to the proposed redistribution in New South Wales, along with the list of divisions and their numbers. I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Victoria into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs L. J. Abbott, J. E. Mitchell and D. W. Rawson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into the Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on 14 May 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Menzies be substituted for Doncaster and Templestowe. 
I have a statement which is basically the same as that which was delivered in the House of Representatives, except it has been truncatednothing extra has been put into it- plus a long list of divisions and their enrolments. I ask for leave to incorporate the document in Hansard. 
On 27 February 1975,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate the following question without notice: 
It is a continuation of a question I asked yesterday about the ominous and orchestrated rumours of Indonesian menaces against Portuguese Timor. Will he inform the Senate of the accuracy or otherwise of further rumours of lateral road building by the Indonesians, parallel to the boundary of the two parts of the island? Is the Government's claim of no danger in the Australasian area still valid? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
It is true that the Indonesian Government is preparing to construct roads in the Timor border area. The proposed project is part of the Indonesian Government's current 'highway betterment' program. 
The project has been incorporated into the current Indonesian Five Year plan ( 1 974-75-1 978-79). 
Military Deployments in Korea 
The answers to the honourable senator's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The Government has received such a request from the so-called Australia-Rhodesia Association. 
The Government has no objection in principle to aiding victims of terrorist attacks and it does not condone the use of terrorist methods in efforts to solve international problems. Nevertheless, it understands the frustration felt by the liberation movement in Southern Rhodesia in the face of the intransigence shown and the repression carried out by the illegal Smith regime. This has inevitably led to some acts of violence by both sides, against both Africans and Europeans. In the Government's view, the ultimate responsibility for all such acts resides with the illegal Smith regime. 
No. 
The Government would consider any proposal for such a contribution if made by an internationally reputable body such as the United Nations or its subsidiary organisations or specialised agencies. 
The 1974-5 Budget included an amount of $150,000 for humanitarian assistance to national liberation movements in Africa. This assistance is being provided through a United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF) project in Zambia involving the provision of educational, medical and welfare assistance for women and children under the care of a number of national liberation movements who have temporarily settled in Zambia. 
Mercury Level in Fish  (Question No. 503) 
-I do not know what conversations  Mr Price  had with  Mr Tran  Van Lam. I can answer the other allegations made by  Senator Sim  only by saying that we have approved the application of  Mr Tran  Van Lam to settle in Australia. 
There is general liaison between the aid branch and many overseas agencies which render assistance in all kinds of ways, not necessarily at the time on Guam. As to the specific details, I will have to find out and let the honourable senator know. 
As I understand the question, it concerns the general rules that are laid down. 
-Provision for the entry of certain relations has been made. Is the honourable senator suggesting that it be extended? 
-I will look at the matter. 
-I am not too sure of the 2 people to whom  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is referring. 
-There are at the moment- I think they are still in Australia- 2 students who are here - 
-That is a help. I take it that  Sir Magnus  is not referring to the 2 students in Australia but to  Mr el  Surani about whom I answered a question from  Senator Wright  on Wednesday, 14 May. The note I have- I gave this answer to  Senator Wright  that dayindicates I am not aware that somebody is coming with  Mr el  Surani. Maybe somebody is.  Mr el  Surani is scheduled to arrive in early June. He is visiting India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore before coming here. Both his visit and the visit by the 2 students are of a private nature and do not involve Australian Government sponsorship. The Government has no indication whether the Palestine Liberation Organisation or other organisations will request visas for further visits to Australia. 1 understand that the answer to the other point about whether  Mr el  Surani is travelling on a diplomatic passport is no. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the following 3 reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: 
Stress relieved strand wire cable (by-law), dated 10 January 1975. 
Polyester yarn for use in the manufacture of automotive seat belt webbing (by-law), dated 19 November 1974. 
Tomatoes; tomato paste, etc. (by-law), dated 13 November 1974. 
On behalf of  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Queensland into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs. I. F. Weise, A. B. Yeates and C. A. Hughes, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the Senate on the 17th day of April 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Kennedy be substituted for Flynn and the name  of Forde  be substituted for Glasgow. 
I have a statement on the Queensland distribution, which has been dealt with in another place, and at the end of the statement there is an appendage containing a lot of figures. I ask for leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The statement read as follows)- 
The Government, having considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Queensland, as tabled in this chamber on 17 
April 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for that State. 
In order to place the proposals in context, let me refer briefly to the situation which has developed in Queensland since the 1968 redistribution. The rate of growth has accelerated sharply. In the 13 years between the 1955 and the 1968 redistributions, the quota rose by nearly 23 per cent. Three electorates grew by more than 20 000 and a further two by more than 10 000. In the 6 years between the 1968 and 1975 redistributions the quota rose by nearly 28 per cent. Five electorates grew by more than 20 000 and a further five by more than 10 000. Thus, there has been much more growth in half the time. As may be seen by reference to the table presented by the Distribution Commissioners at page 2 of volume 1 of their report, enrolment growth rates have varied drastically from division to division over the past 6 years. For instance, while enrolment in the Division of McPherson increased from 47 371, as at the 1968 redistribution, to 93 108 as at December 1974, enrolment in the Division of Maranoa increased by only 1 526, from 44 788 to 46 3 14; in the Division of Brisbane by only 1 878, from 58 546 to 60 424; and in the Division of Griffith actually decreased by 70, from 58 868 to 58 798. 
The anomalous situation which had developed under the existing electoral boundaries in Queensland may also be illustrated by reference to the current substantial variations from the quota. Thus, as at 28 March 1975 enrolments in 9 of the 18 existing divisions varied from the quota by more than 10 per cent, including four which varied by over 20 per cent. Enrolments ranged from 94 437 or 45.28 per cent above quota for the Division of McPherson to 46 497 or 28.47 per cent below quota for the Division of Maranoa. The identity of the 1 8 divisions drawn in 1948 remained unchanged for over a quarter of a century, a period when new divisions were created in all other States but Tasmania. The extent of growth and its uneven spread compels change. As a consequence of postponed major revisions, it is now necessary to make substantial alterations. 
The Distribution Commissioners' proposals represent a substantial improvement on the present situation and a response to the previous developments. The proposed enrolments, based on December 1974 enrolments, range from 58 537 or 9.76 per cent below quota for the new 
Division of Glasgow to 68 515 or 5.63 per cent above quota for the Division of Brisbane. It is proposed to extend the area of the metropolitan divisions slightly to the north as far as Caboolture and to the south as far as Beenleigh, which will then correspond with the census definition of the metropolitan area and with the reality of urban growth in recent years. The metropolitan area will now contain 9 quotas and therefore must have 9 divisions. 
Given the low existing enrolment, it was logical to alter drastically the Division of Maranoa. It combines with the western part of Kennedy. Again, in order to adjust boundaries within the Brisbane metropolitan area adequately and to define the two new proposed metropolitan divisions, the Commissioners found it necessary to abolish one of the existing metropolitan divisions. The Division of Griffith is proposed to be abolished, being the only metropolitan division with a negative enrolment growth rate during the 1 968- 1 974 period. 
A careful examination of the character of the proposed Division of Flynn, which the Government intends should be renamed Kennedy, will show that it is basically the old Maranoa plus some modest border extensions and the city of Mount Isa. Kennedy would still be much smaller than the Division of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. As noted in paragraph 12, page 3, of the Distribution Commissioners' report, particular consideration was given to the proposed Division of Flynn, and to the problem of striking a balance among the various criteria laid down by section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. As a result, following consideration of objections to the preliminary proposals, a substantial modification to boundaries of the proposed Division of Flynn was effected, involving compensatory adjustments to the proposed Division of Dawson. 
Those proposed Divisions for which enrolments have been fixed at below quota are all either non-metropolitan- Capricornia, Fisher, Flynn, Herbert or incorporate rapidly expanding outer metropolitan components- Fadden, Glasgow, McPherson, Oxley and Petrie. In those cases where the proposed enrolment for a nonmetropolitan division has been fixed above the quota- Darling Downs, Dawson, Leichhardt, Wide Bay- either the proposed variation from the quota is extremely small, for example, under one percent for both Dawson and Leichhardt or else it can be anticipated that population growth rate will be such as to reduce the degree of variation from the quota over the next couple of years. 
It is interesting to note the projected enrolments of the three existing divisions with the highest enrolments as at May 1977, based on the assumption that the House of Representatives will run its full term. The enrolment of the existing Division of Bowman, which was 79 629 at 25 April 1975, is expected to increase to 87 000 by May 1977. The existing Division of McPherson is expected to move from 94 024 to 104 000 during the same period, and the existing Division of Petrie would increase from 77 459 to 84 000. 
It is appropriate that the name 'Kennedy' be substituted for 'Flynn' and 'Forde' for 'Glasgow'. The Right Honourable Frank Forde was a former Prime Minister of Australia. Like the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden, after whom a Division has also been named, he served the people of Queensland with great distinction in State and Federal Parliaments for a lifetime. To sum up, the proposals by no means favour the Australian Labor Party and, as a matter of fact, weaken certain divisions held by Government members. The Government considers, however, that the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for Queensland are the result of a commendably painstaking and impartial study of the problems involved in the fixing of electoral boundaries for the most decentralised State in Australia. I urge the Senate to approve the motion for the redistribution of the State of Queensland into electoral divisions. I have already sought the leave of the Senate to incorporate the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions in Queensland as at 25 April 1975, as provided by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. They are as follows: 

<graphic href="064232197505276_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

in reply- I shall be very brief in my remarks.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in another role a few minutes ago you made some criticism of the proposal for the division of Flynn, which we suggest should be renamed Kennedy. I wish to point out for the consideration of the Senate that since 1948 Queensland has had three sprawling outback divisions. It still has three under the proposalsLeichhardt, Dawson and Flynn. With regard to the size of the proposed division of Flynn it might be noted that almost half the area of the proposed division is accounted for by 2 subdivisions that contain between them fewer than 2000 electors. An examination of the character of the proposed division of Flynn will show that it is basically the present division of Maranoa plus some modest border extensions of the city of Mount Isa. The proposed division of Flynn is much smaller than the division of Kalgoorlie, which is in Western Australia of course, and which contains a number of fairly significant population centres apart from Kalgoorlie. For example, it contains Geraldton, Port Hedland, Derby and the group of places that have grown up with reasonable size populations in the Pilbara area. 
Question put: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State  of Queensland  into the electoral divisions as proposed. 
in reply- I shall reply very briefly because after the bitterness of  Senator Carrick  I think that it has gone beyond the point of trying to put any sense into the debate. Since the 1968 redistribution on the previous guidelines, the inequalities in enrolments have progressively worsened as a result of trends in population growth. If one would like to sit down and look at this one would see that that is pretty obvious. We have a clearly unjust and indefensible situation in each of the States, with some electorates having current enrolments which are approximately double the enrolments in other electorates. The situation today is that the maximum variations from the quota for the existing divisions in New South Wales, as at the same date, December 1974, range from minus 25.72 per cent to plus 31.83 per cent. Although the divisions in New South Wales in the proposal that is before us tonight are allowed a variation of 10 per cent above or 10 per cent below the quota, the fact is that the variation ranges from minus 4.39 per cent- as against 25.72 per cent under the situation in which  Senator Carrick  says that everything is holy- to plus 4.56 per cent. That is the situation that we are trying to correct. We have a variation from minus 25.72 per cent to plus 31.83 per cent under the present boundaries and we propose boundaries with a variation from minus 4.39 per cent to plus 4.56 per cent.  Senator Carrick  defends the present position and says that this is the sort of thing that ought to happen. 
We have said that we of the Australian Labor Party do not altogether like what these independent people have brought about. But we set up this independent body- it is the most skilled body that we could get- and it has brought down a redistribution which does not please anybody in totality. If we thought about this matter we would like to alter a boundary here and there, and so would the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia. The point is that we have set up this independent body and we are prepared to accept its recommendations.  Senator Bunton  said that we should consider the question of productivity. I suppose that if we were to do that the people in the Pilbara area would have 10 votes to every one else 's one vote because there is more productivity there than in any other place in Australia. The fact is that that is just not on. The fact that this would contravene the Commonwealth Electoral Act does not seem to worry  Senator Bunton.  This is a nice philosophical sort of an attitude to adopt. 
When I was younger I used to hear the argument that people of greater intelligence and people with more money should have greater weight placed on their votes than was placed on the votes of ordinary mortals like myself who were not born into the world with these sorts of things. The fact is that we are looking at a gerrymander, and what we have done is to set up an independent body to finally kill this gerrymander. All the bitterness and hatred that  Senator Carrick  can put into these things does not alter the situation. As I listened to  Senator Carrick  tonight I was thinking of a television interview which I saw a year or two ago when  Sir Gordon  Chalk- I think it may have been before he got that appellation- was interviewed on television concerning a gerrymander in Queensland which surely nobody would deny obtains. The interviewer asked  Sir Gordon  Chalk: 'Do you believe that people in the country should get four, five or six votes to everyone else's one?' I do not remember the exact figures now.  Sir Gordon  Chalk said: 'Yes, of course'. The interviewer asked: 'Why?'  Sir Gordon  Chalk said: 'Anything is justified to keep a Labor Government out of office'. 

 - Senator Baume says 'Is that right?' He agrees that that is the sort of thing you should do. This is the great justice! 
Even  Senator Missen,  who is pretty naive and who has not been here very long, knows that that is not a point of order. If  Senator Baume  did not say that, I certainly withdraw my remark. If  Senator Baume  says that that is what I said- I do not accept  Senator Missen's  word- most certainly I will withdraw the remark. It is not important, anyway. All I am saying is that  Sir Gordon  Chalk said on television that any gerrymander was justified provided it served to keep a Labor government out of office. I thought that  Senator Baume  agreed with that proposition. It is not a matter on which to take a point of order. If  Senator Baume  claims that I misrepresented him, I certainly withdraw what I said. I said that  Senator Carrick  based his whole argument on the proposition that as long as Labor can be kept out of office that is all right. 
I was pointing out to the Senate the premise on which  Senator Carrick  based his whole argument tonight. Somebody said: 'Whatever is good for General Motors is good for America'.  Senator Carrick  says: 'Whatever is good for the Liberal Party is good for Australia'. That is a quite unreasonable proposition. What we have done has been to set up an independent body to bring down what in its view is as near as one can get to a fair electoral distribution in Australia. We have said in support of the various proposals for electoral redistribution that what is proposed is not completely what we would like but we accept it because it is what we should have in Australia.  Senator Carrick  does not accept that point of view but believes that whatever can be done to get a gerrymander for the Liberal Party is good. We reject that. That is all I have to say,  Mr President. 
Question put: 
That the Senate agrees with the redistribution of the State of New South Wales into electoral divisions as proposed. 
On 17 April  Senator Carrick  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question without notice: 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is there mounting evidence of aggressive acts by North Korean forces in breach of the peace agreement and also of growing military build up along the demilitarised zone by North Korea? 
Is the Minister aware of incidents on 26 February and 24 March of this year in which North Korean military aircraft in considerable numbers penetrated significantly into South Korean air space? 
Have the North Koreans recently constructed a number of advance tactical airstrips along the truce line? 
Is there evidence of the massing of military equipment on the northern bank of the 1 mi in River? 
Have a number of invasion tunnels also been dug under the demilitarised zone? Taken in association with the reported heightening of communist military activities in northern Malaysia and the recent indications that the Philippines Government may contemplate looking away from America for future defence security, will the Minister agree that there are indications of growing instability in the Asian region of which we are part? 
I undertook to provide supplementary information for the honourable senator. I have received the information, which is as follows: 
The Australian Embassy in Seoul has reported that there were minor incidents off the west coast of Korea on 26 February and 24 March 1 975. 
On 26 February, it was reported that a Republic of Korea (ROK) destroyer collided with and sank a Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) fishing vessel while pursuing DPRK patrol vessels that had crossed the so-called Northern Patrol Limit Line. This line, which was fixed unilaterally by the ROK and is not recognised by the DPRK, though it has generally respected it, extends westward from the Demilitarised Zone (DMZ) to an undetermined point in the Western (Yellow) Sea. Following this incident, fighter aircraft of both sides were deployed in the area. At no time were they in close contact. 
On 24 March two DPRK aircraft were reported to have overflown ROK-held islands in the Western Sea. Two DPRK aircraft are also reported to have flown 60 miles south of the Northern Patrol Limit Line, though they did not enter ROK airspace. ROK aircraft were sent to the area but no contact was made. 
The Embassy has also forwarded ROK Government reports of some airfield construction in the southern part of the DPRK and of the discovery of tunnels leading southward under the DMZ. 
In the atmosphere of rivalry and mutual suspicion that prevails on the Korean peninsula it is often difficult to know what weight to allow the charges and countercharges of aggressive preparations made by both sides. Our information on what happens or does not happen in such situations is necessarily limited. However, I am advised that there does not appear to have been any substantial recent change in the deployment of DPRK or ROK forces, which in so far as we can know, appear to remain essentially defensive. 
I have seen the reports. That is all I have seen. The action I propose to take is to check on the reports. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report on the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the period 1 July 1 973 to 3 1 December 1 974. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the period 1 January to 3 1 December 1 974. 
I am informed that the situation at the moment is that the subsidy is being paid to the centre. There already is a pilot plan under which the payment is being made to the parent so that we have the situation that  Senator Rae  wants. It is being tried out in a place called Tasmania. 
I am informed that there is support for such children under other Acts, for instance the Health Act, whereby nurses go into the homes. 
My advice is that it is being established under the same powers as applied to the Child Care Act which was passed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. There is no reference in that Bill, a copy of which I have before me, to heads of power. If that was a constitutional Bill, then ours certainly is. No such question was ever raised in the days when that Bill was being discussed. We have followed completely the Opposition's very good leadership on this matter. 
The whole aim is to integrate as much as we can and to extend as far as we can. Some children are not getting the facilities they ought to be getting. We want to fill that gap. It is as simple as that. 
As I understand the situation, the right to make welfare payments, which never has been under challenge by the Opposition or anybody else in Australia, would seem to be the one we are moving under in this respect. If the Opposition is thinking of challenging this Bill in the High Court it can do so but to be consistent it should have done so in respect of its own Act in 1 972. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Interpretation). 
We see inservice training as a very important part of the whole set-up. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The honourable senator is probably referring to a speech on immigration by  Mr Alex  Lyon, Minister of State of the Home Office, on 5 April 1975. 1 have arranged for a copy of an extract from  Mr Lyon's  speech to be forwarded to the honourable senator. From this speech he will note there is no specific mention of Australians or New Zealanders. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 510) 
-I have been asked to give a range of opinions about whether or not the White Russians who came here about 20 years ago have been good citizens. As far as I know they have been good citizens. The honourable senator has asked for an opinion of whether they are in fear because they have allegedly received letters offering them passports. However, I do not know whether they are in fear. 
What matter? That they are frightened, that they are good citizens, or what? 
I do not know what the question is. If  Senator Greenwood  will see me and give me a definite and direct question I shall assist him all I can. 
A house was purchased in 1973 in an area suitable for the purpose of a cultural centre. At the time of the purchase the layout of the house was known to be unsuited to the purpose and plans were put in hand for extensive remodelling to be carried out while retaining the external facade. The local architects have experienced considerable difficulty in the design and translation of the user requirements into a feasible plan. They also have had some difficulties with mechanical and electrical aspects of the reconstruction. Final working drawings for the project were received in Canberra on 9 May. Appropriate provision has been made in the 1975-76 works proposals. A construction period of about 12 months is expected, following approval. 
The only communication that I remember we received with regard to the Paris Accords was received before the fall of Saigon. The only communication we have received since then has been to discuss the reopening of the Embassy in Saigon. The honourable senator asked for my opinion on several other matters on which I am afraid I cannot answer. 
-I ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the establishment of the Purchasing Commission. The principal functions of the Commission will be to advise the Special Minister of State on the policies, procedures and practices which should be followed in regard to procurement and disposals, and to operate a central procurement and disposals organisation to meet the needs of a wide range of departments and authorities. The setting up of such a body was recommended in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy which was tabled in Parliament last month. I take this opportunity to express the Government's thanks to  Sir Walter  Scott and to the members of his Committee for their very valuable report. The provisions of this Bill closely follow the recommendations of that Committee. The Committee's analysis of deficiencies in the present procurement arrangements is contained in chapter 8 of its report, while its specific recommendations are set out and explained in subsequent chapters. The shortcomings listed by the Committee included the inflexible and fragmented nature of the present arrangements, the absence of regular reviews of principles and procedures, the need for research and training and the absence of proper consultation with industry. Accordingly the Committee has made a series of recommendations designed to upgrade the purchasing and procurement function and to set up a central body to achieve the necessary coordination. 
One of the first tasks of the new Commission will be to undertake a detailed and comprehensive review of the Government's procurement activities based upon the 39 recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. At the same time, the Commission will be taking over, progressively, purchasing activities at present distributed across a wide range. I might mention that the actual purchasing operations will be carried out by a highly decentralised and flexible organisation with offices in all Australian States and at several overseas locations. The Commission will be responsible for all stages of the procurement process in some areas such as in the supply of common-use' items required by a wide range of departments and authorities. These items are now mainly purchased by the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board, the staff of which, together with the purchasing and associated staff of the Department of Manufacturing Industry, who currently undertake defence purchasing, will form the nucleus of the Purchasing Commission. Further, it is expected that some departments and authorities will have need of a full procurement service from the Commission ranging from the specification of goods required through to inspection and acceptance. In other areas- and I refer particularly to departments and authorities requiring specialised equipment in such fields as defence, telecommunications, transport and health- the departments or authorities will continue to be in a position to define their requirements and specifications and to undertake, by arrangement with the Commission, such activities as the inspection and storage of their goods. 
Throughout this Bill care has been taken to safeguard the rights and responsibilities of user departments and authorities. For example, clause 12 provides that the Commission may not make an acquisition for a department or authority without a written request from the body concerned to do so. Furthermore, the Commission will be required to consult with, and have regard to, the views of the user at all stages in the procurement. It will be clear from these provisions that the Government expects the new Commission to provide an efficient and responsive service to its clients as well as to give effect to such important objectives as economy in purchasing and the development of purchasing methods which will result in obtaining the best value for the taxpayers' money. If a dispute arises between the Commission and a user department or authority over the correct award of a tender on grounds of technical suitability of the goods, the user's views are to prevail, although the Commission will have the right, as indicated in clause 13, to formally state its views and publish them in its annual report. I draw the attention of honourable senators also to clause 14 which makes special provision for the procurement of major and technically complex equipment. Under this clause arrangements may be made for the appointment of special project teams, on which both the Commission and the user authority will be represented, to handle such projects. The Scott Committee considered that arrangements along these lines would be helpful in achieving the closest collaboration and harmony as between the Commission and the user authority. 
As recommended by the Scott Committee, the Government has decided that the specialised procurement activities currently being carried out largely for other departments and authorities by the Department of Housing and Construction in relation to works and associated services, by the Department of Services and Property for land and buildings, and by the Department of the Media for printing, publishing and advertising services, should continue to be carried out by those Departments. At some later stage, after the Commission has been in operation for some time, the position can be reviewed. Provision has also been made in clause 1 1 to exempt the procurement of goods for subsequent resale of the same goods in the course of a trading activity. This will safeguard the position of bodies such as the Australian Wool Corporation and the proposed Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. Clause 10 of the Bill provides the mechanism for the Commission's progressive assumption of its operational responsibilities. The Commission will obviously not be in a position, at the outset, to take over some of the purchasing and disposals activities envisaged for the longer term and clause 10 empowers the Minister to make any necessary exceptions. The clause also gives the Commission some flexibility in permitting departments or authorities to carry out activities which would otherwise have to be handled by the Commission. 
The Commission's powers are set out in clause 6. Apart from the general power to undertake the functions specified in clause 5, the Commission is given power to enter into agreements in its own name and to undertake procurement on its own behalf. It is proposed that the Commission should also have power to collect relevant statistical and other information, to undertake or arrange research into aspects of procurement and, in consultation with the Public Service Board and educational institutions, to promote the training of government officers in procurement matters. Clause 7 provides that the Commission is to keep itself informed of the procurement activities of departments and authorities and is to draw attention to any cases where the Government's policies and procedures are not being carried out. 
Under clause 8, the Commission will be required to keep the business community generally informed of its procedures and methods. The Commission will consult with business groups on the need for changes in Government procurement administration and will, as far as possible, provide information on forward planning of procurement. The Advisory Committee on Procurement provided for in clause 36 will be an important forum for discussion between the Commission and industry representatives. The main purpose of this Committee is to give advice to the 
Government on procurement matters and operations as seen from outside the Commission. The Bill provides that members of Parliament may be appointed to this Committee. The Special Minister of State proposes to invite 2 members of Parliament- one from the Government and one from the Opposition- to serve on this Committee. I would like to draw the particular attention of honourable senators to clause 17 which empowers the Minister to give directions to the Commission. This provision will ensure that the Commission operates at all times in full accordance with the Government's policies. 
Parts III and IV of the Bill contain the usual machinery provisions concerning the constitution and meetings of the Commission and the Commission's staff. It will be noted that, in addition to the  Chairman,  there are to be at least 2 other fulltime Commissioners and that further Commissioners may be appointed on either a fulltime or a part-time basis. The  Chairman  is to have the powers of a Permanent Head and the Commission's staff will be subject to the Public Service Act. Part VI of the Bill provides for appeals to be made to the Ombudsman. The Scott Committee had recommended that a special tribunal be established for this purpose but this recommendation was made before the Government had decided to appoint an Ombudsman for such purposes. 
I have already referred to the Commission's annual report which is provided for in clause 43. This report, along with any other reports requested of the Commission, will be tabled in the Parliament. The annual report not only will provide information concerning the Commission's operations but also will review any other developments of public interest in this field over the year concerned. I am circulating an explanatory memorandum on behalf of the Special Minister of State which provides more detailed information on the clauses in the Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
Motion ( by  Senator Willesee)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
In speaking to the amendment I will not deal with the Bill, as  Senator Cotton  did. He quoted from a work of which we are all aware, dealing mainly with the question why we should have a second chamber. That is an argument that will go on as long as people are in Parliament.  Senator Cotton  pointed out that this is a house of review. Of course, what the learned work from which he quoted or any other work does not say is that the Senate should be a House of obstruction. Let us cut all the verbiage away. The Liberal Party and its collaborators, the National Country Party of Australia- the Country Party as it was once known- have made up their minds to do some more obstruction. What sort of rot is this? The Opposition can have an adjournment of this legislation. Honourable senators opposite are aware that an adjournment does not necessarily mean to the next day of sitting. It means that an arrangement can be made whereby Opposition senators can examine the legislation during the weekend and it can be brought back into this place a week from today. That would be fair enough. 
The arguments put forward by  Senator Cotton  can be put forward on any Bill or anything else that comes before this Senate- it could be the Budget, a short Bill or anything else. Of course this Bill affects the lives of the people. Of course it will have serious effects. The same arguments that were put up by  Senator Cotton  can be used in respect of any other Bill that comes before this Senate. 
The Opposition has made up its mind to obstruct this legislation, in the same way as it obstructed legislation last week. I do not think there is any point in debating the matter further. The Opposition has made up its mind to obstruct this legislation. The Government will vote for the original motion I moved. The Opposition can have a week in which to consider this legislation and we will then consider it next week. The Opposition can make arrangements with  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Manager of Government Business in the Senate, as it always does. It will have a reasonable time to deal with this legislation. The comments of  Senator Cotton  can apply to any Bill. The Opposition is not attempting to review this legislation; it is obstructing it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out be left out. 
in reply- I will be very brief in reply, as  Senator Rae  who led for the Opposition said, as I understand it, that the Opposition will support the Bill but will suggest some minor amendments which we can deal with in the Committee stage. One of the points that  Senator Rae  makes is that the private sector- that is, the commercial child care centres- should be recognised. The Bill does not make any provision to exclude them, but obviously our emphasis is on community based nonprofit making programs. Incidentally, the Opposition, when in government, passed the Child Care Act which restricts assistance to non-profit organisations. So some of the provisions contained in this Bill were implemented by the people who are now in Opposition. A further point raised was whether pre-school child care would be included in these proposals. We hope that that will come about. We do not find any quarrel with  Senator Rae  on that point. 
In answer to another point raised by  Senator Rae,  we think that parents should be involved in the program and we would like that to come about.  Senator Rae  also asked whether play groups should be supported to help mothers who feel a sense of isolation. Play groups are mentioned in the second reading speech. Again it is the Government's wish that that sort of thing will come about. There are some difficulties in relation to the question whether child care centres should be attached to industries because it may tend to anchor a mother to a particular industry. In this age in which we have so many working mothers, they should have the opportunity to work where they like. Although prima facie it sounds a good proposition to have these child care centres attached to industries, it would, I think, if one thinks about it, incline to anchor a mother to a particular industry rather than allowing her to move further out. 
-I have just been handed a note which points out that the honourable senator recognises that point. I know that he was canvassing it and I think it is good that he did.  Senator Rae  also raised the question whether the setting up of the Commission will result in the development of a large bureaucracy. Nobody wants that sort of thing to develop. I know that there is always a danger with anything that is set up that it can get out of hand. What we are aiming for is a co-ordinated and integrated approach to the health, education and welfare of young people. We do not think that the Commission will necessitate a very large staff. 
The point was made that pre-school kindergartens are worried about their existence and their figure, given that conditions are being imposed upon them to extend services or to integrate with other children's services. I have a note here which say that  Mr Bowen,  who is the Minister in charge of this legislation, has told State Ministers personally and has confirmed in writing that with effect from 1 January 1976 recurrent grants for pre-schools throughout Australia will be provided on a basis of 75 per cent of the salaries of teachers and aides. That subsidy will be paid in respect of each pre-school which extends and/or integrates its services in a manner compatible with the philosophy of the Children's Commission and the needs of the particular community. One way in which that might be done would be through extended use of preschool buildings beyond the times for which they are now being used. It might be possible, for example, to allow play groups to use pre-school facilities during vacant times in order to provide some full day care, after school activities and school holiday programs. Pre-schools could also be used as a base from which to operate a family day care program which eligible children could attend on a sessional basis and where care givers could come together for discussions, seminars and the like. It might be possible also for a toy library to operate from the pre-school for other children's services. There are, of course, many options. We intend to be flexible in our interpretation of eligibility for subsidy. We would welcome suggestions from individual centres in relation to other extended services, particularly of an innovative nature, which would meet the needs of a local community. 
-Does the honourable senator not think that that is covered by the subsidy based on 75 per cent of the salaries of teachers and aides? That subsidy, which has already been approved, is added at the moment. I see the point that  Senator Rae  is making, and we can take it up for him. 

 Senator Sheil was rather a little bit more outside the bowling than was  Senator Rae.  He said that inflation, government spending and death duties were responsible for mothers having to go out to work. I thought that that was a little bit outside the sort of thing about which we are talking. When he said that it is a socialist plot to disrupt families in Australia I think he was really drawing the long bow. I remind you,  Mr President,  that the Child Care Act was passed by the McMahon Government because it recognised that an increasing number of mothers were going out to work. This Bill also recognises that fact. It is a fact of life. I suppose, according to  Senator Sheil,  what was done by that great socialist, the honourable Phillip Lynch, who introduced the Child Care Bill, ought not to be done by us. I think the appropriate comment is that  Senator Sheil  was really having himself on. I appreciate that the bulk of the Bill will be agreed to, although there are two rather small amendments and one very vital amendment to be dealt with in Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 (Short Title). 
As I am advised, we believe that it is covered under paragraph (c) and (g) of clause 3(1). Paragraph (c) states:  the care of children other than pre-school aged children at a time or times of the day when they are not being provided with an educational service and are not being cared for in their own homes; 
Paragraph (g) states:  other services, not being educational services or other services prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph, provided to children, or to the parents of children, that will be conducive to meeting the needs of children having special needs or to promoting the physical, social or mental development of children; . . . 
My advisers say that this matter has not been overlooked although it may not be as specific as  Senator Rae  thinks it ought to be in the Bill at the moment. I am sure that paragraphs (c) and (g) cover the situation. 
-The definition provides for a wide range of services for children throughout the community. Some services are directed specifically towards children whose parent or parents are working. Would anyone be prepared to say that these children do not have a need for care?  Senator Rae  did not say that; I am not accusing him of it. In 1972 the then Minister for Labour and National Service, the Honourable Phillip Lynch, introduced a Child Care Bill which was the McMahon Government's sole contribution to legislation in this field. It is worth examining the Child Care Act to see what assistance was given to the children of parents who were not employed. The answer, of course, is none. The Child Care Act was designed to cater for the children of working parents. By introducing this Bill the Government recognises that all children should have access to a comprehensive range of children's services to meet their needs, and the scope of the definition of 'services for children' is deliberately quite wide. For example, paragraph (b) refers to 'the education of pre-school aged children', paragraph (f) refers to 'assistance to, and counselling of, parents in relation to the raising of children', and paragraph (g) refers to 'other services', and obviously applies to all children. Sub-clause (4) refers to circumstances where parents are prevented, by reasons of illness or of an emergency, as well as by reason of being engaged in employment, from caring adequately for a child in its own home. 
The Child Care Act 1972, which as I said before was introduced by the Liberal and Country Party Government, provided for direct payments to non-profit organisations for child care centres. The present Government wishes to follow that example in relation to this Bill. Unlike the Child Care Act, this Bill provides for advisory boards to enable consultation with State governments, local government and the voluntary agencies involved in providing children's services. I think the crucial point is that substantial sums are already being paid through the State government departments, but this does not preclude payments to others. Under the Child Care Act payments were being made directly to the child care centres and the States were not able to apply for moneys. 
By retaining paragraph (d) we have a situation whereby the State can seek funds, but not exclusively so. The State can ask for money for child care centres, or the individual child care centres can ask for money. Incidentally, that provision was not in the Child Care Act, which was much more restrictive than this Bill. We are saying that the States can do this and in some cases moneys are already being paid out in this respect. If the Opposition succeeds with this amendment I think it is taking a flexibility out of the Bill. I do not think the Opposition really intends to do that. I think the Opposition is building up a fear that should not exist. I repeat that we will pay direct to these bodies and we can pay and, I am informed, are paying moneys through the States as well. So the States can make application for these moneys and so can the individual bodies. What the Opposition will be doing is taking away that provision. It did not have that flexibility in the Child Care Act. In our few years of wisdom I think we have been able to improve on the situation. I do not think it would be wise of  Senator Rae  to persist with this amendment. 
There is an interesting difference in approach.  Senator Rae  is right in that we agree that there ought to be consultation and co-operation with departments. He thinks that omitting the words 'to the greatest extent practicable' strengthens the clause. We believe that it strengthens the clause to leave the words in, because it becomes more mandatory on the officers to co-operate and consult with departments. What we are saying is that they should not only consult and co-operate, which is a subjective sort of opinion of somebody, but we are making it more mandatory by saying: 'You shall not only consult and co-operate but you shall do so to the greatest extent possible'- not just a mere cosmetic thing, talking to the States once every year or two, but to the greatest extent possible. We are trying to aim at the same thing. We do not think that it is a restrictive clause, as  Senator Rae  has pointed out, but it places a greater responsibility on the people involved in this matter to carry out the dictates of the Act. 
We never thought it necessary to include the words 'or of any State or Territory' because of clause 31 of the Bill which sets up State and Territory Children's Commission Advisory Boards. As I understand the matter, the draftsman felt that that clause adequately covers the points about which  Senator Rae  now has some doubt. I notice that when this matter was raised in the other place with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  whom I am representing here today, he pointed out that advisory boards, presently called consultative committees, already exist and they will continue. These advisory boards consist of representatives of State government, local government, community groups and at present the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission. The reason that the words are not included in this clause is that it was felt the matter was covered by clause 3 1 . 
I repeat that I do not think it is necessary, but I certainly would not take the matter to division because we are trying to aim at the one thing. I think clause 3 1 does cover the matter. I cannot quite follow  Senator Missen  when he puts a stricture on referring to another part of the Bill. After all, that is what we are dealing with. However, that is not important. We would vote against the inclusion of the words but I certainly would not seek to divide on it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 and 7- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Nature of Commission) 
As I understand it, this is a standard clause similar to clauses in legislation which set up such bodies as the Schools Commission and the Hospitals Commission. It is not meant that the Children's Commission shall go into the real estate business. 
-The latter is correct. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Membership of Commission). 
-Firstly, if we accommodated all the groups that wanted to be accommodated we would need a football team, Australian rules not rugby, to do so. Members of the Commission will not be representatives of any group but shall be appointed because of their expertise. It may be that teachers and nurses for instance would be in that category. There may be all sorts of people. I am told that at present seven out of eleven people appointed happen to be teachers. We do not wish to create a situation in which people are chosen to try to cover the whole spectrum of skills that would be interested in child care but to pick them for the particular expertise they have irrespective of what their professions might be. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 and 1 1- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 12 (Chairman and Deputy Chairman of Commission.) 
I do not recall the matter being raised in the House of Representatives. It might have been. Anyway that is not important. I appreciate  Senator Rae's  point that if one has an experienced person in a senior position on the Commission and that person is unable to carry on in that senior position in a full time capacity he may be able to devote a lesser amount of time to the Commission. I think that there would be a way in which to overcome that. Let us say that such a person resigned from the position of  chairman.  He could be appointed in another capacity. There could be a break between the two positions. He could resign at 6 o'clock one night and be appointed a part time member at 9 o'clock the next morning. So for that reason I do not think that it is necessary to include such a provision. I accept immediately that somebody who is interested in doing so and who has had experience in a senior position would be a very handy person to have around. I think that the situation could be covered in that way if such a person still wanted to give service in a lesser capacity and that person was a desirable person to have around. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 19- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 20 (Rights of public servant appointed as full time member). 
I have been informed that if we were getting somebody from a State we would be taking him for a particular period and would be entering into an arrangement with the State. His rights would be preserved under the law of that State. As I understand it, he would be in the same situation as a member of the Australian Public Service except that we have to cover the members of the Australian Public Service because they are our responsibility. The States would be covering their men whom we borrow. 
Clause 20 agreed to. 
Clauses 21 to 30- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 31 (State and Territory Children's Commission Advisory Boards). 

 - Senator Rae raised a point as to the areas from which the members of the advisory boards will be drawn. The intention is- he asked for the Government's thinking on this matter- that they will be drawn from a very wide range. They could be drawn from such bodies as kindergarten organisations, the Council of Social Services and so on. There is no limitation on that. I turn to the subject of how they would be selected. The Commonwealth obviously would select its own. The State governments would select their own. The local government appointments would be made after the fullest consultation. In other words I would say that in practice it would be just a matter of their recommending- they would sign an act or whatever they do- an appointment to the body and that person would be appointed. I do not see any great problems in that respect. 

 Senator Guilfoyle raised the point, I took it to be, of just how this thing might develop in a practical situation and not what is the intention of the legislation and as to whether there would be some rub between pre-school education and the provision of child care facilities. What we want to do in the whole of this matter is have a look at the overall situation of what is demanded by the child itself.  Senator Guilfoyle  finished her remarks by using those words herself. I think that what  Senator Guilfoyle  is getting at is that no matter what we might write down in this place, the organisation itself might not develop in the way in which its development is planned. The only answer I can give to that is that we should get our directions as clear as possible and then supervise how they are carried out.  Senator Guilfoyle  also mentioned the subject of cooperation. I thought that we had reached very sweet agreement on that in relation to clause 5 (4) when  Senator Rae  accepted my assurance that the retention of the words 'the greatest extent practicable' would make it more mandatory on the Commission to consult with the State bodies. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
-I do not think I should try to embark on answering that question off the cuff. I think I should get a written answer in order to try to put both questions in their proper perspective. 
I thank the Opposition for its support and for giving this Bill a reasonably speedy second reading. As  Senator Davidson  has said, we will deal with the proposed amendment at the Committee stage. I will keep my remarks on that proposed amendment until then.  Senator Davidson  has a tremendous interest in this kind of thing and I remember very well the speech which he gave concerning the library 2 or 3 years ago and which he quoted tonight. I could just about quote it back to him. Some of the philosophical matters that he raised, as well as the other fields of information to which he referred, are interesting. They are now on the record. 
The question of duplication of documents in such places as the library and the various departments is very important indeed.  Senator Davidson  would have knowledge of that. It is a constant challenge to ensure that that does not happen. Of course it is much more liable to happen with regard to archives. There has been duplication in the statistical field and hopefully this Bill, by setting up a central body, will be able to organise across departments and will help to remove the duplication, or at least stop it from growing, and hopefully will cut it back and get it into its proper perspective. 
The question of privacy is very important. But this Bill does not really touch on that matter. I am informed that that will be dealt with in later comprehensive legislation which was foreshadowed in the second reading speech. So  Senator Davidson's  remarks and the study which he has put into this matter will not go amiss when a Bill is introduced at another time. I will not say any more. I thank the Opposition. We will deal with the proposed amendment specifically in the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Proposed new clause 6a. 
-At the moment they are here on temporary residence. I will have to check on the 2 categories. I have a prepared answer that may be of interest to the honourable senator. The question of permanent residence is essentially a matter for my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration, with whom I can check this matter. All Vietnamese and Combodian students and former diplomats in Australia are assured of being able to stay in Australia for the time being through the extension of their temporary residence status. However, if any of them wish to remain here beyond the date of expiry of their present temporary entry permits the Australian Government will be happy to consider applications for further stay in the light of the circumstances at that time. That would seem to suggest that both categories could apply for permanent residence. However, I will check with the Department of Labor and Immigration and let the honourable senator know. 
As far as can be ascertained, 4 members of the Soviet chapter of Amnesty International have been questioned or detained recently. Only one is still under detention. There is some doubt about the status of the Soviet chapter under Soviet law. As far we know, permission has not been sought from or given by the Soviet authorities for the establishment of an Amnesty International chapter in the Soviet Union. It would seem, therefore, that the chapter has no official recognition under Soviet law. The Soviet Union regards matters such as these as falling within its domestic jurisdiction. The Australian Government has, however, made known to the Soviet authorities on a number of occasions the concern felt in Australia about human rights issues in the U.S.S.R. In the light of representations which have been made, the Department of Foreign Affairs has drawn to the attention of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra the concern that has been expressed in Australia at the reports about arrests of members of the Amnesty International chapter in the U.S.S.R. 
-I think I read the reports in the newspapers, but I am not quite sure. I did take up  Senator Chaney's  question yesterday and I have some information on it today. The Chinese Communist Party has recently issued statements marking the 55th anniversary of the Communist Party of Indonesia on 22 May and the 45th anniversary of the Malayan Communist Party on 30 April. There were broadcasts over Radio Peking. The Press has reported that the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  has reacted strongly to the messages to the Indonesian Communist Party. We are not aware of any public reaction by the Malaysian Government. As to what Australia should do about it, I do not think Australia can be in the business of reacting instantly to everything that is going on between other countries in our region. I might have personal opinions in relation to such matters but I just do not think it is wise to make a public statement. The statements were made by the Communist Party of China and not by the Chinese Government, and I do not think we ought to be over-reacting to them. If it comes to doing something about Australia, that is a different matter. 
-We get the usual paranoid interjection from  Senator Greenwood  that we are not concerned about any other country but Australia. It is not a question of not being concerned. I have said many times that because of the situation in which we find ourselves in this area we should be as helpful as we can but not meddlesome, and that comment still stands. I do not think it is the job of Australia to jump in and react instantly to everything the Press says or to every comment that some country makes about another country. I just do not think that that is the future for Australia. 
-A team left, I think, yesterday morning for Hong Kong to do a survey of the refugees there. The team is going there specifically to carry out the checks. We could easily get its members to inquire about the ships and to see whether they can pick up any information there. I do not have any later information on the ships. So far as I know they have not been picked up by any surveillance operations. That is not to say that the ships are not here because they could have been missed. I will check up on the matter and if I have any later information I will let  Senator Davidson  know. 
I think the question whether what one Minister says becomes government policy has been raised as long as 1 have been in this Parliament. No, it does not. I think we will always get Ministers and members of Parliament giving their opinions on all sorts of things, whether foreign policy, trade, taxation or any of the other issues that the Press blows up from time to time. Official statements on foreign policy would come from either the Prime Minister of Australia or the Foreign Minister. 
I accept  Senator Davidson's  amendment with understanding. I believe that he is quite sincere in what he is saying, and so I do accept it with understanding. However, I think it is an unnecessary amendment. In fact, it could be damaging to the efficiency of this Bureau. Because of that I ask the Senate to vote against it. Firstly, it would greatly inhibit the flexibility of the Bureau to respond quickly to changing government needs. For instance, quite recently the Bureau introduced a new survey of import orders within a few weeks of receiving a direction from the Government to do so in the light of the impact of rising imports on unemployment. If the proposed amendment had been in operation and if Parliament had been in recess, it would not have been possible to introduce that survey which obviously provided valuable information for the Government to make a decision. 
So I think it can be seen immediately, if such small things that would be within the annual Budget of the Bureau had to go before the Parliament, where the inflexibility would creep in. Such a process would detract from the present authority of the Minister to determine the activities of the Bureau which is under his ministerial control. Since he will have the advice of both the 
Advisory Council and the Statistician the Minister is in the best position to determine statistical priorities. I know that  Senator Davidson  comes back to the point of having parliamentary control over these matters, but I am sure that he does not suggest that we should get around ministerial responsibility. The Minister's hand is strengthened and safeguarded by this Bill because of the Advisory Council and the new Bureau. Probably the most critical point of all, when talking of parliamentary control, is that the Bureau of Statistics could not undertake any major new statistical collection without prior expenditure approval by the Minister and the Parliament. Hence the Parliament and the Minister would have ultimate control over all new programs of the Bureau. 

 Senator Davidson might think that by saying that I am contradicting what I said at the beginning of my remarks, but it is not a contradiction because the second matter is a major one which comes into the Budget considerations. Therefore the major proposals of the Bureau for the ensuing year could come under questioning at that time and there would be the normal parliamentary control that operates now. The first matter I mentioned would be a minor one and would involve such things as looking at import controls, which the Minister could quickly switch on. If honourable senators think about the amendment a bit they will see that it would have an inhibiting effect and provide for nothing very new in the legislation, which has already been operating for several years, in the way of greater efficiency, greater movement away from duplication and that type of thing. 
in reply- I will be very brief in my reply and we will then deal with the foreshadowed amendment, which is a simple one, in Committee. Although it is really quite outside the terms of the Bill- I do not complain about that because this is still a comparatively new area and comments are welcomethere has been an assertion that State governments could better assess the needs of local government bodies than could the Grants Commission. The substantial interstate differences and the responsibilities and fiscal needs of local governing bodies require that recommendations for assistance from the Australian Government be based on the assessment of criteria applied uniformly throughout Australia. The role of the Grants Commission in respect of local governing bodies is an extension of the role which it has been carrying out since 1933 with regard to the claimant States. Each of its annual recommendations has been accepted by the Government in power, regardless of its political persuasion. 
The Grants Commission is the best qualified body in Australia to undertake an assessment of the relative needs of the local governing bodies on a nation-wide basis. State governments have a clear involvement in the scheme. The Grants Commission Act requires the responsible Australian Government Minister to consult with them on the determination of regional boundaries and on applications for financial assistance received from local governing bodies. The Commission also welcomes submissions from the appropriate State Ministers concerning applications by local government authorities in the State. Although it is outside the terms of the Bill, I make that comment because there is a sincerely held view that State governments could do better than the Grants Commission. In view of the variations in the States, it is most essential that we have for the time being a central body such as the 
Grants Commission. I am glad that the Opposition is supporting the Bill. The foreshadowed amendment will be dealt with in Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee. 
The Bill. 
Paragraph (b) of proposed sub-section (6A) applies to a person who was a judge before taking up a position on the Grants Commission. In the strict sense, the Commission does not exercise Federal judicial power as that term is used in the Constitution, but neither does the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal, or the Flight Crew Officers' Tribunal. Yet members of each of those bodies are designated as justices. Even if that designation were removed, I think that in practical terms if a well-known judge, as is the case at the moment, happens to be a member of the Commission he would still be referred to as a judge because he has been working in that field. I do not think the field in which he practised would make very much difference. 
I simply make the point that those other bodies do not operate in the manner of a court or, to be much softer, with rules of evidence and that sort of thing. Over the 40 years 3 out of the 5 chairmen have been lawyers. It seems that there has been a need for judicial knowledge over the years. I suggest this knowledge is needed even more now that the Grants Commission has moved into the more complex field of local government bodies as well as dealing with the States. I listened to  Senator Carrick  's speech during the second reading debate on this proposition. The amendment was moved in another place and the Government resisted it there because we think there is no great harm done. The Bill as it stands does bring this judicial element into the situation and the same term is used in regard to its sister bodies, if I can use that expression. 
-On 27 February 1975  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question, without notice, concerning aid to Cambodia. The following further information is provided in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Government is ready to assist with the airlift of suplies to Phnom Penh. Two RAAF Hercules aircraft with U.N. markings are carrying U.N. relief supplies to destinations requested by UNHCR. The new Government of Cambodia (GRUNK.) has not yet requested any country or the UN to provide any form of humanitarian assistance to Phnom Penh. Australia stands ready to assist, if such a request is made. 
I lay on the table the text of the undermentioned treaties which have entered into force and to which Australia has become a party by signature. I ask for leave to incorporate the rest of the statement in Hansard. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a discussion paper entitled: 'Review of Customs By-Law Policy' dated May 1975. 

 -No, Mr President. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Services and Property and obtain a reply for the honourable senator. 
Yes, 1 will find out from the Special Minister of State. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report for the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Luncheons, dinners and that sort of thing are, I think, about the only things that I am not supposed to run in my Department. I am supposed to answer questions about the administration of my Department, and the culinary desires of people just do not come within that category. Probably what  Senator Greenwood  is referring to is the occasion when the Socialist International met in Adelaide, and I understand that some luncheons were given. I had an appointment to see some of the delegates but I was unable to do so because I was pinned down in the Senate. One of the gentlemen to whom  Senator Greenwood  referred is a former commissioner of the European Economic Community. He was also Minister for Agriculture in the Dutch Government, so he has a fairly good record. I am afraid that I cannot follow the meanderings of  Senator Greenwood  in this matter. If he asks me a question about what we, as a government, or I, as a Minister, have done, I will be able to answer it. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs state that the Australian Government has a standard for the Chilean Government which is different from the standard that it has for other governments, or does he say that it adopts the same standard? 
-I ask that the question be put on the notice paper. 
-Largely the question that  Senator Sim  has put to me relates to trade and therefore I hesitate to go too deeply into it. I recall that our trade policy is to give to certain developing countries- whether the 2 countries referred to are involved I am not too sure- an advantage by way of tariff concessions. Not only did we cut the tariff but we cut it further for certain developing countries. Additionally we set up in the Department of Overseas Trade a section which would help those countries to penetrate our markets. I suppose one might term it a trade commissioner in reverse; instead of selling our goods an opportunity is being given for those countries to sell in our markets. The Government does take this matter quite seriously. When the honourable senator first started talking about complaints, I thought he was going to refer to the textile organisations in Australia from which we get some complaints. So, we are getting complaints both ways. The general thrust of  Senator Sim's  question is right. The matter is tremendously important. In the final analysis aid is not merely a process of trying to give people food and trying to get them to grow their own food in certain cases, but of giving them a chance to trade in the general markets of the world. 
-The Australian Government was dismayed, as I think anybody would have been, at the reported shooting of 1 1 Africans in Salisbury on 1 June by Southern Rhodesian police. Although the disturbances that resulted in the shooting apparently were touched off by disagreement between rival nationalist groups, the illegal Smith regime by its intransigence and attitudes towards constitutional negotiations which should lead to majority rule must bear a primary responsibility for creating the situation underlying the tragedy. The Government hopes that the violence will not jeopardise efforts to achieve a settlement by peaceful means and that such efforts will continue. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in South Australia having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975. As honourable senators are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of South Australia was laid before both Houses of the Parliament on 15 April 1975, pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in pursuance of sections 1 8a and 2 1 of that Act. The motion for the approval of the re-distribution proposed in that report was passed by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975 but was negated by the Senate on the following day. 
The Government has decided to introduce 5 separate Bills to implement the Distribution Commissioners' proposed electoral divisions for South Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. This action has been taken because of the uncompromising attitude adopted by the Opposition parties in this chamber towards the re-distribution proposals for each of the 5 States concerned. In rejecting all the redistribution proposals, both Opposition parties have been motivated by their objection to the basic redistribution ground rules as set out in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which must be observed by the Distribution Commissioners. Accordingly, it is quite clear that there would be no point in the Minister directing the Distribution Commissioners to propose a fresh distribution in the States concerned, as allowed under section 24(2) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
The Government does not overlook the possibility that the Opposition may even choose to reject this Bill itself in this chamber, but nevertheless we believe that redistributions have become a matter of urgent necessity in order to pro- . vide equality of representation for every elector. The Government is not prepared to wait until 1977 or 1978 for a redistribution, even supposing that future Distribution Commissioners could produce proposals which would please the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. 
The Opposition may be quite happy to postpone this overdue redistribution indefinitely, but the Government has no intention of waiting until the inequalities in electoral representation become as outrageous as they did prior to the 1968 redistribution, with a disparity of some 100 000 in enrolments between some divisions. The incorporation of these redistribution proposals in legislative form will enable, if necessary, these proposals to be submitted to the judgment of the electorate, together with other items of proposed legislation already obstructed by the Opposition parties in the Senate. Accordingly, the Government has no hesitation, within the terms of the Constitution, in taking whatever action is needed to ensure that the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, for each of the 5 States concerned, are given legislative effect at the earliest possible date. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by .  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Tasmania having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975. As honourable senators are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Tasmania was laid before both Houses on 17 April 1975 pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 1 8A and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975 but was negated by the Senate on the following day. I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks on the first of the 5 electoral redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills and there is no need to reiterate those remarks in dealing with this Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Queensland having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975. As honourable senators are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Queensland was laid before both Houses on 1 7 April 1975 pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 1 8a and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975 but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks on the first of the 5 electoral redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills and there is no need to reiterate those remarks in dealing with this Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Victoria having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975. As honourable senators are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Victoria was laid before the House of Representatives on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 18A and 21 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975 but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. 1 have already indicated, in the course of my remarks dealing with the first of these 5 related electoral redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in New South Wales having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975. As honourable senators are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of New South Wales was laid before the House of Representatives on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day, pursuant to section 23 A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 1 8a and 21 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks dealing with the first of these five related electoral redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I ask for leave to make a statement on this matter. 
-Senator Greenwood asked me a question this morning. I have been listening to this debate and I have been trying to find out some information about the question because as I said this morning, he was referring to a dinner and a luncheon of which I had virtually no knowledge. I pointed that out. I have been trying to find out something about it. I have just heard  Senator Greenwood  denying that he said Socialist International was a clandestine organisation and so on which  Senator Wheeldon  - 
-Senator Wheeldon said that you claimed it to be a clandestine organisation. I will quote  Senator Greenwood  's question to me, and if he denies it we will have to take it up with Hansard and finally with you,  Mr President,  if Hansard has wilfully done terrible things to him. The following appears in Hansard: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the dinner which the Prime Minister gave, I think it was on 1 4 May, for the  President  of the outlawed and unlawful Chilean Radical Party - 
Take note of the word 'for'-  and to the luncheon at Parliament House held by the Australian Labor Party in honour of that  President.  I refer also to the Prime Minister's promise personally to support this clandestine organisation and to the statement of the ViceChairman of the Socialist International who was recently in Australia, MrSicco Minholt, that the ALP will give financial support to that Party. 
SenatorGietzelt- . . . Your parties take money from insurance companies- 
I repeat the words ' to intervene '-  in the affairs of another country and support the clandestine activities of subversive movements? 
It seems to me that  Senator Wheeldon  was not far off the mark when he used the words 'subversive' and 'clandestine'. The words which  Senator Greenwood  used were 'and support the clandestine activities of subversive movements'.  Senator Greenwood  asked: 
Will the Minister state why the Government intervenes to support clandestine activities designed to overthrow a government which Australia recognises? What is the principle upon which the Government detests and apparently supports the overthrow of a Chilean military dictatorship but supports communist military dictatorships? 
The first thing which I want to put as factually as I can, without misquoting  Senator Greenwood,  is that he said that the dinner was held for the  President  of the outlawed and unlawful Chilean Radical Party. The facts which I have been able to get are that both the lunch and the dinner were held for the delegates of the Socialist International which was meeting in Australia. The Australian Labor Party is a member of the Socialist International. I do not see anything wrong with giving lunch, dinner or drinks to, or having a conversation with, these people. As I explained this morning, I was due to meet these people. An appointment had been made to see them. Unfortunately- I regret it very much- I was unable to see these very distinguished people. 
I understand that  Senator Greenwood  said that I took a cavalier attitude to the question. I think I probably hold the heavyweight title in this connection. Every now and again honourable senators opposite say that I treat questions in a cavalier fashion or that I do not treat them as seriously as I should. I put it to them that the questions are put to me in a very cavalier manner. They are not questions seeking information. Anybody with any fairness in his mind would agree that in the  2ยฝ  years that I have been answering questions on foreign affairs, when somebody asks seriously for information, I give it if I have the knowledge. I undertake to find out if I have not the knowledge. When there is a spate of propaganda and a spate of abuse- generally of the Prime Minister, sometimes of myself to a lesser degree, and of other Ministers- I could hardly be expected to treat these questions seriously. I digress for a moment. My good friend  Senator Sim  from my State of Western Australia asked a question recently about a  Mr Tran  Van Lam, who is known to a lot of us. He was ambassador to this country for South Vietnam. He later became the Foreign Minister of South Vietnam, then the  President  of the Senate of that country. As I understand it, he ought to have been the man who made the arrangements for the handing over of South Vietnam on the fall of that country. There was a long line of abuse about him by  Senator Sim.  I think  Senator Sim  asked why the Government was giving him the runaround and why  Mr Whitlam  did certain things. My answer was that we had already agreed that  Mr Tran  Van Lam should come to Australia. If  Senator Sim  had asked a simple question, seeking information, whether the application of Tran Van Lam to come to Australia had been approved, the answer would have been yes, which is what the answer was. Why do honourable senators opposite go on with this propaganda and with this senseless and untrue abuse of the Prime Minister when we had done exactly what I assume  Senator Sim  and the Liberal Party wanted us to do, namely, to bring to Australia a man who had some connections with Australia? Under the criteria that we used, we invited that gentleman to Australia. 
I digressed for a moment to point out that this matter is really a little silly and a little vicious. Obviously it is senseless abuse when it is not warranted. One could hardly be blamed for adopting a cavalier attitude, which is the term used by  Senator Greenwood,  when questions are put in a cavalier manner. I go out of my way to supply information because one thing that I would like to do is to try to convey not only to this Parliament but also to the people of Australia a better understanding of foreign affairs. I can hardly be expected to do so when the questions asked of me are so difficult to deal with. 
-That is quite a stupid statement, but no more stupid than those which the honourable senator generally makes. If the Opposition asks for information, if it genuinely wants to know anything in the field of foreign affairs, believe me, I would like to convey the information sought. I would like to see in Australia a healthy debate on foreign affairs, but I have almost despaired of getting an honest and decent approach on the important matter of foreign affairs. 
The Australian Government has not said anything about this matter. It will be a matter for the Party, which is a member of the Socialist International, to decide whether an appeal by its brothers in Socialist International should be supported or rejected. The Federal Executive often had similar questions, I can remember, over the years on the question of Socialist International. One of the people whom the Opposition is abusing is  Mr Sule.  I just happened to come across this information in my inquiries. He was a member of the Government when the junta took over. He was gaoled for 60 days in solitary confinement. Special reference was made to this man. 
-The great difference between the Labor and Liberal parties- I can go back to 195 1 when the Communist Party Dissolution Bill was debated- is that we stood for a principle that a crime is a crime. If it is committed by a communist it is a crime. If it is committed by a bishop of a church it is a crime. One must examine the act itself. By way of interjection  Senator Sim  said that some non-communists could be gaoled. I do not know whether  Mr Suk  is a communist. I know he is an individual. He is a human being. He was gaoled without reason for 60 days in solitary confinement. I abhor that. I believe it is wrong if a non-communist, somebody of religion or anybody else is gaoled. 
Over all those years the difference between the Labor Party and the non-Labor parties has been that if the non-Labor parties think a man is a communist nothing is too bad for him; if they think he is a non-communist, even if he is a murderer, they hold that he should not have anything done to him. We say that the act itself should be punishable, not a person's belief, his religion or his colour. I know that these questions upset people in the Liberal Party badly.  Mr Sule  went to Dawson Island at the South Pole for 8 months. He was forced to build concentration camps there. He spent the next 17 months in 10 different concentration camps going through all that this new junta did to him. I believe that is wrong. I do not know whether the man is a communist. I am not interested. If a man is treated like that it is bad, not only for Chile but for the whole international community. I want to point out that the inferences and direct statements in  Senator Greenwood's  question this morning were wrong. The Australian Government has not made any financial promises to these people. It will be a matter for our Party, which is part of Socialist International. 
The other thing that  Senator Greenwood  said was that the dinner was for the  President  of the outlawed and unlawful Chilean Radical Party. I heard  Senator Wheeldon  say today that many organisations have been unlawful and have been outlawed by parties. Today some of those organisations form the governments in the countries concerned, particularly in the African countries. The fact is that the luncheon and the dinner were given for the members of the Socialist International, of which the Australian Labor Party is a member. What is more natural than to show some hospitality to the people from that organisation when they are in this country? The luncheon and the dinner had nothing to do with the Government. Nine governments were represented at the conference. They were the governments of Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden, New Zealand, Great Britain, West Germany 
And Israel. I did not jot them all down. I have referred to seven of the governments which were represented. I have missed one other. How can  Senator Greenwood  or anybody else say that we were looking after a bunch of murderers or whatever they imply that these people are? As I said, they were members of the Socialist International, of which the Australian Labor Party is a member, and what is more natural than that we would be talking to them? All this has been blown up out as a great figment of  Senator Greenwood  's imagination. 
-I heard every word that  Senator Greenwood  said. Here is  Senator Greenwood,  a lawyer- so I believe- and an exAttorneyGeneral saying: 'I have a Press report. 
That is the Bible; that is correct'. Who is he trying to kid? 
If I and every member of the Government were to chase around and answer all the Press reports that relate to us we would be doing nothing else but answering Press reports. The fact is that Press reports sometimes are based on sheer imagination and sometimes on deliberate leaks which come from people who have a vested interest in a matter. I am stating to  Senator Greenwood  the facts of the matter. I do not chase around answering Press reports. Very rarely do I do that. Only if Press reports attack members of my family, or something like that, do I ever worry about Press reports. If I were to worry about every Press report, the Press would have me in such a situation that I would be doing nothing else but answering Press reports. That has been the experience of every senior member of any government- whether it be a Liberal government or a Labor government- although I think that we cop it a little bit worse. 
I have pointed out that the whole of  Senator Greenwood  's question was based- I say this with great respect to him- on very deliberate misrepresentations.  Senator Greenwood  asked whether the dinner was for the  President.  It was not. It was a normal dinner. Then he asked whether it is proper to intervene in the affairs of another country. The Government is not interfering in the affairs of another government. We have made no secret of the fact that a democratically elected government in Chile was overthrown. We did not like it, but we have kept our representation in Chile. We still have an Embassy operating in Chile today- as much as we may regret the way in which the Government in Chile came to power. We may regret the way in which many governments have come to power. The main question is: Where does Australia stand in all these things? We have had criticisms about what has been done in several countries, but as the Foreign Minister I believe that we ought to be able to have as many contacts as we can throughout the world. As much as we regret the Chilean situation, the way in which governments in other countries have come to power, and the fact that some sections of the people in those countries have been brought under the power of those governments, nevertheless we believe that the best thing for Australia to do is to recognise those governments. We do it in Chile. 
I have pointed out that  Senator Greenwood  started today by asking a question that was based on complete untruths. He could very easily have checked the matter. He did not have to throw in this propaganda without checking it. He could easily have ascertained what the situation was. We are dealing with people. I have just referred to the record of one of those people. If that man had been a Liberal or a member of the National Country Party of Australia, how would  Senator Greenwood  be feeling about him? That man spent a couple of years in gaol, in solitary confinement and in concentration camps at the South Pole. I find it hard to get very serious about this furore when  Senator Greenwood  talks about these sorts of things. 
-I do not know what  Senator Marriott  means when he says that I have taken a long time to do it. I had no knowledge of the situation. I and my staff have been working, trying to get for  Senator Greenwood  some information about this situation.  Senator Greenwood  said that I treated his question in a cavalier manner. I repeat- I say this without any doubt at ailthat if somebody asks me a serious question I will answer it. If I cannot answer it, I will certainly go to extreme lengths to find out all I can about it. But when  Senator Greenwood  stands in the Senate, puts on a propaganda act, talks about things of which I cannot possibly have any knowledge, makes a lot of mis-statements, and says a lot of things based on lies, I do not think that he can expect to get a very serious answer. The fact is that  Senator Greenwood  is trying to blow up this situation because, as I have said on many occasions, if one belongs to a communist party or to a socialist party or even to a little left wing party, one is evil or bad and has no right to exist. But if one believes in another philosophy, of course one is on the side of the angels. 
Quite frankly, although  Senator Greenwood  holds the position of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I find it very difficult to take him seriously. He runs a propaganda line. When he takes a quite incomprehensible, hysterical and vicious line it is very difficult to take him seriously. The situation is that the luncheon and the dinner were not held for any one person. They were held by the Australian Labor Party for people who were associated with us at the Socialist International. They had nothing to do with the Government. The Government has not promised financial aid. The Government has never suggested that it should intervene in the affairs of the Chilean or any other government. 
After all, there are other countries- Korea comes readily to mind- where we recognise a communist government and a government that is very much anti-communist. We treat those governments on a proper basis, in the best interests of Australia. 
On 13 May 1975  Senator Davidson  asked the following question, without notice: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is in relation to the resettlement of Vietnamese refugees. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the voluntary agency known as World Christian Action has indicated to the Government that it is prepared to render the maximum co-operation and assistance to the Government in resettlement of the Vietnamese refugees? ls the Minister aware that this agency has expertise, personnel and international connections as well as long years of experience in refugee resettlement in many parts of the world? Will he respond to its offer of assistance by conferring with it and widening the criteria for the admission of Vietnamese refugees? 
The following answer was given to the honourable senator's question at the time: 
What has happened regarding the whole question of refugees is that we have made an approach through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. He has cabled us in connection with this matter and it is under study at this very moment. We have, of course, sent people to Guam to pick up those people who have escaped from Vietnam and who come within our categories so that they can be processed and brought here. As to the special organisation mentioned by the honourable senator, I will do a check on that matter and give him some more information on it. 
In relation to the further information to be provided to the honourable senator, the following situation pertains: 
Checks which I have made have not revealed any record of an approach or offer to the Government by an organisation known as World Christian Action. 
Geneva Conference on the Middle East 
-On 20 May 1975,  Senator Wright  asked the following questions, without notice: 
What is the present status of the proposed United Nations conference in Geneva having reference to the question of Palestine? Have both Co-Chairmen agreed to hold the conference? What date has been fixed and what is the agenda? Are the parties committed to that conference? 
The answers to the honourable senator's questions are as follows: 
Following the suspension on 22 March of efforts by  Dr Kissinger,  the United States Secretary of State, to bring about a second-stage agreement between Egypt and Israel, the Egyptian Government has formally requested the two Co-Chairmen of the Geneva Conference on the Middle East, the United States and the Soviet Union, to re-convene the Conference as soon as possible. The Conference would bc expected to deal with all aspects of the Middle East situation, including the Palestine question. 
As far as we are aware, the Co-Chairmen, while agreeing on the desirability of re-convening the Geneva Conference at an appropriate time, have not yet agreed on a date nor on a precise agenda for a Conference. The United States, it is understood, nas not excluded the possibility of further steps towards a Middle East settlement in advance of or separate from any such Conference. 
The attitudes of all the potential parties to the Conference have not been fully clarified. As well as Egypt itself, Israel and Syria appear to be willing in principle to attend the Conference. It is not yet clear whether Jordan will take part or how the Palestinians will be represented. 
No new post is being created for  Mr Barnard.  I think that answers the question. 
-There is no alteration in the representation in Norway. 
Pursuant to section 98 of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974, I present the final report of the operations of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation for the period 1 July 1974 to 31 January 1975, together with financial statements for that period and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report on flat glass, table and kitchen glassware by the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Rev. Ronald Marstin has not approached the Austraiian Consulate General, New York nor are we aware of any approaches to other Australian Consular Offices in the United States. 
The United States immigration authorities have no record of any approaches seeking curtailment of Father Marstin 's current visa. 
-President Sadat will reopen the Suez Canal on 5 June in a formal ceremony to be attended by heads of state, heads of government and other representatives. The Australian Government's representative at the opening ceremony will be the  chairman  of the Australian Shipping Commission,  Mr N.  G. Jenner. The Prime Minister has sent a message applauding  President  Sadat's decision to reopen the Canal.  President  Sadat has declared that the Canal will be available to all international shipping except vessels flying the Israeli flag. There remains some ambiguity as to whether nonIsraeli vessels carrying Israeli cargoes will be permitted to use the Canal. 
The Australian Government regards the decision as a positive move towards peace in the Middle East and as an act of consideration for countries disadvantaged by the Canal's long closure. The Government also would hope that in accordance with the principle of freedom of international trade and as another step towards peace and harmony in the Middle East the Egyptian Government also before long will open the Canal to Israeli ships and cargoes. The Government also notes that news reports of 3 June indicate that Israel has decided to withdraw some troops and equipment from the Sinai, lt is hoped that this move also will result in reduced tension in the area. There have been some reports alsomerely newspaper reports at the moment- of Syrian troops being withdrawn from the Golan Heights. 
On 13 May 1975,  Senator Baume  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: 
Was an approach made recently by  Mr Michael  Darby for Australian Government assistance in obtaining travel to Guam for a medical team? Had  Mr Darby  assembled, for the purpose of assisting with the care of the refugees, several tons of pharmaceutical goods, dried milk and other foodstuffs, together with teams of doctors and nurses? Was the plan to establish an Australian presence to serve humanitarian objectives for the large number of Vietnamese refugees in Guam and, as such, was the proposed mission one of which all Australians would approve? Had cables been received from the senior American officer on Guam welcoming the proposed help? Did the Department of Foreign Affairs decide not to assist the expedition to obtain the transport which it required to get its members and assembled goods to Guam? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 

 Mr Michael Darby informed my Department early in May that he had collected 1000 kgs of drugs plus 4 tonnes of other unspecified supplies for Vietnamese refugees. He also stated that he had assembled a number of doctors and nurses who were available to work with Vietnamese refugees. In recent weeks  Mr Darby  has approached a number of officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs, in the Australian Development Assistance Agency, in my office and in the Defence Department, as well, apparently, as the honourable senator, concerning his desire to send this team to various pans of Asia.  Mr Darby  has also been in touch with the American Embassy. The American Embassy indicated they would be happy to accept the proposed offer, but that they could not provide accommodation on Guam for the team nor could they provide transport to Guam. lt is essential if humanitarian assistance is to be effective and efficient that it should be well co-ordinated, and that this assistance is in response to known needs and not needs sought out in order to utilise available assistance. The Australian Government itself has acted on this principle in making available in the current financial year $3.7m for humanitarian relief throughout Indo-China, which is channelled through various United Nations agencies who have themselves co-ordinated their activities in the area. 
The Australian Government also welcomes the offer of aid and assistance by private bodies and organisations. The Australian Development Assistance Agency co-ordinates such activities in conjunction with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid (ACFOA), which includes such organisations as AUSTCARE, Australian Council of Churches, Australian Catholic Relief, Federation of Jewish Welfare Societies, Freedom from Hunger and Vietnam Orphans Fund. ADAA and ACFOA worked together most successfully to ensure the delivery to Vietnam of a number of supplies collected by various bodies for humanitarian relief in Vietnam. ACFOA performs a most desirable co-ordinating role and itself recognises the need for coordination. The Disaster Emergencies Committee of ACFOA believes that all medical teams should operate under the auspices of the Red Cross Society.  Mr Darby  was informed of this by the ACFOA, but I understand that he stated that he did not wish to work with the Red Cross Society. This was the background against which no decision was taken by the Australian Government to provide assistance to  Mr Darby's  enterprise, although it was made clear that if the group wished to proceed they were free to do so, 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to the important co-ordinating role of the Australian Council of Overseas Aid and commend it to all private individuals and organisations who wish to provide assistance abroad. This will ensure that a co-ordinated approach, which is more effective and more efficient in meeting the real needs of any situation, is followed. It will also avoid the confusion created by uncoordinated activities and approaches to different bodies by various private individuals and organisations. 
This question has been taken up with the Commonwealth Statistician and he has supplied advice in the following terms: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics publishes monthly imports statistics as follows: total value of imports about 7 days after the end of the month; the value of broad commodity groupings about 1 week later; and statistics of imports of some 900 selected commodities or commodity groupings 6-7 weeks after the end of the month. In addition, a regular reporting service is available which provides to some 2000 subscribers detailed commodity information which may not be published elsewhere, usually about 4-5 weeks after the end of the month. 
However, there are over 6200 commodities identified in import statistics and the Bureau 's resources would not permit it to provide information for all these commodities on a weekly basis. 
I will certainly take up the matter. I do not think we will be able to have something by Tuesday. The matter may necessitate our doing something in London, but I will certainly deal with it as quickly as possible. 
On 29 May  Senator Davidson  asked the following question, without notice: 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to reports in today's Press concerning a mission leaving for Hong Kong to determine the number of Vietnamese refugees eligible to enter Australia. Is this mission visiting Hong Kong at the request or suggestion of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees? Will the mission make inquiries regarding the whereabouts of ships reported to be making their way to Australia? If not, can the Minister give the Senate any later information concerning these people?' 
I confirmed that a team had gone to Hong Kong to do a survey of refugees and undertook to see what further information could be obtained with regard to any ships that might be heading for Australia carrying refugees. I wish to advise the honourable senator that from the information available to the Government it does appear that any ships carrying Vietnamese refugees have headed for Australia. 
On 5 June 1975  Senator Gietzelt  asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question without notice: 
In view of Australia's good relations with both Thailand and the United States of America, will the Minister indicate whether any official statement has been made commenting on the recent use of United States bases in Thailand over the Mayaguez' incident against the expressed wish of the Thai Government? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government supports the territorial sovereignty of both Cambodia and Thailand and will use all diplomatic means to express the attitude of the Australian Government to the United States against the use of force between friendly nations? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Australia supports the territorial integrity of all countries including Cambodia and Thailand. The use of facilities in Thailand by United States Armed Forces in connexion with the Mayaguez incident is a matter for the Thai and United States Governments. It is understood that on 19 May the United States Charge d 'Affaires to Thailand delivered a Note to the Thai Government in which the United States Government expressed regret for the problems caused to Thailand by its use of facilities in Thailand during the Mayaguez incident. The Thai Government has expressed satisfaction with the United States Note which it considered as a formal apology. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) Whether changed circumstances have affected the Paris Agreements is really a matter for those who signed the Agreements. Australia was not a signatory. The Australian Government does, however, support the principles of national reconciliation, general elections, and reunification by negotiation, all of which were included in the Paris Agreements. 
The answer to the honourable Senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government took prompt action in approaching the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to urge that there should be co-ordinated international action under the direction of the High Commissioner for the placement of refugees from Vietnam in as many countries as possible. 
The Government subsequently received an official approach from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees asking it to take some of the refugees and the Government replied that it was willing to do so. 
Immigration officers were sent to Guam and arranged for the transport to Australia of Vietnamese persons there who were approved for entry into Australia. Immigration officers were also sent to Hong Kong where they processed and arranged for the movement to Australia by charter flight of 20 1 Vietnamese refugees. The Government is in touch with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees about the general situation of Vietnamese refugees and is examining what further action it might take. As the Prime Minister has announced, the criteria for refugees are obviously wider than normal migrant criteria. 
On 11 June 1975,  Senator Sim  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
As the Government has recognised the Provisional Revolutionary Government as the Government of the Republic of South Vietnam I ask: Is it a fact that the Democratic Republic of Vietnam has not recognised the PRG as the Government of the Republic of South Vietnam? Is it also a fact that the administration of South Vietnam is being conducted by North Vietnamese military forces and not the PRG? Is the Minister aware that all indications are that the control of South Vietnam will be exercised by the People's Revolutionary Party of South Vietnam, referred to by North Vietnam as the Southern Party, and that the PRG has never been more than a shadow organisation with no right of independent action? When will the Government recognise the realities of the situation in South Vietnam? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
While the DRV has not made any announcement of its recognition of the PRG, it considers the PRG to be a separate government. The DRV relationship with the PRG is regarded as special and not on a par with the position of other governments whose recognition of the PRG it nevertheless supports. The PRG has a Special Representative in Hanoi who is in charge of Southern interests. 
The city of Saigon is being administered by a Military Management Committee. Other areas of South Vietnam appear to be administered by similar military management committees or by People's Revolutionary Committees. No details of the composition of these Committees are available. 
The PRG is the executive arm of the National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam (NLF) which was established in 1960 and is a coalition of three South Vietnamese political parties, one of which is the People's Revolutionary Party (PRP) 
At least sixty-five countries have recognised the PRG. Before it assumed power on 30 April, the PRG was recognised by forty-six countries. Since then many other countries have recognised it. These include Britain, Burma, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, India, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Pakistan, Sweden and Thailand. In addition, a number of Governments claim that they recognise states not governments and therefore that the question of recognition does not apply. Included in these are France, Belgium and Switzerland, all of which have announced their intention to establish diplomatic relations with the PRG. 
The recognition of a government implies nothing more than the acceptance that the government is the government of the country. We accept that there are two legal entities in Vietnam, the one the DRV in North Vietnam and the other South Vietnam. The PRG is the only government now claiming to be the government in South Vietnam. In recognising it the Australian Government was recognising the realities in South Vietnam. The only alternatives to recognising the PRG were either to continue to recognise a government- the Government of the Republic of Vietnam- which all acknowledge went out of existence on 30 April, or to recognise a government- the Government of the DRV- which makes no claim to be the Government of South Vietnam. To have followed either of those courses would have been absurd precisely because neither would have recognised the realities of the situation in South Vietnam. 
-I take a point of order. I would like to put forward for your consideration,  Mr President,  that if this question asked by  Senator Wright  is relevant to the discussions before us today then quite clearly  Sir Frederick  Wheeler has stated his position very clearly, that according to the instructions of his Minister he is not going to answer relevant questions. If that is not so and the question is irrelevant, I suggest to you that it should be ruled out of order because of its irrelevancy. 

 -Mr President, no questions. 

 Mr Byers; Yes. 

 -Mr President, speaking to the point of order, I think  Senator Greenwood  has given the answer completely to you and to the whole Senate. If these things are relevant to the questions which  Sir Lenox  Hewitt has said he is under instructions not to answer, very clearly  Senator Greenwood  instead of representing his colleague has completely put  Senator Wright  out of court. If these questions relate to the very position that  Sir Lenox  Hewitt has made clear to you, that he is under instructions not to answer, they will not be answered. 

 - Mr President, I have received letters signed by 137 citizens of Australia petitioning me to increase the level of spending on carefully planned overseas aid and not to consider any reduction in aid. As these letters do not conform with the standing orders relating to petitions, I seek leave of the Senate to have a copy of the letter read. 
I would imagine that the answer to the question would be no, not in this week. I would expect some questions on any of those matters in the next day or so but I could not see that we could deal with them in the form of a statement before. I leave on Thursday evening. I would certainly be quite willing, however, to give any information that we have on any of them. 
-I think I have previously answered a question of this sort. Ever since, firstly, the decision of the United Nations last year to admit spokesmen for the Palestine Liberation Organisation to the United Nations and, secondly, the recognition that that organisation is regarded by most of the Arab countries  as their representative, the PLO has been admitted to various organisations. As I remember the matter- I do not have notes about it in front of me- at the International Labour Organisation Conference an amendment was proposed which would have sought to bring the PLO to admit that it believed in the existence of Israel. We voted for that amendment because it would be a great step forward if one could bring the PLO just to say that. That amendment failed and when it did fail we proceeded to vote for the substantive motion. 
-Senator Grimes might recall that in a statement I made on 3 1 July I said that the Australian Government noted with concern various reports that at the coming United Nations General Assembly meeting moves might be contemplated to expel or suspend Israel from membership of the United Nations. The Australian Government supports Israel's continuing membership of the United Nations and therefore would be strongly opposed to Israel's expulsion or suspension. Australia would accordingly oppose moves designed to exclude Israel from participating in the General Assembly or other United Nations bodies. The Australian Government is concerned that such moves could seriously limit the ability of the United Nations to play a constructive peace-keeping role in the Middle East. We believe they could also have repercussions for the future of the organisation as a whole. 
-The information I have on this is that the city of Saigon is still being administered by a military management committee. Other areas of South Vietnam appear to be administered by similar military committees or by people's revolutionary committees, as in Da Nang. No date has been set for the formal assumption of control throughout the country by the Provisional Revolutionary Government. That is the information that I have at the moment. 
If I may I will give some general information first because not only is there the question of the advancement of Portuguese Timor but there is also the very critical situation that exists there at this moment. Australia is not a party principal to the decolonisation of Portuguese Timor but it is concerned that in that process the best interests of the people of the territory should be of paramount consideration, and Australia has always acted with that viewpoint in mind. The Government's policy on this point has been stated publicly on a number of occasions and is quite well known. Recent developments in Portuguese Timor are a matter of great concern to the Government and it is studying the situation with the greatest possible care and sympathy. Two officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs have visited Portuguese Timor over the past few days and their report will form an important element in the Government's assessment of the situation. Arrangements have been made to evacuate last night and today Australian citizens in the territory who wish to leave. 
I do not believe that it would be helpful to comment further at this stage on what is obviously a delicate and difficult situation, beyond saying that it remains the Government's strong hope that the political forces in the territory can compose their differences to the extent that they can co-operate peacefully in its further decolonisation. For the immediate future there is clearly an urgent need for the Portuguese administration to reassert its control. The Australian Government is encouraged in this regard by the dialogue that Governor Pires has been able to establish with the UDT- the Timor Democratic Union- but not yet, it seems, with the leadership of the Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor- FRETILIN. Nevertheless, the Government hopes that the talks, now begun, will be carried forward when  Major Soares,  a special emissary sent by  President  Costa Gomes, arrives in Dili, it is hoped in the next day or so. The Australian Ambassador in Lisbon has urged upon the Portuguese authorities the importance Australia attaches to Portugal reasserting its control over the territory. 
In answer to  Senator Mulvihills  specific question, as honourable senators know a conference was held in Macao which was boycotted by FRETILIN but which was attended by Apodeti and the UDT. From the time I first talked at the United Nations last year to the then Foreign Minister,  Mr Soares,  and later to  Dr Santos  here, there has been a feeling amongst the Portuguese, which I think is quite sensible, of the need to keep this matter moving over a period of between four and five years. Their embryonic thoughts were not so much that there would be a plain vote by the people but that some sort of body would be formed, not a parliament but a constituent body, to give the 3 organisations that have arisen in Portuguese Timor some chance to develop, to get together, to rub the rough edges off one another and to move along to a position where they could finally decide what sort of situation they wanted- whether they wanted to be independent or to carry on as a colony of Portugal or indeed, as Apodeti wanted, to join with Indonesia. 
Those moves appear to be fractured at this stage, not only because of the situation in Portuguese Timor but also because of the very severe political manoeuvrings that are going on today in Portugal. I still think that that is the most sensible situation because, although some people in Dili are asking: 'Why do you not do as you did in Mozambique and hand over to one body', it would be a difficult job to decide which body. The situation in Mozambique was vastly different. There the FRELIMO had been fighting and working for many years, had controlled quite a lot of land and were experienced to the extent that they were able to take over. That sort of situation does not arise in Portuguese Timor where there are 3 embryonic forms of political parties. A very tense situation exists at the moment and, as I said, I think that the most effective solution is for the Portuguese to get back into control. We are not certain how much fighting is going on there. They should get that settled down and then rethink the whole situation. 
-I understand that  Mr Peacock  made that allegation. The answer is that the Soviet Ambassador has issued a statement saying that the question of Soviet financial aid to Papua New Guinea was not specifically raised in the talks that he had in Port Moresby. According to Press reports,  Sir Maori  Kiki has stated that he regarded the Ambassador's remarks at the Press conference about the possibility of some Soviet aid being made available to Papua New Guinea as just an offer and that there were no plans to discuss the matter further.  Sir Maori  said that his talks with the Ambassador had been of a courtesy nature, 'just to say hullo to each other'.  Sir Maori  is also reported as saying that his talks with the Soviet Ambassador came before and had no relationship to the Australian decision on aid to Papua New Guinea this year. 
The Australian Government would be happy to see more countries grant aid to Papua New Guinea on terms acceptable to Papua New Guinea. I have often said that myself and have tried to encourage other countries to do just that, to help in contributing to the development of Papua New Guinea. Some countries and international organisations are already providing aid, including New Zealand, Japan and the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation. It is a sorry but hardly surprising state of affairs to find  Mr Peacock  looking backwards to the bogeys of the cold war rather than looking forward to the realities of the future in the various suggestions that he has made about Russian aid to Papua New Guinea. The fact is that he still has a colonialist's view of Papua New Guinea and believes that even when independent it should still remain effectively an appendage of 
Australia. The Papua New Guineans themselves will be the best judges of where they wish their aid to come from and there is no doubt that they wish to be partners with Australia in a mature relationship in the future and not subordinates in a form of subservient relationship. 
-We have been conducting negotiations for some weeks with the 
Provisional Revolutionary Government's special representative in Hanoi on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the 2 countries. I hope that an announcement concerning the establishment of diplomatic relations will be made quite shortly. The other part of the question dealt with aid. The Australian Government does not envisage giving war reparations aid to South Vietnam. However, a substantial package of commodity aid is now in preparation for shipment to South Vietnam. Australia has indicated its willingness to resume aid on projects and will undertake discussions on other assistance as soon as possible. 
On 9 July 1975,  Senator Mulvihill  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question comparing the conditions of entry of Australian Members of Parliament into Britain, and British Members of Parliament into Australia. The senator referred specifically to his experiences at Heathrow and the treatment accorded to  Mr John  Stonehouse. 
The treatment at the points of entry into each country is in effect identical. Since 1 March 1975, it has been a requirement of the United Kingdom authorities that all passengers passing through immigration control and not being holders of United Kingdom passports complete landing or embarkation cards at the point of entry or departure. Similarly, Australia does not exempt anyone from the requirement to complete incoming and outgoing passenger cards on arrival and departure. Exemptions which Australia has granted to Members of Commonwealth Parliaments who identify themselves as such are exemptions from the need to obtain visas for travel to Australia and entry permits on arrival here. Australian Members of Parliament travelling to Britain on visits need neither entry visas nor entry permits.  Mr Stonehouse  's treatment in Australia has been in accordance with the foregoing provisions. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Gamal  El-Surani is reported by the Australian Press to have stated on several occasions during his recent visit to Australia that he felt confident that the Palestine Liberation Organisation would be allowed to open an office in Australia soon. He is also reported to have expressed confidence that such an office would be given diplomatic status. 
and (3) The question has not arisen. No request has been made to the Australian Government for its concurrence in the establishment of an office of the Palestine Liberation Organisation in Australia. 
The Australian Government acknowledges that the Palestine Liberation Organisation has been recognised by the Arab States and by a very large majority of members of the United Nations as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestine people. 
The answers to the senator's questions are as follows: 
and (2) For international development assistance purposes the following countries and territories are defined as being part of the Pacific Islands region: 
Cook Islands 
Fiji 
Gilbert and Ellice Islands 
French Polynesia 
Nauru 
New Caledonia 
New Hebrides 
Niue 
Trust Territory ofthe Pacific Islands 
Papua New Guinea 
Solomon Islands 
Tokelau Islands 
Tonga 
Wallis and Futuna 
Western Samoa 
Australia's monetary foreign aid contributions to the Pacific Islands region in the form of budgetary support, capital equipment and disaster relief are as follows: 
-He will be accredited to the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. 
-The main criterion relating to the issue overseas of an Australian passport to an Australian citizen is the absence of any legal requirement for the passport applicant to be returned to Australia. If a passport applicant who was overseas had committed an offence against Australian law and a charge had been entered against him in the Australian jurisdiction, then a restricted travel document would be issued to enable the applicant to return to 
Australia to meet his legal obligations. I might add that if  Senator Mulvihill  had any particular case in mind I would be quite willing to discuss it with him. 
-Senator Chaney yesterday asked specific questions about some of the things that naturally would be exercising people's minds. I answered one of them in a later question about Portuguese Timor. I said then that I would be anticipating questions on things such as those which he had mentioned. I could not see that it would be at all practical to make a comprehensive statement. I did not think it would be possible this week  to  bring down such a statement. I thought that with the Budget being presented the Opposition would have been more interested in that than in foreign affairs. Evidently that is not the case. Since I have been Minister for Foreign Affairs and since this Government has been in power we have carried on a system, which we inaugurated and which is something that the previous Government never did, of always tabling in the Senate a report on every major issue such as my visits to the ANZUS Council, the United Nations or any of the other conferences which I attend, or indeed most visits that I make, so it goes on record and is there for all senators, all members and the public to examine if they wish. That keeps up a running commentary and is something which the previous Government never did. Generally after an overseas tour by the Minister or the Prime Minister the previous Government would give a travelogue telling what a wonderful time the Minister had in other countries. 
I am leaving this week to attend a meeting of the non-aligned movement in Lima, then the Seventh special session of the United Nations and also the General Assembly of the United Nations. When I return a report on that trip will be made. In the meantime questions on individual things-  Senator Chaney  has a particular interest in Bougainville- could be answered if specific questions were asked. Most of the things which he mentioned are in a very fluid state at the moment, as I indicated yesterday in my reply on Portuguese Timor. I am more than willing to give any information which the Australian Government has at the time. I did not think it possible to bring down a statement. I think that our actions have been a vast improvement on the previous Government's actions. We have kept the Senate informed of what the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister do in the field of foreign affairs on each occasion on which we go overseas. 
-At about 5 a.m. on 15 August the Army took over power and installed a civilian government in Bangladesh. There was some brief resistance. It is reported that some 200 were killed. Among these were the  President,  Sheik Mujibur Rahman, most of his family and several of his relatives. The new Government and Cabinet of ten are headed by Khondakar Mushtaque Ahmed. All members of the Cabinet were in the previous Cabinet. The death of  President  Mujib who brought his country to independence in 1971 is a matter of very deep regret. We mourn his passing and deeply regret the manner of his death. Our information is that the new Government is in control of the situation in Bangladesh. In these circumstances the Australian High Commission in Dacca will be instructed that it may conduct normal business with the new Government. Other governments that have already taken such steps, which amount to recognition, include the U.S.A., Britain, Malaysia, Burma, Japan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands and some others. We have advice that no Australians are in danger, that they are quite safe. Australia's decision on aid to Bangladesh, including food aid and project and technical assistance, will continue to be made on the same basis as in the past. Australia has a deep humanitarian concern for the problems of the people of Bangladesh. 
In the communique of 24 July at the end of the visit to Manila of the Thai Prime Minister, the Philippines and Thai governments announced that they had agreed that SEATO should be phased out to take account of the new realities in the region. The Australian Government agrees with the 2 regional members of the Organisation that SEATO should be phased out. SEATO was established in 1955 when the situation in the South East Asian region was quite different from the present situation. I discussed the question of SEATO 's future with the Thai Foreign Minister,  Mr Chatichai  Choonhaven in Canberra on 12 August. We agreed that we should discuss the timing of the phasing out of the Organisation with the other members. We also agreed that, subject to the views of the other members, the meeting of the SEATO Council in New York in late September or early October would provide a convenient opportunity for the adoption of a plan for the phasing out of SEATO. We also agreed that the future of the Manila Treaty was a separate question from the phasing out of SEATO. 

 - Mr President, the Opposition has indicated that it is going to oppose the Bill in the second reading stage. Before dealing with the main question of the Bill, I should like to refer to the comments made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, who roamed far and wide and gave a very harrowing description of an aeroplane built during the war that was unsuitable. He made the point that because of that example this Purchasing Commission could foist on to buyers, on to the people who have to use the goods eventually, goods which would be unacceptable to them. Unfortunately, the honourable senator has not read the Bill because if he had looked at clause 1 3 he would know that  Sir Walter  Scott had foreseen this possibility and had moved against it, and the Bill reflects what the Scott Committee said. If  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack had given a little more time to reading the Bill and a little less time to histrionics in his speech he would have realised quite clearly that clause 13 provides that if there is a dispute between the Commission and the person who is finally to use the goods then the user of those goods has the veto. So the whole of his speech was quite irrelevant. 
As there has been an intervening recess of the Parliament might I remind you,  Mr President,  of what has happened. The Opposition asked for an adjournment of the debate on this Bill on 28 May to allow it time to examine the Bill carefully. The Opposition has had 3 months to look at the Bill and a longer period to look at the Scott report. It is obvious from the speeches of members of the Opposition that, if they used their time diligently, they have failed completely to understand the proposals of the Bill. They have conjured up a picture of a vast, cumbersome and monopolistic government purchasing agency which would bring no commercial benefit and which would exercise total government control over industry. That is absolute nonsense. If the members of the Opposition had honestly applied themselves to the Bill and to the report they would not have dared to say what they have said.  Senator Cotton  referred to purchases of approximately $13 billion being shown in the Scott report as coming within the scope of the Purchasing Commission. He suggested that given changes in prices since 1972-73 the Commission would have a buying power of $20 billion. That is quite absurd. The total value of all purchases, except for land and buildings, by Australian Government departments and authorities in 1972-73 is shown in the Scott report as approximately $1.3 billion, not $ 1 3 billion. Unfortunately  Senator Missen  never checked those figures and repeated them. 
-During the course of this - 
-I will quote the honourable senator a page. 
-The honourable member's speech was so ridiculous I think he ought to listen. On page 50 under the heading 'States and their Instrumentalities ' the report states: 
If payments Tor salaries and wages in all government sectors are deducted, an estimate or the total magnitude or government procurement would be about $5,226m, of which about $ 1,386m - 
That is about $ 1.3 billion-  is expended by the Australian Government and its various authorities . . . 
The rest is expended by the States. We have heard some pretty wild statements.  Senator Missen  said that this Bill could jeopardise the whole economic future of Australia.  Senator Webster  said that the whole commercial operations could be destroyed. What about getting back to something reasonable? 
If we were seeking to do it I would suggest - 
If we were seeking to do it I suggest we would have to have a very much stronger Bill and a very much stronger weapon than the proposed Purchasing Commission. The Bill seeks to take the various purchasing sections of the government departments and to put them into one instrumentality. It is suggested that we will use that instrumentality to destroy the whole economic future of Australia. This Bill incorporates the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy. That Committee of inquiry was headed by  Sir Walter  Scott who is one of Australia's most distinguished management consultants and has had many years experience of the problems of both industry and government. Of the 4 members of the committee no fewer than two were management consultants.  Mr Tune,  the other management consultant, is a man of extensive experience in industry as an executive, as a consultant accountant and as a management consultant. It is not realistic to claim that a committee with such a membership would recommend a form of organisation which would be unwieldy and inefficient. It would be further ridiculous to suggest that this type of committee is telling us how to ruin the economic future of Australia or socialise Australia in one fell swoop. Nor is it accurate to refer to the proposed Commission as a monopolistic agency. 
It is quite true that both the Scott Committee and the Government endorse the principle of centralised purchasing, but at the same time the Scott Committee made some quite important qualifications concerning the application of this principle. In short, the proposed Commission will not occupy a monopolistic position. As pointed out in the second reading speech, it will be taking over progressively the purchasing activities which are at present distributed across a wide range. But it would not make sense to have the Commission purchase each and every item that is required by the Government and it is quite wrong for the Opposition to imply that that will happen. 
It is claimed that we wish to create a large, expensive and inefficient bureaucracy. That is absolute nonsense. The 800 to 1000 people to whom the Opposition referred are already engaged in procurement. What is proposed is that those existing resources should be deployed to better advantage so that in the longer term economies can be effected in staffing. There is much to be gained by moving towards a much greater centralisation of government procurement. The Scott Committee set out the reasons why a central agency would be more economical, more efficient and more flexible than the present fragmented arrangements. The Opposition however has completely ignored the Scott Committee's arguments. There is nothing novel about centralised purchasing arrangements. The governments of the Netherlands and of Canada have central agencies. The Canadian agency handles a greater volume of procurement than is envisaged for the Purchasing Commission and has effected considerable economies in administrative costs. The Opposition's claim that this legislation will damage the interests of industry is completely without foundation. 
The Scott Committee's report gave great prominence to the problems currently faced by industry in meeting the Government's needs; and this Bill reflects that concern. The Purchasing Commission will be required to consult with industry concerning its proceurements operations, procedures and practices. A high level advisory committee is to be established to facilitate the consultation process and that committee will include representatives from the business community. If the Opposition were really concerned with the interests of industry it would not oppose this Bill; it would support it. The Government already has the power to use the purchasing mechanism as an instrument for various policy purposes. If it needed further powers for some particular purpose it would not be obtaining any of them under this legislation. Nor could it be argued that the creation of a strong and independent purchasing body of the kind proposed in this legislation would make it easier for the Government to use the purchasing instruments for such purposes. Indeed, the contrary would be the case. 
The Bill makes it mandatory for the Commission to publish any ministerial directions in its annual report. This represents a distinct advantage on the present situation under which there is no obligation on the Government to reveal publicly its purchasing policies and procedures. Indeed the previous Government did not do so. Although the Minister's directions must be set out in the Commission's annual report it has still been argued that there is no immediate accountability. That is not a realistic objection. If the Commission so desired it could reveal any such directions immediately- that is, it need not defer such action until its annual report. It is suggested that the Purchasing Commission will prevent or inhibit consultation between user and supplier. That is simply not the case. Nothing in this Bill will inhibit such consultation and the Bill ensures the right of the user to specify what he wants in consultation with the Commission and to have the final say on the technical suitability of goods offered. 
It has been claimed that the power in clause 1 7 is too wide, lacks immediate accountability and would be used for political objectives. The reserve power of ministerial direction is a normal provision in Bills relating to statutory authorities. Many cases could be cited and there is no evidence to suggest that such powers of direction have led to abuses in the past. It is in fact a highly desirable provision. It would be quite wrong in principle to allow a statutory body of this nature to be completely independent of the government of the day which is finally responsible to the Parliament for the Commission's activities. In a democratic society the government of the day must have a reserve power of this kind. Whether the Government decided to use purchasing as an instrument to facilitate the implementation of social policies is irrelevant to the question of the creation of a Purchasing Commission. 
It is clear that the Opposition has made no serious attempt to study the Scott report or this Bill. It has produced no substantive arguments to counter those set out in the Scott report in support of centralised purchasing arrangements. Instead of seriously discussing these arguments which favour the centralised Purchasing Commission as being more efficient, economical and flexible, the Opposition has conjured up a quite misleading picture of a monolithic body which could dictate to departments and industry alike. It has conjured up the idea that this Bill would be used to advance socialistic objectives. The fact is that this legislation would make it more difficult for the Government to pursue social objectives through procurement. What is proposed is an independent statutory body at arm's length from political processers and obliged to report fully to the Parliament and the public. There are also many other safeguards. 
It has been said that the Bill is not in the best interests of industry. The contrary is the case. This Bill provides for open and rationalised procedures and close consultation with industry and includes safeguards which have not existed previously. Finally, this more open approach of the Commission reporting to Parliament on its activities would be far more in keeping with our democratic traditions. It represents a considerable advance on past practices where, for example, some of the previous Government's purchasing policies remained confidential for nearly a decade. It is obvious that red herrings have been drawn across the track. There has been no serious analysis of the Bill. As I said on the previous occasion when the Opposition delayed consideration of this Bill, its purpose was not to examine the Bill. The Opposition uses its numbers in the Senate to delay, to defeat and to knock wherever it possibly can. It was not a genuine request for time to look at this Bill. The way in which this debate has been conducted bears out my statement on that occasion. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
The task of arranging the reproduction of the maps submitted to the Distribution Commissioners with suggestions, comments and objections was undertaken by the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commissioners in each State. 
In the case of New South Wales, it was considered that if an identification number, which coincided with the number given to the suggestion, comment or objection in Volume II of the Commissioners' Report (and with the index on the map pocket) was printed on the map, this would be sufficient identification. Unfortunately, two of the New South Wales maps do not have this identification number, due to an oversight. 
In the case of Victoria, each map was marked with a number (from 1 to 13) on the top centre front of each map when folded. On the cover of the map pocket (Appendix to Volume II) an index of the contents listed map numbers, the name of the person or party submitting the map or maps, and the submission numbers. 
In the case of New South Wales, 610 copies of each of the 1 1 maps were produced, totalling 67 10 maps. 
In the case of Victoria, 732 copies of each of the 13 maps were produced, totalling 9516 maps. 
The final accounts relating to the cost of production of the maps referred to in the answer to (b) have not yet been received. However, the estimated cost for New South Wales is about $13,450 and for Victoria about $2,250. 
The difference in map production costs as between the two States is largely attributable to the production of the New South Wales maps in full-size and colour (utilising artists' services) whereas the Victoria maps were produced in black and white and reduced in size. 
-I would invite the honourable senator's attention to the statement issued by the Prime Minister on 1 1 August 1975 following discussions with the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Michael  Somare. I will not read the whole of that statement, but the Prime Minister made the following points: It remains Australia's firm policy that Papua New Guinea come to independence as one country in accordance with the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Papua New Guinea's elected representatives. The Australian Government will give no sympathy, aid or support in any form to any group in Papua New Guinea working to undermine their country's unity. A unilateral declaration of independence, if given effect, would be an illegal act which could not itself alter in terms of the law of Papua New Guinea, the authority of the Government of Papua New Guinea over the whole of the territory of Papua New Guinea, or detract from Australia's international rights and duties under the trusteeship agreement. 
Any move for Bougainville to become independent before 16 September would require not only the assent of the Government of Papua New Guinea but also that of the Australian Government and the United Nations. The Australian Government would not assent nor, in the Prime Minister's judgment, would the United Nations. The Australian Government naturally remained interested and concerned about developments in Bougainville. The Prime Minister and  Mr Somare  had agreed to keep in the closest touch. The Prime Minister had given  Mr Somare  renewed assurances of Australian support and had every confidence that the move to independence on 16 September of a united Papua New Guinea would proceed smoothly. 

 Mr Somare has sent a message to the Secretary-General of the United Nations stating that the Government of Papua New Guinea has no intention of agreeing to the separation of any part of Papua New Guinea. The Australian Ambassador to the United Nations in New York has informed the Secretary-General that  Mr Somare  's message has the full and firm support of the Australian Government. I received in Canberra on 14 August Father John Momis and  Mr John  Teosin from Bougainville after  Mr Somare  had advised that he believed it would be desirable for me to put directly to them Australian views on the question of secession. They, of course, were the leading secessionists. I reminded Father Momis of Australian policy as set out in the Prime Minister's statement of 1 1 August. I noted that there were plans for further discussions between the Papua New Guinea Government and Bougainvillean representatives and I expressed the hope that these might provide opportunity for movement towards an accommodation between the central government and the Bougainvilleans. 
-I said yesterday that I make a practice of always tabling in the Senate a report on my overseas trips. I will certainly do so on this occasion. 
If the last phrase had been used in the first place the answer would have been, yes. I have no doubts that our policy is working very well. The report that I will table, as I always have, will include those sorts of things. I will keep in mind that  Senator Marriott  has said that he wants to relate the speech I made some 15 months ago laying down policy initiatives to how those policy initiatives fit in with what is happening. I assure him right now that they are being pursued to the best of my ability, but I will certainly keep the honourable senator's request in mind and try to meet it in my report when I return. 
-Yes. Very recently, in fact in the last couple of days, we became aware of the civil disturbances in Bangkok. It appears that they involved disaffected elements of the Thai police force and university students. The student demonstrations seem to have reflected rivalries within the students ranks themselves. The police were said to have been demanding that the Thai Government adopt a firmer approach to what the police regarded as an increase in civilian disorder, lawlessness and student agitation in Thailand. One demonstration led to the ransacking of the residence of the Thai Prime Minister,  Mr Kukrit  Pramoj, who was elsewhere at the time. 
The Australian Embassy in Bangkok has reported to us that the demonstrations, which now seem to have subsided, did not amount to anything like a threat to the Government of Thailand. There were reports that the demonstrations might have led to a state of emergency being declared. It appears that at this stage this has not been necessary. We have asked the Embassy to keep us closely in touch with anything else that might develop. 

 - Mr President, a Bill identical to the one that we are discussing has been before the Senate previously and has been rejected by the Senate. The Bill before us is a fairly simple Bill. As other speakers have indicated, it is designed to tidy up the question of the financing of elections, the expenses of candidates, and so on. It hardly deserves some of the epithets that have been aligned against it. I notice from some of the utterances that came from the Opposition that the Opposition really agrees with the legislation but it does not agree with it in this form. It adopted a similar attitude to a Bill that we had before us yesterday. This excuse is wearing a bit thin. 
There is no suggestion that the Opposition intends to move any amendments to the Bill. Honourable senators opposite are saying: 'Yes, we think that in regard to the question of financing of elections, of financing of candidates, of payment of interested people, in giving donations to parties or to candidates there ought to be something done, but not in this form'. They should remember that in 1971 their own Government suggested that there should be an abolition of the amount of money that is allowed to be spent on elections. So they themselves were thinking about amending the Commonwealth Electoral Act along these lines. We thought at that stage- we still think it- that it would be wrong to take away the limit and make it just an open slather, so that to the extent that money can control elections it would be a matter of let it go to the strongest, that might would be right. We have come down with a proposition which is in between the present situation and what the Liberal and Country parties proposed back in 1 97 1 . 
Some very strident remarks have been made about the fact that in a recent case in Sydney it was revealed that  Mr Murdoch,  a very well known Press man in Australia, the owner of newspapers not only in Australia but also overseas, had made a donation to the Australian Labor Party. Honourable senators opposite somehow seem to think that this is a terrible and shocking thing to do. The very thing about which they are speaking would be covered by this Bill. A donation such as that would be brought into the open right from the start by this Bill; it would not be revealed during the hearing of a charge in a court in New South Wales. 
It is no good saying that this is a Bill set up for the Labor Party and that already equal amounts of money flow into the coffers of the various political parties. There is nothing illegal about what I am about to say, but when one compares the structure of the Liberal Party in Australia with the structure of the Labor Party in Australia one sees it is quite obvious that countless hundreds of thousands of dollars are pouring permanently into the coffers of the Liberal Party. When one looks at any of the State structures of the Liberal Party and compares them with the State structures of the Australian Labor Party one does not have to be a genius to be able to assess that money is pouring permanently into the coffers of the Liberal Party. The number of personnelresearch officers, organisers and the like- in the Liberal Party would be many times the number of personnel in the Labor Party. Honourable senators opposite are saying: 'You are wanting to bring about equality'. There is no equality at the moment, and there is nothing illegal about that. All we are saying is that these things ought to be brought into the light of day. 
As I have said, this Bill seeks to do something which the Opposition has had a chance to consider previously. It deals with only one section of the amendments which we believe should be made to the Electoral Act. What does it do? It provides that a party contesting all seats in the House of Representatives would be allowed to spend $606,000-odd on the election. One can hardly say that this is a small amount of money. That amount of money ought to be sufficient to allow the big parties- the Liberal Party and the Labor Party- to put fairly and squarely before the electors what they term to be their propaganda, their platform for an election. A party contesting a Senate election for the States and the Territories would be allowed to spend $ 12 1,000 on the election. Again I think that that is an adequate amount of money. Parties contesting a double dissolution would be able to spend about $ 1.25m on the election. People have asked: 'How do you arrive at these figures?' We have arrived at these figures in the way that we arrive at any figure or any decision. Somebody has sat down, looked at the question and taken the best possible situation to bring about what should be a fair and equitable result to all the people. 
Also by this Bill we are creating the situation in which a person between the donor and the candidate will be responsible for collecting and spending the money. We are adopting a term that is used I think in England, that is, there is to be a parliamentary agent or an agent. Why has this been done? Why is there to be a person between the donor and the candidate? There is being placed on this person the responsibility to make a declaration of the amount of money that he has received and the amount of money that he has spent. When he takes the agency he will have an obligation to do exactly that. It is interesting to note that both Canada and the United States of America have introduced legislation along similar lines to this Bill. When one sees some of the revelations associated with what has been loosely termed the Watergate troubles one can realise that unless we intend to wait until we get into a similar situation in Australia, it is better to nip this thing in the bud. 
There was talk, particularly from  Senator Webster-  he was very trenchant in his criticismthat if somebody makes a donation to the Labor Party he will get a kick-back from the Labor Party. I suggest that the more we adopt Bills such as the one that is before us the more chance there will be of stopping that sort of thing from happening. I know of no kick-backs in the Labor Party, and I do not know of any kick-backs in the Liberal Party. That is always possible. If in the future we do not have the very great leaderships of the parties that we have today- we think that we are all nice and pure today- this could certainly happen. The Opposition has analysed the Bill and it opposes the Bill. What the Opposition ought to be doing is supporting the Bill. If it thinks that the amounts of money are not the correct amounts it should say so. In looking at the amounts of money I do not know whether they are the absolutely correct amounts of money, down to the last cent. It seems to me that they are reasonable amounts of money. 
It seems to me that the Bill limits the amount of money that can be spent on elections and at the same time provides ample opportunities for the political parties in Australia to put their case before the people. I do not understand the argument that the Bill will operate against the smaller parties or against individuals. I do not see that at all. As other speakers have said- I think quite rightly so- because this proposal has become a fairly hardy quarterly in this place, I do not think it is necessary to go into all the ramifications of the Electoral Act. This Bill deals with one section of the Electoral Act, something which is pretty easily understood- the question of making available to the public details of the amount of money that is given to candidates and to parties. It provides for the appointment of somebody between the donor and the candidate who will be responsible for declaring this to the public and to the Parliament. It will limit the amount of money spent on elections to a figure which this Government believes is a reasonable one. I am sure that if the amounts of money provided in the Bill were considered by the Opposition to be not quite reasonable it should have said so. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
South Australia 128, Victoria 80, Tasmania 15, N.S.W.49, Queensland 54, A.C.T. 1 , Western Australia 14. 
South Australia $142,276, Victoria $120,107, Tasmania $17,029, N.S.W. $145,247, Queensland $68,605, A.C.T. $1,831, Western Australia $28,142-a total of $523,237. 
The vehicles are disposed of by Public auction. 
By the Department of Services and Property. The estimated reserve price as at June 30, 1 975 is $507, 142. 
The vehicles are disposed of at the following intervals: Brisbane 4 weeks, Townsville 16 weeks, Sydney 3 weeks, Melbourne 2 weeks, Adelaide 4 weeks, Penh 4 weeks, Hobart 12 weeks, Launceston 26 weeks, Canberra 8 weeks. They are not held monthly in every place because the intervals mentioned at the various places are required to build up sufficient stocks for sale. In some instances three weeks is the required period; in some 4 weeks and so on. 
Motor vehicles are purchased under a competitive tender purchase system which results in the selection of the lowest price vehicles which conform to the technical requirements stipulated in the conditions offender presented to the Purchasing Authority. 
Whilst the Australian manufacturing content is an influencing factor in the selection of a vehicle, preference is not given to Australian motor vehicle manufacturers nor is the allocation of orders on a rotation basis. However once a vehicle is selected for a specific role it is usually standardised on for that role for about 3 years for reasons of economic maintenance. 
South Australia 32, Victoria nil, Tasmania nil, New South Wales 14, Queensland 37, A.C.T. nil, Western Australia 2 1 . 
A matter of days varying from one to three normally depending on standardisation requirements, registration etc. Delays do occur occasionally such as during an occasion in South Australia when a number of vehicles were stockpiled for some time due to the unavailability of government motor vehicle registration plates. 
-No. As a matter of fact, last year when I was having discussions with the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Mr Waldheim,  we discussed the offer that Australia had made over a year previously to supply peacekeeping forces, specifically in the Middle East.  Mr Morrison  also raised that point when he was at the United Nations this year.  Mr Whitlam  in his speech to the United Nations last year mentioned it. I understand that there have been some stories in the Press that we have altered our stand and have withdrawn our offer. That is not true. We have not rebuffed any United Nations request to supply Australian troops for the Middle East as a peacekeeping force nor have we instructed our delegation to the United Nations to discourage any Secretariat planning to take up the Australian offer to contribute to United Nations peacekeeping activities. It was mentioned in the general statement by the Prime Minister about which I and  Mr Morrison  spoke that there has been no request to Australia to provide forces for Middle East peacekeeping activites. Neither is it known whether an Australian contribution to the Middle East peacekeeping force would be acceptable to all members of the Security Council. That is one of the problems into which a Secretary-General always runs because he must balance the forces and have an agreement with those forces, wherever they might be. Also there are agreements in the various agencies as to where clerical and other staff should come from. 
I have a statement which was made by  Mr  Waldheim recently at a meeting of the Fifth Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. I will quote from this to give the Senate an idea of the sort of thing which we might expect. He said: 
The size of the disengagement zone will be substantially increased. The disengagement zone itself will be shifted eastward thus necessitating changed and extended lines of communication as well as the possible relocation of certain unit headquarters. New and different kinds of equipment may well be needed and in addition the size of the force itself, which has been substantially reduced since it was first created in 1 973, will have to be somewhat increased. 

 Mr President, there has been no change; the offer still stands. 
In relation to the question of humanitarian assistance, the International Committee of the Red Cross has launched an appeal for some 1.1 million Swiss francs, which is about $A300,000, to finance its relief operations in Timor. Australia has made a cash contribution of $A 100,000 to this appeal. We hope that this will be used on both sides of the border. There are problems on the East Timor side as well as on the Indonesian side. As honourable senators know, a Royal Australian Air Force Caribou aircraft painted with Red Cross markings began a month's assignment with the Red Cross relief operations on 4 September. As at 29 September that aircraft had flown 1 12.5 hours at a cost of some $27,000. The services of 6 medical personnel of the defence forces were provided to assist the ICRC medical teams. Radio equipment was also provided to enable the teams to maintain communications. We have been advised by the International Committee of the Red Cross that, contrary to Press and other reports, there is no acute food shortage in Portuguese Timor. The Red Cross thus believes that there is no need for large scale imports of foodstuffs at this time. 
-I thought that the last part of my answer dealt with that. I said that the Government has been advised by the Red Cross that, contrary to Press and other reports, there is no acute food shortage in Portuguese Timor. I believe that there is no need for large scale imports of foodstuffs at this time. I do not think that we could be advised by better people than the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
-There have been several arrests in Spain resulting in 5 people being executed. Six others have had their sentences commuted from death to long imprisonment. We deplore very much the carrying out of executions. In expressing our repugnance, we have expressed the hope that the Spanish Government will not carry out any such sentences again. We have expressed our concern to the Spanish Government through the Spanish Ambassador in Australia who was also informed that we wished to associate ourselves with the protests that have been made by certain European and other governments. 
I am glad that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is pleased that I did survive the coup. It was more dangerous in a strike the night before when I just missed one of those gas bomb attacks. That was more of a problem than the coup. I have been looking at the question of a policy statement. I am finding some difficulty with it. I do not want to make a statement that is too wide ranging. I have always thought that one can get into too many corners. 1 may- although it is just a thought going through my mind at the moment- relate a statement particularly to the Seventh Session and to the new trends which are emerging in the United Nations. Did the honourable senator want something of a general statement on East Timor? 
-It is a pretty fast moving situation there. I do not quite know the particular points which the honourable senator has in mind. 
For the information of honourable senators,  I  present the report of the Australian delegation to the third session of the third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea held in Geneva, Switzerland, between 17 March and 9 May 1975. 

 - Senator Greenwood has told us that he had some information about this matter this afternoon. I returned to Australia yesterday morning and was unaware of this case until I was given some papers this morning as part of my usual preparation for questions that 1 may be asked. That was the first 1 knew about it.  Senator Greenwood  said he had some information this afternoon. I wish he had given me the information then and not 5 minutes before I came into the chamber tonight.  I  would have been able to have given him a far fuller reply than 1 can give now.  I  assume he did not think to do that earlier in the day. If he had done so I would have been in a much better position. I do not think it is fair to say that the Department of Foreign Affairs has treated people of Yugoslav or Croatian birth as second class citizens. I have never seen any such indication. 
-If the honourable senator had told me that I would have obtained the replies. I certainly would not allow my Department to treat anybody as a second class citizen at any stage. It is quite unfair to say that if this had happened in South Africa we would be doing different things. There was a very well known case in South Africa involving a naturalised Australian and we did all the things in respect of it that we do in respect of other cases. 
Perhaps there is a little general information I can give about the matter that  Senator Greenwood  raised. He would remember what happened when he was Attorney-General in respect of his relationships with the Croatians. He would remember the difficulties he had, including difficulties with other Ministers in the then Government, about this very vexed question of people with dual nationality. The situation is that the acquisition of another nationality by a person with Yugoslav citizenship is not recognised under Yugoslav law unless that person formally renounces his Yugoslav citizenship and the renunciation has been formally accepted by the Yugoslav Government. That is not what we say; that is what the Yugoslav Government says. The view of the Yugoslav authorities is that it is a principle of international law, reaffirmed in article 4 of the 1930 Hague convention on certain questions relating to the conflict of nationality laws, that a State may not afford diplomatic protection to one of its nationals against a State whose nationality such a person also possesses. In such circumstances the ability of Australian official representatives to assist an Australian citizen who has Yugoslav nationality is limited if he commits an offence under Yugoslav law. 
When we came to government there was precious little the Australian Government could do to protect the interests of dual Australian Yugoslav nationals arrested and tried in Yugoslavia. With great respect to the previous Government, it had done nothing about a situation such as this. We have demonstrated far more concern for Australian citizens of Yugoslav extraction than it did. We commenced negotiations with the Yugoslav Government with the aim of securing the right of proper consular information about dual nationals detained in Yugoslavia, the right of observation by Australian officials at the trials of such people in Yugoslavia, and the right of consular access to such persons detained in Yugoslavia. Since the commencement of these negotiations the Yugoslav Government has agreed that Australian officials can attend trials of dual nationals in Yugoslavia and that consular information will be provided to Australian officials about dual nationals arrested in Yugoslavia. This is progress that we have been able to make as a Government. We are still carrying on negotiations to obtain more information and to give us greater access to information on what has been a very difficult situation- a situation in which the previous Government made no gains at all but in which we have been able to make some gains. I am not aware of the situation described by  Senator Greenwood.  As I said, had he given me the information earlier today I would have been able to provide him with more details. I shall certainly make inquiries as to the exact situation and I shall do whatever is possible to ascertain whether  Senator Greenwood's  information is correct and to what extent we can check it in Yugoslavia. I shall advise  Senator Greenwood  of the outcome of my inquiries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.6 p.m. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No, but the contents of the article have been drawn to my attention. 
Yes. I have been advised that similar approaches have been made to other companies. I understand, however, that the companies concerned, like Pelaco Shirt Company, exercised normal commercial prudence in their dealings. 
The Department of Overseas Trade and the Australian Trade Commissioner Service can assist local companies to establish the bona fides of overseas firms. A Trade Commissioner Post was opened in Lagos, Nigeria, in August 1975, to develop trade between Australia and Nigeria and to service inquiries from Australian exporters including, inter alia, the background and financial status of importers. In addition, the Australian Government, through the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, provides export payments insurance cover for export transactions generally. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation adopts screening procedures on importers in overseas countries to minimise the chances of bad debts. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Two. A third journalist is in the process of being recruited. The Department of Foreign Affairs employs other people with journalist qualifications in non-journalist positions. 
One is employed as publications editor and the other in the Department's Information Research Sub-Section. The person under recruitment will be the Department's Press Officer. All are paid at the Journalist Grade Al level ($ 1 4,8 1 5-$ 1 5,397 per annum). 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There are (6) six journalists employed in the Department of the Capital Territory. There are no journalists employed with commissions or statutory authorities under the Minister's control. 
The journalists' positions and their salaries are as follows: 
What subsidy schemes have operated for the benefit of the Australian ship building industry in the last five years. 
Are further schemes proposed to be introduced in the near future. 
What ship building orders have been placed by the Australian Government, its agents or authorities, including the Royal Australian Navy, with (a) Australian shipyards and (b) foreign shipyards, in each of the years 1972 to 1975, inclusive. 
With respect of each order placed overseas, why was this done. 
-I am afraid that  Senator Greenwood  always blunts his case when he tries to bring political considerations into these matters and makes all sorts of quite wild allegations against the Government, saying that I and the Department always accept rebuffs from communist countries. That makes it very clear that  Senator Greenwood  has no regard whatever for the people who are in gaol. When he raised this matter last night he gave me 5 minutes notice, but he had the information in the afternoon. What would anybody do who had that information and was really concerned about somebody who is alleged to be in gaol? He would have given me the information- something he still has not done. 
The first part of what  Senator Greenwood  said about  Mr Whitlock  is true. He has been arrested. I have written letters and done everything possible to assist. We are keeping up a dialogue with the Provisional Revolutionary Government to try to find out whether he is alive and to get him out. Extensive representations have been made to the Provisional Revolutionary Government on  Mr Whitlock  's behalf, including a letter, about which  Senator Greenwood  knows, that I wrote to the Foreign Minister. We have been assured by the PRG special representative in Hanoi that  Mr Whitlock  is in good health but we do not yet have any clear indication of when he will be released. We have several times expressed our concern to the PRG authorities at  Mr Whitlock  's continued detention and we will be very disappointed if he is not released in the very near future. We have also talked about the resumption of diplomatic channels in the south, which we hope will help. At the same time, we have mentioned  Mr Whitlock  continually. It is quite untrue to say that we have not done everything possible regarding  Mr Whitlock,  or anybody else who is detained in any other part of the world; whether in communist countries or not. That is in marked contrast to the way in which  Senator Greenwood  handled some of these cases when he was a Minister. 
The reason I have not made public protests about the matter is that I am concerned for  Mr Whitlock.  I am not concerned about making political points, as  Senator Greenwood  is. 
-I attended the SouthEast Asia Treaty Organisation Council meeting in New York on 24 September. The meeting addressed itself to the situation in the region and concluded that the time had come to phase out South-East Asia Treaty Organisation, which is no longer appropriate to the new realities in the region. It was agreed that the Organisation should be phased out in an orderly and systematic manner. The Council recognised that many of the economic and social projects and activities conducted or sponsored by South-East Asia Treaty Organisation were of continuing value. It will take some time to examine them and it is necessary to arrange for them to be continued under other auspices. The public initiative for the phasing out of South-East Asia Treaty Organisation came from its 2 regional members- the Philippines and Thailand. The Senate will recall that in 1973 the Organisation was modified to reduce its military orientation. We do not believe that Australia's security will be adversely affected by the decision to phase out South-East Asia Treaty Organisation. 
-Since I first became interested in aid nearly a quarter of a century ago I have heard of corruption, that tractors were' never delivered, and that sort of thing. I remember that many years ago the accusation was made that in India a lot of Australian tractors had been left rotting in the fields. The Indian Embassy in Australia issued a statement which showed that one tractor had been neglected in the field. We always hear this sort of thing. I have said publicly- I think  Senator Davidson  has been there when I have said it- that I think Australian aid during all those years has been run very well. Somewhere along the line there is criticism that it might have been done a little better, but I do not think there has been a lot of corruption and I do not think there is corruption now. 
I was informed that there was some comment about this matter in this morning's  AM  broadcast. I have some notes to answer the question because I did not hear the broadcast myself. With project aid Australian contributions are mainly in the form of technical advisers and equipment. With major projects, Australian technical advisers are associated with the projects and ensure that the equipment and materials are used in accordance with the plan of operations agreed with the recipient government. On smaller projects where Australian advisers are not involved full time, the official Australian representative in the country concerned takes a continuing interest in the use and effectiveness of the equipment and materials involved. Food aid is either channelled into the government distribution system of the recipient country or used in specific feeding programs for needy groups. When going into the government system the food gift may be used to lower the overall retail price and/or the proceeds from the sale of the food may be added to the government's development budget and be earmarked for specific projects. When it is used for a specific feeding program a formal presentation is normally made and the attendant publicity assists in ensuring that the community is aware of the gift. A lot is said about stealing, as  Senator Davidson  would know. A few years ago we put in a telecommunication system in Indonesia. It would have been very hard for one of the persons who went up there as an adviser or expert to steal one of the large dishes that were installed there. I think there is a lot of loose talk about this matter. If people are genuine about this matter I think that they should bring to our attention any specific case of which they have knowledge. Of course, we would take action if it were specifically proved. 
-As I think  Senator Sim  would remember, we made appeals prior to the takeovers in both Cambodia and South Vietnam. We have consistently made appeals. Why do honourable senators opposite keep bringing this up when there is no evidence to suggest that it is happening? We have deplored any gaolings, any beatings or any killings without proper trials.  Senator Sim  and the people who make these sorts of criticisms should look right across the spectrum. They will find that this sort of treatment is not confined to left wing governments. It is just as brutally carried out by right wing governments. 
-I am glad that the honourable senator is not arguing it. I am glad that he concedes that point. We have talked about this matter a lot in this place. We have consistently protested. We have consistently gone as far as we can where we think we will have an effect and not where we think we will get a whiplash back and achieve the opposite result. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
27 
The Department produces a range of publications to assist exporters and potential exporters. These include two regular periodicals and, in 1974-75, 26 ad hoc publications. They are distributed in Australia and overseas. 
The Department employs the following journalists: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave for the second reading speech to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  1 ask the Senate to allow me to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I am not aware of how many people of either Australian or dual nationality are imprisoned in Yugoslavia and whether charges have related to their membership of soccer clubs. I shall find out the figures and let  Senator Greenwood  know. I shall also check on the second point of  Senator Greenwood's  question as to what negotiations we have had, what protests have been made and what efforts have been made to see these people. 
Yesterday afternoon a group of some 50 people, many of them students, occupied the ground floor of the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra. They were protesting against alleged actions of the Indonesian armed forces which, according to one Press report, clashed with Fretilin forces inside Portuguese Timor. The demonstrators left the Indonesian Embassy after 2 hours. The demonstration was peaceful. Officers of the Australian Capital Territory section of the Australia Police were in attendance throughout. The Government has no information to confirm the Press report that there have been clashes between Indonesian and Fretilin forces inside Portuguese Timor. The Government is aware of course that tension has been building up in the border areas. Clashes between rival Timorese factions inside Portuguese Timor have spilled over into Indonesian Timor several times since 24 September. A number of mortar rounds were fired upon the Indonesian village of Motaain on 24 September. Subsequently Indonesia announced that it was reinforcing its forces on the Indonesian side of the border. 
The problem in the border areas is complicated by the large scale refugee problem which has arisen. The Government understands that some 40 000 people from Portuguese Timor have fled across the border to take refuge in Indonesian Timor. These figures have been confirmed by the International Committee of the Red Cross which also reports that a high proportion of the refugees are women and children. 
The Goverment regrets the deterioration of the situation in the border areas. Its consistent view has been that the solution to the problem of Portuguese Timor should be sought through peaceful means and that restraints should be exercised by all parties concerned. 
We remain committed to negotiation with Papua New Guinea on the distribution of resources and the division of jurisdiction in the Torres Strait. In so doing, we seek to accommodate the interests of all the parties affected- Papua New Guinea, Queensland, Australia and, of course, the Torres Strait Islanders themselves. On 2 April 1974 the Premier of Queensland proposed an international marine park for the Torres Strait area which would protect the environment and control commercial activities. Discussions between Australian and Queensland officials are proceeding on an environmentally protected zone along these lines in the hope of producing agreement on a special regime for the Strait. 
On 23 September the Queensland Premier referred to the amicable discussions between Queensland and Australian officials. Now that Papua New Guinea has become independent it will be for Papua New Guinea and Australia to negotiate a treaty embodying the new regime. The Queensland Premier has endorsed such an approach. On the Papua New Guinea side, the Prime Minister of that country, in his Press conference of 16 September, expressed his confidence that the Queensland Government and the Federal Government would come to some common agreement with Papua New Guinea. The Australian Government is keen to reach agreement with Papua New Guinea and has every expectation of progress towards the resolution of this issue as soon as the constitutional problems are overcome. 
I have some information on the question that  Senator Greenwood  asked me yesterday about  Mr Nazor.  The Australian Embassy in Belgrade has been making approaches to the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs in Yugoslavia about the arrest of  Mr Marko  Nazor since 18 June. Information about the arrest of  Mr Nazor  was originally given to the Embassy by his wife.  Senator Greenwood  's claims that  Mr Nazor  is under a death sentence and that  Mrs Nazor  has been imprisoned are incorrect. The most recent advice from the Australian Embassy in Belgrade is that the Yugoslavian authorities have informed the Embassy that: (a) Investigation procedures against  Mr Nazor  were completed on 29 September and a charge had not been brought; (b) the trial has not yet begun; it will probably be public and, if so, there would be no objection to attendance by Australian consular officials; and (c)  Mrs Nazor  had not been accused of any offence. 
The Embassy stressed the need for full information on the nature of the charges and reemphasised its strong desire to attend the trial. The Embassy also made strong representations for access to  Mr Nazor.  The Australian Embassy will continue to pursue all avenues available to it to assist  Mr and Mrs Nazor. 
There are one or two other points I would like to make. One is that this is not merely a problem between Australia and Yugoslavia. It is Yugoslavia's policy and therefore it applies to all countries. Its policy makes it just that more difficult to make any breakthrough in this regard. The other point I regretfully make is that from the way in which  Senator Greenwood  handles these problems it is fairly obvious, I think, that he is more interested in exacerbating a very difficult problem between 2 countries rather than in the life and liberty of the individuals concerned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Because of the nature of these Bills and because we are getting fairly familiar with them, I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
-On 27 August 1975,  Senator Carrick  asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Does the Commonwealth Government assert that the Portuguese Government has the capacity to do what the Commonwealth Government said yesterday it must do; that is, maintain a peace-keeping force, and a long term one. in East Timor. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government believes that the direct responsibility for restoring and maintaining peace in Portuguese Timor rests with the Portuguese Government. In accordance with this view, it has sought to encourage Portuguese mediation efforts and, for example, has facilitated with practical help the mission of the Portuguese special envoy,  Dr Almeida  Santos, who has been attempting to arrange discussions with the contending parties in Portuguese Timor on a cease-fire and political settlement in the territory. 
It is true that Portugal has indicated that it has lost control of the situation in Portuguese Timor: on 27 August the Governor of Portuguese Timor withdrew from the capital of the territory, Dili, to the off-shore island of Atauro. It is the sovereign decision of Portugal whether it should return a peace-keeping force to Portuguese Timor to re-establish order there. But there can be no doubt that Portugal has the capacity to do so. Thus in the last few weeks Portugal has been able to find additional forces to deploy in Angola and thus attempt to reassert its control in that territory. It should be equally possible for Portugal to reinforce its Portuguese Timor garrison. 
The view of the Australian Government remains that, as the sovereign power, the responsibility to retrieve the situation in Portuguese Timor rests with Portugal. Australia owes no duty to Portugal to exercise a delegated authority in this regard. Australia, were she to attempt to do so, would run grave risks of taking sides in the internal dispute within Portuguese Timor. 
-On 27 August 1975,  Senator Sim  asked the Minister representing the 
Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Last week I directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs several questions concerning the status of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, and I asked to which government the Australian Ambassador is to be accredited. The Minister advised that the Australian Ambassador is to be accredited to the Provisional Revolutionary Government. I now ask: Is the Minister aware of a reported statement by the Foreign Minister of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam and of North Vietnam made in Lima, where I understand the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs is at present, stating 'the unification of Vietnam is now accomplished and an official announcement is now only a matter of procedure?' In view of this statement, is it still the Government's intention to accredit an Australian Ambassador to a non-existent government of a non-existent state? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government is aware of the report referred to, but it is unable to confirm whether it is an accurate account of any statements made in Lima by DRV and PRG representatives. 
The eventual reunification of North and South Vietnam is a stated policy objective of both governments. This has not yet occurred and in the interim the two governments continue to function separately. The existence of two governments is recognised by at least 75 countries. The fact of their separate functioning has general acceptance as indicated by the participation of the DRV and PRG as full and separate members of both the WHO and WMO. 
It is the Australian Government 's intention to accredit its Ambassador to South Vietnam to the PRG as the sole government of the country. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a review of activities to 30 June 1975 of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report for the Department of the Media for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
-No, I have not had anything put before me. I am the substitute for the substitute today. I shall make inquiries from the Minister for the Media and let  Senator Young  have a reply as soon as possible. 
-Varying figures have been given on the number of Timorese who have fled or moved across into the Indonesian part of the island, but we accept the figure of 40 000 because it has been confirmed to us by independent sources. So I think  Senator Carrick  is right in assuming that it is 40 000. 
-I said 40 000. Some have said 50 000 and some have got the figure down to 10 000; but our figure is one that we have obtained from independent sources. We believe that there are about 40 000. It is a very high percentage. I am not quite sure whether it is the greatest mass movement in modern history. It is certainly a big one; it is certainly a serious one and it is one that is still bedevilling the unfortunate situation in Timor. 
-I assume that it is fear of the war that has been raging, starting off with the actions of the UDT in Portuguese East Timor. I do not know, but I would assume that it is the normal movement away that one gets in times of such disturbances within a country. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Inquiry into Schools of High Migrant Density. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
On 3 September 1975,  Senator Wright  asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, putting it in the context of Australia's support for the admission of the PLO to UNESCO and the ILO: 
Will the Minister make a special announcement that this Government will direct attention to the disintegration of the United Nations and instead of adopting an attitude favouring the admission of terrorist organisations to that body, so promoting it as a forum for guerilla warfare, restore it to the function and proper province of peace? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I do not share the view that the United Nations is disintegrating or that it is playing no part in the search for world peace. Its present role in the Middle East dispute is obviously an important contribution in this respect. The honourable senator will be aware that on 22 November 1974 the 29th U.N. General Assembly adopted Resolution 3237 by a vote of 95 to 17 with 19 countries (including Australia) abstaining; and that this Resolution gave the PLO the right to participate as an observer in the sessions and work of the General Assembly, all conferences convened under its auspices and all international conferences convened under the auspices of the United Nations. Although Australia abstained, we now have to take account of the decision embodied in this resolution, which was adopted by a large majority of the General Assembly. 
Accordingly, Australia has supported the participation of the PLO as an observer (not as a member) at a number of subsequent United Nations conferences, including the 60th Session of the International Labour Conference in June and the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) Session held in Geneva in April-May. At the 97th Session of the UNESCO Executive Board held in May 1975, Australia voted in support of draft resolutions which invited the PLO as well as a number of African Liberation Movements to attend meetings concerned with various UNESCO programs as observers. The PLO was invited in an observer capacity, consistent with Resolution 3237 (XXIX). More recently, participation by the PLO in an observer capacity at the 59th Session of the Economic and Social Council which opened at the end of July was accepted by consensus of all the members of the Council. 
Australia's acceptance of observer status for the PLO at the United Nations and Specialised Agencies does not imply endorsement of its tactics. Australia acknowledges the legitimate rights of the Palestinians, but our support for the right of Israel to exist within secure and recognised boundaries has also been repeatedly reaffirmed by the Australian Government. 
The admission of the PLO as an observer at United Nations meetings has not, in the view of the Australian Government, done anything which might transform the United Nations into a forum for guerilla warfare. 
On 2 September,  Senator Carrick  asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs what requests, if any, whether for manpower, medical supplies or other assistance, has the Portuguese envoy,  Dr Santos,  made to the Commonwealth Government with respect to the current crisis in East Timor? Secondly, what offers of assistance, if any, has the Commonwealth Government made to the Portuguese Government on this matter? 

 Senator Carrick also asked whether the Government had made any approach to the United Nations. 
The answer to the honourable, senator's question is as follows: 
On 23 August the Portuguese Government requested Australian and Indonesian assistance in the humanitarian effort directed toward Portuguese Timor. Responding to this request, the Australian Government assisted in the extensive air and sea evacuation operations from Portuguese Timor and has made available the services of an RAAF aircraft to ICRC representatives who have visited Portuguese Timor several times since 2 September. An amount of $100,000 is to be given to the International Committee of the Red Cross to assist the victims of the fighting. 
The Government provided an RAAF aircraft to carry  Dr Santos  and his party from Sydney to Darwin, between Darwin and Atauro Island and from Darwin to Jakarta, and it has also made available communications facilities to enable the Portuguese administration on Atauro Island to keep in touch with Darwin and Macao. No further requests for assistance were conveyed by  Dr Santos. 
The Portuguese response to Indonesion offers of assistance has not been very forthcoming. Only very limited use has been made of Indonesian ships made available for evacuation purposes. The Indonesian Government has, however, assisted with the reception of some thousands of persons who have crossed into Indonesian Timor since the fighting between UDT and Fretilin began. 
The Australian Government is closely bound to the proposition that the United Nations has an important role to play in difficult international situations. It accordingly welcomed the discussions which  Dr Santos  had with the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations and with members of the Bureau of the Committee of Twenty-Four on the question of Portuguese Timor when  Dr Santos  visited New York between 2 1 and 2 S August. 
Between 23 and 27 August four communications from the Portuguese Government were submitted for circulation as United Nations documents: On 23 August the Portuguese Foreign Minister alerted the Secretary-General to the gravity of the situation and referred to the Portuguese appeal to Australia and Indonesia for 'support and assistance in the humanitarian tasks'; on 25 August the Foreign Minister referred especially to a message from the Governor of Portuguese Timor asking for 'immediate intervention of international forces' to assist with evacuation operations; on 25 August the Portuguese Charge d 'Affaires in New York advised the Secretary-General that the Portuguese Government had appealed to the governments of Indonesia and Australia to adopt 'measures permitting the resumption of humanitarian operations to evacuate refugees'; and on 27 August the Charge d 'Affaires advised the Secretary-General that the Portuguese authorities had been obliged to withdraw military doctors from Dili because Fretilin had 'refused to consider the hospital a neutral zone '. 
As of this moment, the Portuguese Government, which is the Government recognised internationally as having formal responsibility for Portuguese Timor, has not put forward any formal proposal for United Nations mediation in Portuguese Timor. It goes without saying that, if a practical proposal emerged for United Nations participation in a solution of the problem of Portuguese Timor, Australia would wish to support it. 
I suggest to  Senator Withers  that we have a cognate second reading debate on the Electoral Re-distribution Bills and that we vote separately on each of the Bills at the end of the second reading debate. 
I present for the information of honourable senators the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on aluminium and articles thereof. 
I think the easiest way to answer the question is to answer the last part first and say yes, I will try to obtain the information. 
-I shall refer  Senator Davidson's  suggestion to the Department and obtain some up to date information for him. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer which the Prime Minister provided to a similar question, No. 885 which appeared in  Hansard  of 2 October on page 930. 
United Nations Conference on Women 
-Senator Greenwood repeats an untruth when he says that  Mr Nazor  is being held without trial. I informed the honourable senator last week, he may recall, in relation to  Mr Nazor  that we have been informed that inquiries have been completed and that a charge is pending against him. 
Let me remind  Senator Greenwood  what I told him. The honourable senator has just said that  Mr Nazor  was held without trial. 
-The fact is, as I told the honourable senator last week, that the Yugoslavian authorities have made inquiries and are about to charge  Mr Nazor.  The honourable senator also alleged that  Mrs Nazor  had been imprisoned for 6 years. I think that is what he said. No charges have been made against  Mrs Nazor.  In relation to the question about people being held in Yugoslav jails without trial and some being charged with being members of soccer clubs in Australia, I had quite a lengthy reply from the Department this morning. I sent it back to clarify in my own mind one or two matters. I expect that I will have that answer for the honourable senator tomorrow. The only reason he did not get it today is that I wanted to be clear on one or two facts. 
On the question of  Mr Whitlock,  we have been making continuous inquiries. I have written twice about the matter. I have had continuous requests made about it. Our information is that he is still being held and that he is in good health. That is what the Vietnamese have told us. We are insisting upon every opportunity being taken to get  Mr Whitlock  back. 
It just strikes me that these sorts of inquiries and false allegations about these people do not help the people themselves. They do, of course, give the people who want to exacerbate troubles between the 2 governments an opportunity to do so. Yes, we do consider these matters to be very important and, quite contrary to what the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did, we have made continuous attempts not only to try to get consular access to the people involved but also to get them released or to see that any charges against them are brought in a proper manner and that we know what is going on. We do that in all consular cases. We try to make arrangements with every country in the world, irrespective of whether the consular case be a small one or a large one, to be informed, and then we try to keep in touch with the people concerned and see what we can do for them. 
It does not help the situation because, quite obviously,  Senator Greenwood  is trying to exacerbate the situation. When the situation is that the people concerned are in the gaols of other countries- I am not sure whether  Mr Whitlock  is in a gaol; I think he is in some sort of confinement- and when one is trying to handle the matter at a diplomatic level it is very obvious that it does not help the situation to make false allegations, as  Senator Greenwood  did last week. 
I do not know the answer to the honourable senator's question. I did not see the article in the  Australian Financial Review,  but I will find out the position from the Department of the Media and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
-I think I might take that question on notice. There is quite a circumnavigation of the whole situation. At the time I gave  Senator Sim  the answer, that was the information we had. I shall check up on just how much integration has gone on and on what the situation is in Saigon. 
To those people who have been listening to the debate this afternoon, the delay in the passage of these Bills must seem strange. I do not know why such a delay has occurred. As  Senator Withers  pointed out, it is the third time that we have had these Bills before us.  Senator Sheil  has been dealing with Bills that were before us some time ago and he did not deal with what is contained in the Bills before us tonight. These Bills are designed to implement the electoral divisions in the States of South Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales, having the names and boundaries approved by the House of Representatives when initially dealt with by that House in the form of motions in May this year. 
Under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act the reports by the respective Distribution Commissioners were laid before both Houses of Parliament during April/May 1975. However, as indicated in my second reading speeches, the motions for the approval of redistributions proposed in those reports, although passed by the House of Representatives, were negated by this chamber. These redistributions were carried out on the basis of the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, as amended by the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973. Honourable senators will be aware that that Bill was passed by the Joint Sitting of the Parliament on 6 August 1974. The Bill amended sections 19 and 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the amendments had the effect of reducing the permissible variation from the quota, specified in section 19, from one-fifth and one-tenth, varying the factors to which the Distribution Commissioners are required to give due consideration, and varying section 25 to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever in one quarter of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by onetenth in lieu of one-fifth. 
The essential purpose of that legislation and the proposed legislation before this chamber, is to provide for practical equality of representation, thus ensuring that the will of the majority is reflected in the outcome of the elections for the House of Representatives. As the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in the other place pointed out on 1 October, even before the boundaries were announced or had been decided, the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
The Opposition will oppose them to a man . . . 
So it is no wonder that  Senator Webster,  who is a member of the National Country Party of 
Australia, this afternoon opposed these Bills irrespective of what is contained in them. In other words, the Leader of the National Country Party was not even prepared to look at the boundaries in a constructive way. I have heard of criticism as to why the proposals were not referred back to the Commissioners. What would be the point of the Minister referring them back when the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  has indicated that under no circumstances would they be accepted. I should also like to refer to an article which appeared in the  Age  on Thursday, 22 May, under the heading: 'Liberals opt for electoral folly'. I think it is very apt to consider these words in view of the filibustering that has taken place this afternoon. The article states: 
In determining their attitude to the proposed redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries, members of the Parliamentary liberal Party had the option of adopting 2 approaches. They could have asked themselves: Is this redistribution fair and equitable and in accordance with democratic principle? To which the honest answer would have been- Yes! Or they could have pondered: Does this redistribution serve our long-term political interests? In which case the wise answer would also have been Yes! The Liberals made a decision which was neither honest nor wise: They decided to oppose the redistribution. In doing so, they opted for a marginal short-term political advantage and for mockery of electoral justice. The main beneficiary of this aberration will be neither the Liberal Party nor the people of Australia, but the National Country Party. 

 Senator Withers commented about a redistribution not being effected in Western Australia in conjunction with the redistributions in the other States. There is nothing sinister about the fact that there is no concurrent redistribution in Western Australia. The simple answer is that there was a redistribution in that State which was given effect to in April 1974. The current redistribution of the other States was initiated in September 1974- a matter of only months after the Western Australian redistribution. I can imagine that the criticism of  Senator Withers  and his Party, if only a few months later we had another distribution would have been very much greater. 

 Senator Withers also mentioned that the results of past elections have generally led to the party which recorded 50 per cent of the vote winning government. The exception he mentioned was in 1954. For the benefit of honourable senators I mention that on that occasion the Aus.tralian Labor Party gained 50. 1 per cent of the votes, yet did not gain government. The honourable senator did not mention what happened in 1961 or, for that matter, in 1969. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party gained 46.76 per cent of the votes and won 62 seats in the House of Representatives. The Liberal-Country parties also won 62 seats at that election, yet their total vote was only 40.91 per cent. The difference there was, of course, that we held the seat for the Northern Territory which did not have a voting right in the Parliament at that time. We introduced the voting right later on. The results of 1 969 were interesting for those who wished to argue that the previous ground rules for conducting redistributions were fair and equitable. In that year the Australian Labor Party won 59 seats with 46.95 per cent of the votes. However, the Liberal-Country parties were able to secure 66 seats with 44.3 per cent of the votes. Is it any wonder that they opposed the amendments to the redistribution provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which the Government brought down and which were passed at the Joint Sitting following the double dissolution elections in 1974. 
I should also like to comment briefly on the references made to a challenge to the redistribution provisions in the High Court of Australia. Surely it must be taken that the legislation which was enacted following the Joint Sitting of the Parliament which amended the redistribution provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act ceases to be law only when, and if, it is disallowed by the High Court. Regardless of what honourable senators on either side of this chamber might think will be the outcome of the challenge, the fact is that the Government is proceeding in accordance with the law as it presently stands, and it is not a valid argument to use the challenge as a means of rejecting the legislation now before the chamber. 
Another argument advanced by  Senator Withers  was that there is no requirement for a redistribution in Tasmania. I would like to ask: What is wrong with having a concurrent redistribution in that State so that any adjustments to take cognisance of shifts in population can be made? It is difficult to see how such an argument could be used against the passing of these Bills, particularly those concerned with States other than Tasmania. 
In summing up, I think it can be fairly said that although there has been a great deal of debate no valid or logical argument which would justify the rejection of any of these 5 electoral redistribution Bills has been advanced. It is evident that the Opposition has sought to justify its attitude by all sorts of irrelevant arguments instead of coming to the crux of the matter. The truth is that it opposes any redistribution based on the existing provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The fact that the redistribution proposals are eminently fair cannot be denied or has not been denied by any reasoned argument. 
Instead, we have heard drawn out repetition, most of which has little or no bearing on the real issues involved in these Bills. 
The fact is that the National Country Party, which is the tail wagging the dog in the coalition, has said, as  Mr Anthony  said before he even examined what the redistribution proposals were: 'We are going to vote against them to a man'. As  Senator Withers  pointed out earlier today, this is the third occasion on which these proposals have been examined by this chamber. No fair and reasoned argument has been advanced for their rejection. The proposals have not been analysed. The fact is that because the Opposition coalition has won elections in the past by means of gerrymanders, as I have pointed out, the present situation suits it politically and in no way does it intend to treat the present proposals fairly. As the article in the  Age  says, the Opposition is being very foolish. It is being electorally unfair. It is not treating this legislation as electoral Bills should be treated. The fortunes of politics will vary from one side to the other. The Opposition is doing a great disservice to the Australian people. It is doing a great disservice in relation to what ought to be a fair electoral distribution in Australia. 

 Senator Withers and I are becoming fairly practised in talking about these Bills. It is the third occasion at least on which I can remember their being before the chamber. I have said many times when speaking to these Bills that we often condemn corruption, as we should do. We take people to court and prosecute them when we find that they are engaged in corrupt practices, but it is corruption in high places when we find a gerrymandered electoral system in any country in the world. That is corruption by governments, and it is a corruption being practised on this occasion by the Opposition. It is nothing more, nothing less. We cannot allow to continue corruption in relation to the distribution of electorates which has been practised in the past, both under State and Federal laws. We said during the 1 972 election campaign, and we repeated it during the subsequent election campaign, that we would try to bring electoral fairness into the Australian system. That is what we are trying to do tonight by means of these Bills. Although it has stonewalled the debate this afternoon, the Opposition has not made an analysis of the redistribution proposals. The Liberal Party is going along with what  Mr Anthony  has said. To its final detriment, the Liberal Party is not prepared to face up honestly to these proposals. It does not want to see a fair and equitable distribution of electoral seats in Australia. Therefore it is prepared to go on with the corruption that it has practised and which State governments have practised in Australia throughout the years. 
I repeat that Opposition members made up their minds before these Bills were ever presented that in spite of what the electorate of Australia said, in spite of the fact that under the law of this country we decided at a Joint Sitting of the Parliament what should be done, whatever might happen they were not going to allow a redistribution to take place. I say that they stand condemned in that regard. They are not prepared to analyse the Bills before them. They want to continue with the corrupt practices which have been carried on in Australia for too long. I have nothing more to say except to suggest that the question be put to the vote, knowing full well that the vote will be a biased one. The Opposition has made no analysis of the Bills and it wants to continue with its old corrupt ways. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-The Government is aware that tension in the border areas is high and regrets the deterioration of the situation there. The Indonesian Government has denied yesterday's reports alleging involvement by its forces in action in East Timor. It is possible that they refer to the recapture by UDT forces of Batugade a day or two ago. The town, which is very close to the Indonesian border, has been fought over by Fretilin and UDT several times over the past few weeks. There has therefore been a good deal of military action around it. The reports of Indonesian involvement, of course, come from Fretilin sources. 
The Australian Government is unable to confirm or deny reports that any Indonesian forces might have been engaged in the fighting. Nor is the Government able to comment on Press reports that UDT and Apodeti forces in the border areas have been provided with arms and other supplies. What the Government can confirm is that Indonesia has a large scale refugee problem on her hands, with some 40 000 people having fled across the border into Indonesia. These figures have been confirmed by the International Committee of the Red Cross which also reports that a high proportion of the refugees are women and children. 
These developments bear out the Government's long and firmly held view that the best means of resolving the problems posed by the decolonisation of Timor is by talks between the political parties in the colony. I would urge all parties to put behind them the acrimony that has developed over the past few months and to join the Government of Portugal in talks aimed at reaching a solution that would permit the restoration of peace and order and a revival of the process of peaceful decolonisation. The Government has stated previously, and I repeat, that this process should go forward free of external interference. 
-The question of the sovereignty over territory around the port of Trieste has been a cause of dispute between Italy and Yugoslavia, as most people know, for more than 30 years. The 1947 Peace Treaty provided for a free territory of Trieste and denned the border between Yugoslavia and Italy. Neither side ever accepted this arrangement. Until 1954 the sector to the west of Trieste remained under provisional Anglo-American administration, while the sector in the east was under Yugoslav military administration. The London Memorandum of 1954 provided for the zone under Anglo-American administration to pass to Italian civil administration, and the Yugoslav zone to Yugoslav civil administration. This situation existed until the present time, with continual wrangles between Italy and Yugoslavia over the demarcation line. 
In statements to the Italian Senate and Chamber of Deputies on 1 October of this year Prime Minister Moro and Foreign Minister Rumor confirmed that agreement had been reached with Yugoslavia on the Trieste question. The Italian Foreign Minister has stated that the agreements would define the border, regularise the juridical status of citizens in the area, protect the rights of families who wished to move from one area to another, guarantee the rights of ethnic minorities in the border areas, assure Trieste of possibilities for development and encourage co-operation in a wide range of sectors between Yugoslavia and Italy. The Yugoslav Foreign Minister,  Mr Milos  Minich, presented the agreements to the Yugoslav Parliament on 1 October, and the Parliament has accepted them. The Italian Parliament is expected to accept the agreements shortly. The agreement will formalise provisions of the London Agreement which have been in force since 1954. Italy will therefore have sovereignty over Zone A west of the port and Yugoslavia over Zone B east of the port. The maritime border in the Gulf of Trieste will be redrawn so that Italy has adequate channels for passage of large ships and is guaranteed passage through Italian territorial waters, thus terminating the present necessity of crossing exclusively Yugoslav territorial waters. The agreement confirms the Italian status of Trieste and the town of Gorizia. The Australian Government welcomes the agreements on Trieste. They will remove a possible source of irritation between 2 states with which Australia has friendly relations. 
-The Republic of Korea was excluded from having any standing at all with the non-aligned countries. I think it is correct to say that the other countries that the honourable senator has mentioned were included. The Philippines was finally received. I cannot tell the honourable senator on what basis countries were included. It was done in that group's own committee and guests were not taken into it. It was done in a committee set-up; I suppose one might term it a credentials committee or something like that. That is where the Republic of Korea was kept out. 
I gave some general information on this matter to  Senator Gietzelt  earlier. Now  Senator Bonner  asks that we send a specific team to examine what the situation is. I do not think there is any doubt that there are disturbances on the borders, as I have mentioned already. As to sending up a team, I do not quite know whether the honourable senator means it should be a Government team or whether it should include outsiders. As I said in answer to a question asked by  Senator Bonner  recently on this matter, if we found, as a result of the very close day to day studies that we carry out on Portuguese Timor and also on relations with Indonesia and Portugal, that it was a desirable thing to do we would certainly give it consideration. 
-This question deals with a subject which is much nearer to home than those I generally answer.  Mr Daly  has given me some information which, I see, he gave in answer to another question. He says that contrary to the various reports appearing in the Press, photographs of the Prime Minister were placed in the Australian Parliamentary Offices at the direction of  Mr Daly  and without reference to the Prime Minister. The cost involved was $347. 
-I have a reply which I promised  Senator Greenwood  yesterday to a question which he asked on 2 October. He asked about the matter again yesterday. I explained to him that although I had the information from the Department I was seeking clarification on a couple of points. The question related to Australians imprisoned in Yugoslavia. As far as my Department is aware, over the last 2 years- that is, since October 1973- a total of 13 Australian citizens, of whom 10 were dual nationals, have been in Yugoslav prisons. Seven of the 10 dual nationals were charged with offences under articles of the Yugoslav Criminal Code relating to political activities. There are 5 dual nationals currently in prison in Yugoslavia. Four of these are charged with political offences, 2 of them having been in gaol when my Government came to office. To my knowledge, no Australian citizen, whether dual national or not, has been imprisoned in Yugoslavia without charges being laid against him or on charges merely of membership of bodies such as Australian soccer clubs. 
In all cases of Australian citizens imprisoned in Yugoslavia, we have sought information about them, and in a number of cases consular access as well. This has been done both by note and by personal representation to the Yugoslav authorities. Honourable senators may be assured that efforts made by Australian representatives have been constant and continuous. The Government is making every effort to protect the interests of Australian citizens who might face charges in Yugoslavia. No Australian government has secured better arrangements or greater protection for its citizens in Yugoslavia in these circumstances than we have. 
I would like to reiterate what I said in the Senate in reply to  Senator Greenwood's  remarks on 30 September, that we inherited a situation where there was little or nothing the Australian Government could do to protect the interests of dual Australian- Yugoslav nationals arrested and tried in Yugoslavia. As I said, this was because the previous Government had done nothing about the situation. We have made great efforts to improve the situation and we have made progress. Consultations are continuing, and I can assure the Senate that this Government will do all that is possible to protect the interests of the people concerned. Neither those people nor the Government's efforts on their behalf are likely to be helped by irresponsible and grossly misleading allegations of the sort which have been put about last week concerning  Mr Marko  Nazor and his wife. 
Since coming into the chamber I have been handed a note about  Mr Marko  Nazor. We have just been advised by the Embassy in Belgrade that TANJUG- the official Yugoslav newsagency has announced that the District Court in Split has issued a bill of indictment against  Mr Nazor  charging him under article 117, paragraph 2, of the Yugoslavian Criminal Code with the offence of 'Association Against the People and State'. I am advised that the penalty for this offence is imprisonment and no death sentence is applicable. 
The debate certainly has covered the globe. One thing with which I want to dispense immediately- it amazes me that it has been raised by  Senator Georges, Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack- is the contention that Australian embassies do not care about what happens to Australian citizens overseas. That is just not the case. Ever since I have been Minister for Foreign Affairs I have insisted many times that extra care be taken and that extra drive and initiative must be shown in relation to all consular cases. A consular case can range from somebody who finds himself broke in a country and goes along to the Embassy for help, somebody who is up on a drunk and disorderly charge, to somebody who is up on a political charge. To say that our embassies are not doing anything for these people is just not on. When an Australian citizen, whether he be of dual nationality or a purely Australian citizen, suffers the rigours of the law, people immediately come to my office and say that he ought to be let off, that he is perfectly innocent, before they have looked at the evidence or anything else. If Australian citizens break the law overseas there is nothing we can do to prevent their suffering the penalties of the law. Exactly the same situation applies if a foreigner to this country breaks the law in this country. 
I might say in passing- I have 2 cases in my mind at the moment- that when the law was being properly applied in foreign countries we were able, by influence and by making a plea without any legal basis, to get the people concerned out of gaol. One of the people I have in mind had served 2 years of a 10-year sentence. Because he was a young man at the time of the offence- it was a drug pushing charge, quite a bad offence- we pleaded: 'Look, he is a long way from home. He is a young chap. He has served 2 years in gaol. Let him out. ' That plea was successful and he was let out. On another occasion we were able, without any legal authority at all on our side, to prevent people from even going to gaol because of our pleas. So it is quite unfair to say that the embassies do not take up these matters at every possible opportunity. 
It is also quite unfair to say that the Government was uncaring about the situations which used to occur in Greece- I knew more about that under the previous regime- and in Yugoslavia. It amazes me that  Senator Greenwood  makes an attack in this regard because he knows that his Government did not get to first base and did nothing about the situation in Yugoslavia. I have checked with our officers who were in the embassies in those days under the previous Government. It amazes them that we have been able to go as far as we have with the Yugoslav authorities because of the hard line that they take. They claim that they have the greater right on dual nationals. As I understand it, they have international law on their side. As I understand the law, the country in which a dual national was born has the greater right on him. The law is in favour of that country. Because of the international law situation the Yugoslav authorities will not listen to the arguments of another nation. 
-Yes. We did so when we first came to office. The problem there is that a precedent would be set. The Yugoslav authorities say that the moment they enter into an agreement with us they naturally set a precedent for anybody else. They quote to us countries such as the United States of America and Canada, as well as European countries, because there are so many Yugoslavs in other countries. That was the problem and it still is. In spite of it, the Yugoslav authorities have come a certain way along the track. 
The first case is the case of  Mr and Mrs Nazor.  We asked for all the things for which we obviously should have asked. We asked for access to  Mr Nazor,  to be at the trial and to be given details of the charges. When  Senator Greenwood  raised his first point I nodded to him that I was in sympathy with him. A cable has been handed to me. I may be wrong, but the information that has been handed to me since I came into the chamber today- it is information from the official Yugoslav Government gazette or newsagency, which is always gospel from the Governmentis that we have not been told about it. If the Department has not already protested and asked why, it certainly will because I will tell it to do so. I imagine it has already done so. The Yugoslav authorities always take this tough line: These are our nationals. These people are committing criminal acts against us. Therefore, we have the right to proceed within the law '.  Senator Greenwood  criticised the Yugoslav law. I cannot do anything about it. I do not write it. I do not write the Spanish law. We can do only what we have done. It is done on each occasion. Time and time again, each day of the week, people are getting into trouble. 

 Senator Greenwood made the point that people would have been unaware of the situation if he had not raised it. He asked how the people would have known. I suggest to him that a lot of people are in trouble, and the public does not know about them. Some of them are on drug charges, some them are on drunk and disorderly charges, and so on. Of course they are not known, if the papers do not pick up the cases. Our embassies come into the picture if people are convicted and imprisoned. Embassy officials visit the gaol and see that the prisoners are doing as well as they can in a gaol situation. 

 Senator Greenwood said that I deliberately drew a distinction between dual nationals and Australians. I did. One of the reasons I sent back yesterday the answer which I gave earlier was that I wanted to be perfectly clear on this matter. Three Australians who are not dual nationals received 21 days gaol for an incident on the coast. Obviously it was not a political incident. Maybe they were a little high spirited. 
Yes, on our Gold Coast.  Senator Greenwood  said I complained about questions being asked. The point I made recently- I made it again today- was that in the Nazor case a campaign was being run. I was hesitant to charge  Senator Greenwood  with being involved in it until he confessed to it. He said that he read the information in the paper. Today he said that he has been approached, evidently by Croatian groups. 
He was approached subsequently. Originally he read the information in the paper. Subsequently he was approached by somebody. I am glad that I did not say anything about it the other day because evidently he had not been approached then. Obviously these people were building up a case as part of a propaganda machine for their political causes.  Senator Greenwood  repeated what he read in the paper. He said that  Mr Nazor  had been sentenced to execution. That was a lie. He said that  Mrs Nazor  was given 6 years or was being charged. That was a lie. I object to false accusations being made. I do not mind anybody bringing matters before me. I do not mind their coming to me in my office. I want to be as helpful as I possibly can. If they do not want to talk to me at that level and give me their information, so be it. If they like to raise the matter in the chamber, which I do not think is the best way in these cases, that is fine, there are no objections. 
Recently I said that  Senator Greenwood  was more interested in exacerbating a difficult position between 3 countries than he was in helping the individual concerned.  His  Government had done nothing about this question, but we have been moving on it in the 3 years in which we have been a government. I charged  Senator Greenwood  with being more interested in that than in the people concerned, but he rejected this. I still say that there were better ways in which he could have gone about this matter. I do not mind questions being asked about it, although I do not like it. I reject questions when they are based on lies. 
In regard to the question about a man being held by the South Vietnamese Government or the Provisional Revolutionary Government, I said that this was a situation which was quite different from the one about which we have been talking. In the heat of war a man was captured and is still being held by the troops. We have consistently done something about this matter. If it is true that possession is 9 points of the law, they have the 9 points. We are moving on a diplomatic basis to try to get this man released. I have written to his family about the matter and I understand that officers of my Department have talked to his family. I wrote to members of his family in Perth only recently telling them of the latest moves and sympathising with them in the great worry that they must be suffering. It is all a matter of judgment. We still have not reestablished our embassy in South Vietnam, and we are talking about all sorts of other things. 
I believe that we have a greater chance of getting  Mr Whitlock  out of the hands of the persons who are holding him. Whether they term him as being a prisoner or not I do not know, but he is being held arising out of the war. I believe that we have a better chance of getting  Mr Whitlock  out of gaol by letting our diplomats do it and by letting me and, if necessary, the Prime Minister maintain the pressures at the level at which we talk to representatives from other countries. All the matters stated in regard to  Mr Whitlock  were true; this was not the case in allegations made about the Government's handling of the Nazor case. There were 2 different cases. They are the points that I make, and I believe that they are valid. I do not believe that you help your case or help a person who is in gaol if you base the case on lies. In regard to the second case, which is a peculiar case, it is just my judgment that it is better to leave the matter to diplomacy, to quietly step up our campaign to try to get this man out of gaol. I would have preferred not to talk about this matter, and it was not I who raised it in the public arena. 
To sum up, why would any embassy, why would any Minister, want to say that if an Australian is in trouble overseas we do not do our best for him? We find out what the charges are. We talk to him and so on. That is the first point. Secondly, it is quite untrue and unfair to say that for some unknown reason, because a person is a Yugoslav, because he is of dual nationality, we are not interested in him. There is the problem on which, I repeat, the previous Government never got to first base but on which we have made some progress. 
The instructions from me to the Department are quite clear: Irrespective of the countries involved, irrespective of the seriousness of the charge or the minutiae of the case, these people should be protected and helped as much as they possibly can by a government. That does not mean that if they break the law overseas we can do anything about it. The laws under which they are sent to gaol may seem harsh to us. In fact they are harsh. One has only to look at some of the laws under which people are being executed in countries very much closer to us. They are laws that we would never accept in this country, that is perfectly true; but nobody in this Parliament can do anything about re-writing those laws. Therefore, we have to work within the parameters set for us. I resent and reject the proposition that embassies do not care about these people. Sometimes it is difficult to find out about these people. Perhaps somebody gets drunk or acts in a disorderly manner and is thrown into gaol and we are not told about it. We have to find out the best way that we can. There may be a breakdown, although we insist that we expect the authorities in all these countries to tell us about these matters. Obviously it is very easy for these things to break down in the bureaucracy. At all stages our people do the best they can. 
In regard to the very difficult question of dual citizenship, we have made progress where the previous Government did not. We want to make more progress. We are not satisfied when we cannot get consular access when we require it. We have not been able to get that yet, but we are working on it. We have made progress and we hope to make more progress. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: l.No. 
-I have seen these reports. We have no information which would confirm these reports. The export of arms to Portuguese Timor would not be permitted by the Government and we have taken steps to make sure that any proposed exports are prevented. We are checking with the Portuguese authorities as to the basis of these reports. We would regard it as absolutely deplorable if there were any substance in them. We do not favour the involvment of Australians in a private capacity in any military activity abroad. 
I have some recollection of the statement. I do not remember it in detail. I shall ask my colleague to get the information for the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present an agreement establishing the Association of Iron Ore Exporting Countries, together with a statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade relating to that agreement. 
-The commodity aid package to which the honourable senator has referred is in fact a new beginning in the bilateral relationship between Australia and South Vietnam. I remind honourable senators that Australia has previously assisted South Vietnam, along with other Indo-China states, by the provision of cash and commodity aid through multilateral agencies such as the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. This most recent package is the first aid that we have given to the PRG on a bilateral basis. We know that the needs of South Vietnam are great for both relief and reconstruction requirements. We want to assist the Government of the. Republic of South Vietnam, first by helping to meet its needs for commodities, by the resumption of work on existing projects should that Government so desire, and by the planning in concert with that Government of the future aid program. It is our desire for friendly relations with the Republic of South Vietnam and our recognition of the postwar needs of that country that are-the foundation of this attitude. 
It is well known that there will be cuts in expenditure by all departments. Consistent with that policy, my department also is cutting down expenditure and has asked ambassadors and heads of missions everywhere to be as prudent in their expenditure as they possibly can.  Senator Missen  pointed out that having 3 ambassadors in one town is contravening that Government policy. Naturally, we have an ambassador to France. The headquarters of the OECD and also the headquarters of UNESCO happen to be in France. We have had an ambassador to the OECD for goodness knows how long. Until recently we did not have an ambassador to UNESCO. We have taken the opportunity of appointing a man who I think is well qualified to be our ambassador to UNESCO. It so happens that we have the 3 ambassadors in one town. If those organisations were in different cities in which we did not have an ambassador, I suppose the argument raised by  Senator Missen  would not arise. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply by the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 885 (Hansard, 7 October 1975, page 952). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to my answer to House of Representatives Question No. 2465  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, pages 1583-1584). 
-I have seen these reports.  Mr Frank  Favaro does not represent the Australian Government in Timor in any capacity whatsoever, either officially or, as the report claims, as  de facto  consul- a term which in itself is meaningless. He is a private Australian citizen who lives in Timor. 
All overseas posts have available to them copies of the Australian customs regulations. They should therefore be able to handle most routine inquiries. If a very technical problem arises, it should be possible for posts to inquire of the Department of Customs in Australia on behalf of the inquirer providing, of course, that enough time is allowed for the reply to come back. I should perhaps point out that if travellers are anticipating any customs problems on their return to Australia, they would be advised to take this up with the Department of Police and Customs before their departure from Australia. In view of the foregoing, it should be clear that overseas posts are equipped to handle relatively straightforward inquiries. But given the complexity of customs procedures and regulations, it is unlikely that a brief training course in customs procedures would be sufficient to enable officers in overseas missions to be fully conversant with all the technicalities of the customs regulations. 
-Yes, I am aware that the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam is a communist government. We were giving aid to the PRG through the multilateral organisations even during the time of the fighting. We were doing so because organisations such as UNICEF and the Red Cross, can look after the children and so on. There is nothing unusual about that. Ever since we came to office we have said that aid is not to go out at political levels. We have said for a long time that post-war aid will be given in Vietnam irrespective of what the final governments are. So politics have nothing to do with it. 
The honourable senator asked whether we would give similar aid to Timor. When he said similar aid' I did not know whether he meant similar in respect of the amount of money or the same types of goods. Either would be quite unsuitable. We have already given aid to Portuguese Timor and, as I have already told honourable senators, we have been constantly in touch with the Red Cross. We have a task force in the Department. I have asked one of our aid people to be on that task force. So if there is any change in the situation in Timor I am quite sure that the International Red Cross will tell us. Of course, we would look at the situation very sympathetically. 
Four people from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid- ACFOAwere certainly due to go to Portuguese Timor yesterday to investigate the position with regard to aid and the need for humanitarian aid there in the future. As I understand it, the team included  Mr Jim  Dunn, Father Mark Raper,  Mr Neil  O'sullivan and the Reverend John Mavor. I understand also that ACFOA hopes a similar team can visit Indonesian Timor to examine the needs there. Members of this non-government delegation have been in touch both with my office and my officials to inform them of their arrangements and the purpose of this visit. As this mission is concerned to investigate aid requirements in Portuguese Timor, arrangements were made for its members to be briefed the day before yesterday by senior officials of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, the operation of which forms part of my portfolio responsibilities. Discussions were also held with a member of my staff who is responsible for aid matters. 
Arrangements have been made for the delegation on its return to inform my officials of the outcome of the mission. As  Senator Gietzelt  suggests, we have some information that there is or could be very shortly a food shortage in Portuguese Timor but we have had to rely on information about this from the International Red Cross which we have found in previous situations to be very good. As I explained to  Senator Bonner,  we have a task force dealing with the question of aid. The Government gives permanent aid to ACFOA, on several levels, one to help with its administration and the other to supplement money which it spends on overseas aid itself. It is a great organisation embodying all the aid agencies in Australia. I will keep in mind what  Senator Gietzelt  suggests and if something arises out of this I will certainly put it to urgent study with the aid section of my Department. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in  Hansard 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It appears that the television newsmen- one team from Channel 7 in Melbourne and the other from Channel 9 in Sydneywere filming in the border areas near the town of Balibo which was the scene of heavy fighting between rival factions on Thursday and Friday of last week. The Senate will be aware of the report cited in a Jakarta newspaper  Kompas  on 20 October that advancing UTD and Apodeti forces had come across the remains of 4 male Europeans in the Balibo area. The UTD leader, Lopez de Cruz, was reported as saying that he could not confirm whether the 4 people were Australian journalists, but the written markings on the ruins of the house in which the 4 bodies had been found indicated that they might be Australians. While the Press report was sketchy it indicated that the house could have been hit by a mortar or artillery shell, presumably during last week 's heavy fighting. 
We are, of course, gravely concerned about the fate of these missing journalists. The Australian Embassy in Jakarta has been able to enlist the co-operation of the Indonesian authorities who have undertaken to do what they can through their contacts with Apodeti and UDT to try to ascertain the identity of the 4 bodies. An officer of the embassy will be proceeding to the border area shortly, perhaps today, to make an on-the-spot investigation. It has been the Government's practice to issue standard warnings as opportunity permits to Australians who have proceeded to Timor about the risks of travelling to Timor while fighting continues. We have established, in the case of both the Channel 7 and Channel 9 teams, that the pilots of the charter aircraft involved were specifically provided with such warnings. I would like to reemphasise to any people who are considering a visit to Timor that the situation there is unstable and that they might be putting themselves at serious risk by entering areas where fighting is in progress or may occur. 
-I am not aware of the details of this conference or of what motions might be moved. I will certainly look at the matter. I thought  Senator Baume  might have been referring to the United Nations vote recently on Zionism. 
-I appreciate that. We voted in the way the honourable senator would want us to vote. I take it that is why he did not raise the question. 
-The Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on 17 October adopted by a vote of 70 for, 29 against and 27 abstentions the draft resolution to have the General Assembly determine that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination. Australia voted with the minority of 29 against. The Committee had earlier adopted 2 draft resolutions on the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination by votes of 126 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions, and 126 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. Australia on those occasions voted with the majority. The Australian representative on the Third Committee was instructed to oppose the draft resolution on Zionism, to make it clear in his explanation of vote that the Australian Government could not accept in any sense the determination contained in the draft resolution that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination. The representative said that the Australian Government believed that the attempt by the co-sponsors of the draft resolution to equate Zionism with racial discrimination was a distortion of fact, was unhelpful in the context of the search for a settlement in the Middle East and weakened the essential purposes of the 2 resolutions on the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination. 
I am not sure whether the honourable senator requires an answer about money we are giving to multilateral organisations in the Vietnam zone or in general, but I can get figures for him if he will indicate specifically what information he wants. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have nothing to add to the Prime Minister's answer to a similar question by the honourable senator (Senate Hansard, 2  October  1975, page 930). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Cultural Attaches (or Cultural Counsellors) are at present attached to the Australian embassies in Jakarta, Tokyo and Peking. 
An officer was first appointed as Counsellor (Cultural) in Tokyo on 1 4. 1 .  1 966. The present occupant of this position took up duties on 4.2. 1 975. 
An officer was sent to Jakarta as Counsellor (Cultural) on 10. 1. 1 974, and to Peking as Cultural Attache on 2.4. 1 975. 
An officer served as Cultural Attache in Paris from 1 947 to 1967 when his duties were broadened to include all UNESCO matters. 
-As I recall them, the figures quoted by  Senator Gietzelt  are correct. I do not have them in front of me. I have been talking to the Minister for Administrative Services about the whole effect of the situation through which we are going. I am assured by the Minister that the actions of the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition could necessitate further reductions in the facilities available, including those available to the Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition office holders. 
-I shall give a few words on the background. We regret very much the fighting which recently reached another peak in Beirut. We realise that the trouble is an internal affair for Lebanon. We hope that an arrangement may soon be reached between the conflicting parties which will restore peace and allow Lebanon to continue to play its useful independent role in the Middle East. The fighting in Beirut has made it very difficult for the Australian Embassy to deal with the consular inquiries which it has received about the welfare of Australians in Lebanon. These inquiries will be answered just as soon as circumstances permit the Embassy to make contact with the people involved. Australians are still advised not to travel to Beirut except on necessary business. That is the general background. 
In relation to the specific matters raised by  Senator Marriott,  I point out that about 10 days ago we were very worried about the situation in Beirut. We got our Embassy to confer with Great Britain, the United States and Canada- all of us have nationals there- to try to co-ordinate and to keep in touch with one another's thinking. We have authorised the Ambassador to evacuate our people where he thinks fit, should this be necessary. Generally this means that women and children go first and then there is a cutting down of the Embassy staff until the very last moment. I have been criticised at times in relation to some of the Embassies I have evacuated. I take the stand that when a place gets completely out of control and when an Embassy cannot carry out its normal functions such as news gathering, and when it cannot put the point of view of the Government of the home country, it should be evacuated. In those circumstances I believe it is not right to endanger the life and limb of Australians working of necessity for us there. The situation seems to have quietened down a little bit since we had those talks about 10 days ago. But the arrangements remain. The Ambassador will be able to use his own discretion and also, will be able to keep in touch with the 3 other countries I have mentioned. 
We were glad to welcome to Australian such a distinguished regional and Commonwealth statesman as Tun Abdul Razak. What on the whole was a very successful visit was marred on occasions by unruly demonstrations that were conducted by a small but vocal minority of students. The Government deplores those demonstrations. 
-I regret that  Senator Missen  has put in that we were relieved not to have information on this situation. The sort of information that we are getting is, unfortunately, being exaggerated on one side and played down on the other. So it is very hard to accept at face value a lot of the evidence that we are getting. It is now well over 12 months since I first started talking to  Dr Mario  Soares at the United Nations. The situation has gone through a lot of stages. There have been some very unfortunate stages in which I think a lot of the parties have acted very unwisely. If cool could have been maintained and the original Portuguese idea had been followed of first setting up a constituent assembly, moving into a parliamentary situation and then abiding by what the Timorese people said, and if that could have been allowed to work without interference, I think that would have been the sensible course. In the meantime the Portuguese situation has deteriorated at home. So we have a very difficult situation. At the moment we still have hopes of getting these people to talks although maybe those hopes have faded because of the present situation. 
Australia has never been a party principal in the dispute and we have made that clear. I do not think anybody argues with that situation. While there are some hopes of getting talks going, I certainly do not want to be another one exacerbating the situation in Portuguese Timor. I think  Senator Missen  would agree with me. On the information we have the position is that some Fretilin envoys have left and are travelling through parts of Africa before going to Lisbon. The last information I have is that the Indonesians are prepared to enter into talks with them and with the Democratic Union of TimorUDT. I understand that it has not been clarified whether Apodeti will talk or not. 
It is a very difficult and a very sad situation. We are all upset, and nobody more than I, over the disappearance of Australians. When you are in the box seat these things are just not nice to have to deal with. However, while there is any chance at all of talks, as slim as those chances might be and as pessimistic as one might feel in one's heart about what might come out of those talks, I do not believe that it is the job of Australia sitting on the sidelines to exacerbate the situation in any way. That is as we see it. It is a situation which is changing from day to day and in many ways it is a very sad situation. If there is anything we can do to help we will do it. 
We have tried consistently for 12 months to get these people to talks in order to work out the problems with all parties present. We have been trying to get Indonesia 's interest in the situation. Whilst the chance of talks is there we should not do anything to ruin it. 
-Senator Sheil may have missed the answer to this yesterday. An official of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta left Jakarta on the evening of 2 1 October for Bali en route to Indonesian Timor. He was to have travelled from Bali to Kupang on 22 October. He has been asked to seek the assistance of the Governor of Indonesian Timor in making contact with the UDT leader, Lopez da Cruz.  Mr da  Cruz was of course the UDT official reported in the Indonesian Press as having confirmed the sighting of the bodies of four male Europeans in Balibo following capture of that town by UDT/ Apodeti forces. The embassy official is  Mr Richard  Johnston, Third Secretary at the embassy. He has spent one year at the post as a consular officer, travelling widely in Indonesia, and is at present a member of the Embassy's Political Section. He speaks Indonesian fluently. 
I can only say that the Government is most disappointed with the attitude adopted by members of the Opposition towards this Bill. They are obviously blinkered by ideology. It is, they say, a socialist intrusion into an area that legitimately belongs to the private sector and in which they say that private sector has been so successful; so they say that it should be opposed in its entirety. Members of the Opposition say that the private sector is opposed to it and that no other free enterprise country has a need for such a state trading enterprise. I am prompted by  Senator Coleman's  query to them as to whether they have read the Bill. What is the fact? The fact is that this Corporation is designed to foster trade in areas where it is not being adequately developed, that is, with the centrally planned economies and the newly rich Middle East countries who prefer and sometimes insist on government to government dealings. Who is opposed to it? The chambers of commerce are, but what do they represent? What trade do their constituent members conduct with the centrally planned economies? Virtually nil. 
Who is in favour of the Corporation? All State government departments with responsibility for trade and industrial development favour it. At a meeting in Canberra last year the State Ministers of Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania supported it. The Western Australian and New South Wales Ministers were to attend but were prevented from doing so because of an air strike. The Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association strongly supports it and says it is the only vehicle through which they could compete in the 'big ticket' Middle East projects which, it says, must be on a government to government basis. HEM A is a most prestigous group of Australian companies, as  Senator Coleman  outlined earlier in this debate. 
Where are the trade achievements of the private sector in trade with the centrally planned economies? Their achievements have been virtually nil. In 1963-64 our exports to the centrally planned economies mainly wool sold by auction and wheat sold by a statutory authority, were valued at $320m or 11.5 per cent of our total exports. In 1 973-74- ten years later- our exports to the centrally planned economies, mainly wool and wheat, totalled only $4 1 5m or 6 per cent of our total exports. Where are the trade achievements of the private sector referred to by  Senator Durack?  There are none of any significance. In reference to the Opposition claims that none of the major trading countries has seen a need for a state trading enterprise to conduct trade with the centrally planned economies yet do well without it, I ask: How about the United States of America, the bastion of free enterprise? Its Export/Import Bank with $20,000m ties up markets in the centrally planned economies and South America. The United States Government and the Japanese Government have entered into a 3 year agreement for the supply of 42 million tons of grains and soya beans to Japan. What does the National Country Party think of that? What does the Opposition think of the massive wheat/oil deal just concluded by the United States Government with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. How secure are the U.S.S.R. and Japan as markets for our wheat now? 
The European Economic Community has now embarked on direct government to government deals. The EEC Commission has just concluded negotiations with the Arab Republic of Egypt on a 3-year agreement for about $200m worth of EEC agricultural products- one million tons of wheat, 225 000 tons of sugar, and 1 1 000 tons of butter, milk powder and cheese. What does the National Country Party think of that? 

 Mr President, the real issue is whether we move with the times in a rapidly changing word and equip ourselves to match other countries and continue to develop new markets for our agricultural products and manufactures. I cannot think of one major trading nation that is not or has not moved in the direction of more government to government trading arrangements. The U.S.A., Japan and the EEC have already done so, as have Canada and New Zealand. Australia as the world's twelfth ranking trading nation cannot afford to live in the 1950s, as the Opposition wants it to do. This Trading Corporation would be a positive step in the direction of the late 1970s and 1980s but, unfortunately, the Opposition is blinkered by ideology. Leave it to the private sector, the Opposition says. Let us have no socialist intrusion into its legitimate sphere. Where would our wheat trade, wool trade, and dairy products trade be today if it were left to the private sector? We live in a changing world and we must adapt to it. 
I again urge Opposition senators to have an objective look at this Bill and to consider that all their State Government Departments support it. All State Ministers present at a special meeting in Canberra support it. Knowing what I do of the blinkers on the Opposition today and of the atmosphere in which we live I suppose it is futile to ask the Opposition to appraise objectively what this legislation is all about. On that note I commend this Bill to the Senate. 
Question put. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Agreement relating to Refugee Seamen was done at The Hague on 23 November 1957. Australia's signature to the Agreement, which could, in part, be attributed to the honourable senator's long interest in the matter, was lodged by Instrument of Accession on 18 April 1973 and entered into force for Australia on 17 July 1973. It is embodied in the Australian Treaty Series of 1973, No. 17. 
and (3) There have been no applications from foreign seamen seeking assistance under the Agreement since it came into force for Australia. On occasions when foreign seamen make application to remain in Australia for political or other reasons their cases are considered on their individual merits. 
-Perhaps if I were to give  Senator Greenwood  the facts he could then judge whether his allegations are correct.  Mr Nazor  was charged under Article 1 1 7, paragraph (2) of the Criminal Code with being a member of an illegal organisation, the HRB- that is, the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood- swearing an oath of membership, taking an illegal name and membership number as directed by the HRB, remaining a member after the amnesty law of 23 November 1973, being a current financial member, and being trained for terrorist activities. Nazor pleaded guilty as charged and was found guilty as charged. The  President  rejected the defence citation of paragraph (4) of Article 1 1 7 on grounds that Nazor remained a member of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood after 23 November 1973 and continued to work for it.  Mr Nazor  was sentenced to 3 years' strict imprisonment at Split on 24 October after conviction under Article 1 17 (2) of the Yugoslav Criminal Code which prescribes the penalty for membership of organisations directed against the Yugoslav State.  Mr Nazor,  as I said, pleaded guilty to this charge. At the request of the prosecution and defence lawyers, and at the behest of  Mr Nazor's  own family, the trial was closed to the Press and public. Nevertheless, the Yugoslav authorities gave permission for the Consul of our embassy in Belgrade to attend the trial throughout, and he also had the opportunity to speak to  Mr Nazor.I  believe we should welcome this step by the Yugoslav authorities. It is all the more to be welcomed when seen against the fact that although  Mr Nazor  had an Australian passport he chose to enter Yugoslavia as a Yugoslav national on presentation of a passport issued by that country.  Mr Nazor  has informed us that he intends to appeal. 
In the continuing climate of violence in Beirut our Embassy remains in close touch with the British, Americans and Canadians there, as I said in my reply to a question asked by  Senator Marriott  on 23 October. We have authorised the Ambassador to evacuate our people when he thinks fit, should this be necessary. Because of the unstable situation in the central city area, and especially in the area where our chancery is located, the Australian Embassy moved on 23 October to the Carlton Hotel which is on the far western edge of the city somewhat away from the main fighting. Ambassador  Mr Peter  Curtis is now resident at the hotel. Under present conditions the Embassy's capacity to deal with inquiries is still limited. The Ambassador's advice to Australian nationals is still that they should not go to Beirut unless their business is essential. For the time being we are confident that the Embassy can continue to carry out its functions under as secure a combination of living and working conditions as it is now possible to achieve. It remains the Australian Government's hope that some arrangements may soon be reached between the conflicting parties which will restore peace in Lebanon. 
-We have now had confirmation that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has made arrangements with the PRG authorities for a number of foreigners who were caught in South Vietnam during the fighting in March to be flown from Hanoi to Bangkok via Vientiane at the end of this week. The PRG has advised us that  Mr Whitlock  is in this group. Indeed, that confirms what the  Charge a" Affaires  for the Democratic Republic of Vietnam told me a few days ago in answer to my inquiry about  Mr Whitlock. 
-I do not think that any member of the Opposition, in undertaking to block the Budget, has considered the serious implications of that action on our aid commitments to Papua New Guinea. Nearly half of Papua New Guinea's budget comes from Australian aid funds under Appropriation Bill (No. 1), which the Opposition has seen fit to block. The Papua New Guinea Government is already experiencing a constrained financial situation. In the short term the effects of blocking aid to Papua New Guinea will be an inability to pay the salaries of Australian expatriates working in the Papua New Guinea Administration and problems with proceeding with large scale Australian funded projects. In the longer term any sustained delay in the provision of aid funds to Papua New Guinea could place its Government in a position of extreme difficulty in its administration. It is one thing to block the Budget to seek immediate political gain and to satisfy political ambitions. However, those who have rushed into this hasty decision should be reminded- and the people of Australia should be aware- of the many implications of this decision which obviously were not considered when it was made. Among those unthought of results will be the effects upon another country dependent upon Australian aid. 
I did see some reports of the group from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid that had gone to Timor. As I understand it, all the members of the group have returned to Australia except  Mr Dunn  who intends to stay longer. As regards the question of aid, which is of particular interest to the members of the group, they are having talks with my staff today. I understand from my staff this morning that one of the preliminary observations that the members of this group have made is that, as the Red Cross has told us, there is a great problem in the distribution of food. In fact as I understand it from the brief talk that I had this morningI will certainly correct this if I am wrong- in some places there are packets of food which are surplus and in other places there is no food at all. The problem is concerned with shifting the food around. Of course, that will apply to any food that goes to Timor, should things worsen there. 
There is again the question of distribution. The members of this group have confirmed what I think we all know, that if things worsen in Portuguese Timor the distribution of humanitarian aid will become very difficult to handle. The hopeful thing at the moment is that according to my calculations the Portuguese and the Indonesians are due to start talks, if the dateline is correct, on Friday. We have requested both sides to treat those talks very seriously. We have drawn to their attention the seriousness of the situation and have asked them to try to make the talks full scale talks. Hopefully out of that will come further talks which will bring in all the people of the UDT, the Apodeti and the Fretilin. Our consistent policy all the time has been to try to get Portugal to adopt a more serious attitude to this situation and to get talks going. As I said the other day in answer to  Senator Missen,  however much we might doubt the efficacy of these talks, the alternative is war. So even with this faint hope that we have, I still think that Australian policy should be aimed at getting these people to talk. Any help that we can offer in that regard we will certainly offer. 
-Regarding the return of bodies, I would think that the next-of-kin would have the prime say on that. These people have gone through a terrible time and, as far as I am concerned, the question of the return of the bodies would be left to them. On the question of the missing newsmen, I had hoped by now to have definitive information on the fate of the 5 missing newsmen but I regret that this information is not yet to hand. I recognise that this is a tragic situation for the next-of-kin, who will not wish to give up hope until the fate of their sons and husbands is confirmed. But I have to say that I have no encouraging words in that regard. All the information we have been able to assemble indicates that the 5 missing journalists were among those killed in the fighting which took place in the town of Balibo on 15 and 16 October. Documents apparently found at the scene of the fighting and which we expect to receive shortly are said to have belonged to the missing newsmen. 
The Government recognises that there has been a number of disturbing accounts of the circumstances in which the 5 newsmen may have met their deaths. A Fretilin soldier interviewed by the media in Dili yesterday is reported to have described the entry of the anti-Fretilin forces into Balibo. He spoke in terms of a considerable amount of firing as the anti-Fretilin forces advanced on the town and he described the efforts of the 5 newsmen to signal their neutral status to the advancing forces. Other reports suggest that the 5 newsmen took shelter in a house which was subject to a direct hit by a mortar barrage. That a heavy bombardment of Balibo took place has been confirmed by Fretilin spokesmen. There are also reports that the house in which the newsmen reportedly took shelter and of which photographs appeared in the Press a day or two ago was used to store fuel supplies. This may account for the suggestion that the interior of the house was quickly enveloped by fire. But in fact the Government cannot be certain about any of these reports. 
Efforts to have an on the spot investigation carried out have not proved successful. On the one hand, access to Balibo through Dili is not practicable at this time. On the other hand, the Indonesian-Portuguese Timor border has been closed, preventing access through Indonesian Timor.  Mr Johnson,  the consular officer we have sent to Indonesian Timor, is still in Kupang but thus far has been unable to travel to the border areas. Nor have our efforts to contact the UDT, Apodeti and Kota forces yet yielded a definitive result. One problem is the hostility with which Australia appears to be held by some of the antiFretilin leaders. There appears to be an impression that Australia through its relief program has shown support for the Fretilin forces. Reports given currency by Portuguese sources in Atauro and Macao a week or two ago that Australians were assisting Fretilin forces militarily have also had a damaging effect in this regard. As I indicated in my statement of 1 7 October the Government will continue, of course, its most strenuous efforts to obtain final and authoritative information on the missing newsmen. We are making further efforts to enlist the good offices of the Indonesian Government in allowing  Mr Johnson  to visit the border area in an effort to make direct contact with the anti-Fretilin leaders. We are trying to ascertain again whether it would be possible to make a direct visit to Balibo. I feel bound to note, however, that as long as the fighting in the border areas continues, and in the absence of direct word from the anti-Fretilin forces, the prospects for an early and final resolution of this matter are not good. 
I am sorry that I cannot help  Senator Bessell  with those figures immediately, but I will ask the Minister for Overseas Trade to provide them for him as soon as possible. 
-I am afraid that the situation in the Lebanon is no better, if it is not worse. Our Embassy in Beirut is now suggesting to Australian citizens in Lebanon who seek the Embassy's advice that they should consider leaving Beirut unless they have overriding reasons for remaining. If the fighting in Beirut gets much worse the Embassy may have to make a more general recommendation. I hope that Australian citizens in Lebanon will heed the Embassy's advice. While the Embassy will do what it can to assist Australian citizens in whatever circumstances may develop- we have been looking at possible arrangements for some time- it is clearly better for Australians to make their own plans in good time and while circumstances allow. 
I deeply regret the developments which have made this kind of planning necessary. For a long time Lebanon has fulfilled a role in the Middle East which has been of value and importance to the rest of the world. In Australia we have come to value the strong links which have been forged between the Lebanese and Australian peoples. I am sure that all Australians will share my hope and that of the Australian Government that the fighting will be soon ended and a democratic Lebanese state will again be at peace and able to make its unique contributions to the world. 
I have a couple of comments which, hopefully, will bear on the Cyprus situation. Following the partial lifting of the United States embargo on arms for Turkey, talks between the Turkish Government and the United States Administration on United States bases in Turkey are expected to resume shortly. Elections have been held in Turkey, which may make it possible for the Government there to devote more attention to the pressing need for a political settlement in Cyprus. It is not yet known when the next round of inter-communal talks between the Greek and Turkish Cypriots will be held, but there now appear to be fewer obstacles to the resumption of these talks than existed a month ago. High on the agenda of these talks will be the definition of the boundaries of the 2 zones. It seems certain that future constitutional arrangements will be discussed also. Australia has consistently taken the view that the solution to the problem of Cyprus must be worked out by the Cypriots themselves. We hope that the discussions will be resumed soon and that they will be continued without interruption until a settlement is reached. 
I think it is inevitable in these sorts of situations, as was the case in Vietnam, that there will be divisiveness in countries which are interested and that that divisiveness will finally go from campuses to parliaments all over the world. As I understand it, there are members of my Party who do lean towards the Fretilin side. As I understand it,  Mr Michael  Darby, who is not a member of my Party, also leans that way.  Senator Carrick  shakes his head to indicate that I am wrong. If I am wrong, I withdraw it. I understood that  Mr Darby  had made public statements in that regard.  Senator Carrick  asks whether we will take action to stop this sort of thing. No, I do not think any government can or should stop people from expressing what they think in various situations. I was asked on television one night whether we should stop people in our Party from saying these things. I do not think we should. I do not think that is the sort of thing one can do. 
As  Senator Durack  quite rightly says, you cannot anyway. 
-Neither we should be able to. I hope that the day never comes when  Senator Durack  's Party can or would want to stop expressions of that sort. 
The governments understand perfectly well that we do not recognise the right of any of the. contending parties there at this time to have control of Portuguese Timor. 

 - Senator Gietzelt is correct. Yesterday he asked me a question which had 3 parts to it. I answered two of them but I inadvertently did not answer the first part. I have been looking at this question for some time and I have a rather long answer which embodies more than that particular point. I will keep the reply until the end of question time. If I were to interpolate it now I think there would be valid objections. 
Yes, I did read with utter amazement that headline about what I said yesterday. There is no possible way that anybody could read that into the remarks that I made yesterday on this very delicate situation. To take that angle, even if I had said it, I think is journalism at its worst. I regret very much that the paper said it; I just leave it there. There was also a report on the air this morning that  Mr Adam  Malik, the Foreign Minister, had intimated that he might make a plane available for our benefit to try to do better than we have been doing in our attempts to see the bodies, if it is at all possible. We sincerely hope that that is true. We have not stopped our efforts since yesterday to get more assistance for  Mr Johnson  or for anybody else from our embassy to get closer and obtain some more information in this very sensitive and delicate situation. 
A memorial service for the newsmen is being held today in Melbourne and I have sent a message in which I think the Senate may be interested. I am sure all honourable senators would agree with it. The message states: 
In both my official capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs and more personally as the father of journalists who have reported from war zones in the past, I wish to salute the passing of the five Australians who ventured to seek out news from the dangerous area of present conflict in East Timor. 
I pay tribute to their courage in pursuit of their profession and offer the sincerest sympathy of myself and my family to their families. 

 - Mr President, you will recall that during question time  Senator Gietzelt  asked me a question and I intimated that, on the generality of the question he was asking me, I had prepared some notes. They are fairly long notes, and  Senator Gietzelt  agreed that I should answer the question at the end of question time. 
The Government has viewed with concern widespread reports that Indonesia is involved in military intervention in Portuguese Timor. The position of the Australian Government is clear. We deplore the fighting in the border areas. We continue to believe that a solution to the problems in Portuguese Timor should be sought through peaceful means and free of external intervention. Indonesia has been told of our views in this regard and urged to pursue her interests through diplomatic means. If there is one ray of hope in a gloomy situation, it is the possibility that talks will at last get under way. The Indonesian Foreign Minister has agreed to meet with his Portuguese counterpart in Europe this week. Fretilin and UDT have also signified in recent days their willingness to hold separate talks with the Portuguese. We hope that Apodeti will also agree to talks with the Portuguese, and that all three parties will reconsider their present refusal to talk to each other. 
The Australian Government strongly supports resolution of the conflict in Portuguese Timor by peaceful means through which the will of the people will be expressed. We have made numerous representations to this effect to the Portuguese, to the Indonesians, and to the representatives of Fretilin who have visited Australia. I have very recently instructed the Australian Ambassadors in Lisbon and Jakarta to reiterate to the Portuguese and Indonesian Governments our firm hope that the talks between these two governments later this week result in a positive and constructive outcome. Were all the parties to wish it, the Government would be prepared to offer an Australian venue for round-table talks. That the situation in Portuguese Timor has come to its present pass is, of course, cause for deep regret. It reflects, above all, the immaturity of Timor's own aspiring political leaders, who in less than eighteen months have succeeded in wrecking Portugal's decolonisation program, sharply polarising political opinions through the territory, and finally plunging the territory into violent civil war. The past 18 months have turned out to be a graveyard of all those earlier hopes that the Timorese politicians, representing a small Western-educated elite, would shelve their differences for the sake of the territory at large. 
Nor can the Portuguese escape their share of the responsibility. Portugal is the administering power, but it was very much weakness of purpose on the part of the Portuguese administration which allowed the UDT 'show of force' in early August to develop into a probably unintended coup and thus provoked the Fretilin counter-coup. It seems that: Timor, like Angola, has become part of the debris of the Portuguese revolution. From the time of the overthrow of the Caetano regime in Lisbon and the subsequent decision of the Portuguese to shed their overseas territories, the Australian Government had hoped that the decolinisation process in Portuguese Timor could proceed in an orderly fashion which allowed the people of the territory to decide their own future. We had hoped that Portugal would remain in control for a period long enough for the political consciousness of the people to develop to the point where there was a substantial measure of agreement regarding the future. 
The need for orderly progress had also been of paramount importance in view of the interest of the countries of the region, particularly Indonesia but also Australia and other regional countries, in ensuring that the territory would not emerge in a way which would have an unsettling effect on the region. These hopes which the Government had worked hard to see realized have unhappily not been borne out. Portugal's inability, or reluctance to retain control opened the way to a struggle for supremacy among a number of essentially immature, rival political factions. From this struggle the Fretilin group, aided by the Timorese army units and by access to Portuguese arms, emerged as being stronger than its rivals. 
The Australian Government had still hopedand acted accordingly- that agreement on the future of the territory could have been reached by negotiation between Portugal and the main contending factions. But the meeting scheduled for 20 September did not take place, at least in part because of the intransigence of Fretilin, which has continued to claim to the United Nations and the world in general that it is the only authentic and legitimate voice of Portuguese Timor. Fretilin has since agreed that it will speak to the Portuguese- but not, yet, to the other parties. So has UDT; but UDT, too, is now attempting to lay down preconditions, while at one stage in their approach to talks the overriding concern of the Portuguese seemed to be with the fate of the Portuguese prisoners held by UDT. Fretilin has cetainly now said that it continues to recognise Portuguese sovereignty and the right of Portugal to preside over the decolonisation process. 
It is in this situation of drift, of Fretilin's refusal to accept that UDT or Apodeti has anything further to contribute to the decolonisation process, and of Portugal 's regrettable inability to reassert its authority in the territory, that we view the various policy pronouncements, newspaper reports and the like from Jakarta and Timor itself. Were there substance in these reports, the Australian Government would be extremely disappointed, and we have so informed the Indonesian authorities. The Australian Government has urged that Indonesia pursue her interests through diplomatic means. We have told the Indonesians that we remain opposed to the use of armed force. We have also said that we are firm in the view that the people of Portuguese Timor should be allowed to determine their own future. We have urged the Indonesian authorities to reaffirm their own public commitment to the principle of self-determination in Portuguese Timor. 
Indonesia can, of course, point to the presence of over 40 000 refugees in her territory- some 7 per cent of Portuguese Timor's entire population. She can correctly claim that Fretilin has established its present position of supremacy because it controlled the army and not necessarily because it had overwhelming popular support. Indonesia can argue, as indeed we ourselves have been inclined to argue, that before the recent troubles UDT was vying with, and possibly exceeding, Fretilin in terms of popular support. All this is not to excuse Indonesia's reported actions but perhaps goes some way towards explaining them. We should not lose sight of Indonesia's concern about order and stability in Portuguese Timor, which is located in the middle of the Indonesian archipelago. It is necessary that we, the Portuguese and the parties in Timor should recognise the importance of the Indonesian interest in the territory, just as other countries in the region do. 
No more than Indonesia, can Australia accept any one party's claim to be the only true representative of Portuguese Timor. Fretilin may have prevailed over its rivals in the initial round of fighting and skirmishing, but it has established no right thereby to speak for all Timorese. These matters should not be settled by force of arms. What if the Timorese army had decided to side with the UDT, or with Apodeti, or had staged a purely military coup? Of course, nor can UDT or 
Apodeti claim to speak for the people of Portuguese Timor simply because they are not attempting to demonstrate some military capacity in conflict with Fretilin. These matters, I repeat, should not be settled by force. The Australian Government does not pretend to know what the people of Portuguese Timor want. But we do want them to have the opportunity to say what they want. The need in our view, is to get all the parties round the table for talks. The Australian Government is doing what it can to help such talks on their way. 
Talks on Portuguese Timor between the Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers took place in Rome between 1 and 3 November. A communique was issued at the conclusion of the talks. We have not yet received the full text of the communique, but according to news reports the 2 Foreign Ministers agreed that there should be a restoration of peace and order in the Territory and that resolution of the conflict should be sought through talks with all the political groups in Portuguese 
Timor. The Portuguese have reportedly agreed to try to arrange such talks in the near future. The 2 Foreign Ministers, in their communique, were also reported to have agreed that in the implementation of the decolonisation of Portuguese Timor it would be essential to safeguard the legitimate interests of the countries in the region, particularly Indonesia's interest as the nearest neighbouring country. 
The Government welcomes this reported outcome of the talks. It has long urged that the solution of the problems of Portuguese Timor should be sought through talks between Portugal and all the Timorese parties. We have consistently held that any durable solution must recognise the importance of the Indonesian interest in the territory. We hope that the talks now foreshadowed will lead to the restoration of a decolonisation program like that agreed earlier at Bacan in which the claims of all political parties could be satisfactorily decided. 
May I add one thing, which is not a direct answer to  Senator Everett's  question. The reports from Portuguese Timor are that there is a considerable amount of tension in the area. As I mentioned in regard to Beirut last week, I make the point that people who do not have very important business there ought to look to whether they should remain in an area which is potentially dangerous and in which there is not a normal war being fought, as there is not in Beirut, which would put themselves in considerable danger. 
-I ask  Senator Bonner  to put his question on the notice paper and I will get the details for him. 
Yes, we have received the communique. In summary, the outcome of the talks is quite satisfactory. The joint communique expresses the support of the Governments of Portugal and Indonesia for the 'principles of decolonisation as enunciated in the pertinent resolutions of the United Nations' and for the 'scrupulous safeguarding of the principle of respect for the will of the people of Portuguese Timor'. The communique notes the 2 Foreign Ministers' agreement that 'fundamental responsibility for the decolonisation of Portuguese Timor' lies with Portugal which is to pledge itself to the 'speedy and orderly implementation of the act of self determination by the people of Portuguese Timor'. There was agreement on the 'urgent need to restore peace and order in the territory so as to enable its people freely to decide their own future'. It was further agreed that there should, 'at the earliest possible time', be a 'meeting between Portugal and all the political parties of Portuguese Timor' aimed at 'ending armed strife and bringing about a peaceful and orderly process of decolonisation'. 
There was also agreement on the need to solve the problem posed by the presence of refugees in Indonesian Timor and by the holding of 23 Portuguese soldiers by UDT. The communique noted agreement that in the process of decolonisation it would be essential 'to safeguard the legitimate interests of the countries of the region, particularly the interests of Indonesia as the closest neighbouring country'. The communique concluded with agreement that close co-operation and consultation between the Portuguese and Indonesian governments should be maintained. 
The communique is a highly promising document. It encompasses the sort of principles and procedures which the Australian Government has hoped that the Portuguese and Indonesian governments would be able to agree upon. The Government hopes that the principles and procedures outlined in the communique will be put into effect as soon as possible, especially talks between Portugal and the Timorese political parties. I seek leave to table a copy of the communique. 
-On the morning of Thursday, 30 October 1975, officers of my Department learned by chance that the staff of the Embassy of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea were travelling to Sydney by a commercial flight and that they were to leave Australia by an international flight at 1 p.m. on the same day. No explanation or communication of any kind was received from the DPRK Embassy until the following day when 2 Notes were received addressed to the Department of Foreign Affairs. One purported to give reasons for the withdrawal of their Embassy. The Government regrets the unsubstantiated and baseless assertions which have been made by the Government of the DPRK. These have been formally rejected by the Australian Government. The second Note assigns responsibilities in regard to the DPRK property to another embassy. 
The DPRK Embassy's Note and actions do not amount to severance of relations. This is also the view of the DPRK. We are, of course, making further inquiries, including inquiries regarding the status of our Embassy and staff in Pyongyang. I do not think that it is appropriate to make further comment on that except to say that our Embassy reports all is normal in Pyongyang.  Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the reply that we sent to the DPRK in answer to those notes. 
The first part of the honourable senator's question asks for my opinion as to how Portugal may behave following the signing of the communique. I do not think 1 am in a position to express an opinion. It is dangerous to offer gratuitous opinions which may be praiseworthy or which may in time prove to be wrong. In any event, a Minister should not be asked for opinions in this place. The honourable senator asked whether the Australian Government is prepared to offer facilities in Australia for talks to be held between the relevant parties. I repeat what I said the other day. If the parties involved desire such talks to be held in Australia we would certainly make a venue available to them. In relation to the question asked about the various incursions at Batugade and Balibo, I do not want to add anything at this stage. I made a comprehensive statement last Thursday. I do not want to be a hindrance in this matter; I want to be helpful and I do not want in any way to upset talks that may take place. I believe I ought not add to the summing up I gave last Thursday. 
-The latest situation is that there has been a respite in the fighting in Beirut since last Friday. There is still no sign of any permanent improvement in the situation. The Australian Embassy is continuing to advise Australians that if their presence in Lebanon is not essential they should consider leaving now while civil air services are available. The Embassy will do what it can to assist our citizens in whatever circumstances may develop, but those circumstances may well be such as to make ineffective some of the plans that we have made. So I repeat what I said on 30 October in reply to a question asked by  Senator Marriott,  that Australians in Lebanon should make their own plans in good time while circumstances allow. 
It remains a matter of concern for the world that the situation in Lebanon should have been seized from the hands of the elected representatives, and that the Lebanese experiment in multicommunal democracy should have been brought by violence to the brink of failure. On 30 October the Secretary-General of the United Nations made a statement calling on the leaders of all parties to the conflict in Lebanon to put an end to the bloodshed and to turn to the ways of peace and conciliation in settling their problems.  Dr Waldheim  said that such a move by the Lebanese leaders would find warm support in the United Nations and in the world at large. I know that such a move would find warm support in Australia, especially among our fellow citizens- there are many of them- who have family or other connections in Lebanon. They will be feeling this tragedy more than most and hoping more than most for the return of peace and prosperity to Lebanon. 
I have seen the reports in several newspapers this morning. They are not the first such reports; I expect that they will not be the last. Like earlier versions, they are neither firm nor clear as to their source. Like much of the propaganda we have seen on this issue, the respect accorded to truth seems minimal. We have no information which would confirm the reports. I therefore must approach them with the utmost scepticism. The Government's position is that we would not permit the export of arms to Portuguese Timor. We have taken steps to ensure that this will not occur. As I told the Senate last month, we would regard it as absolutely deplorable if there were any substance in the reports. We do not favour- I do not apologise for repeating this- the involvement of Australians in a private capacity in any military activity abroad. The newspaper reports this morning claimed that this matter had been raised already with our embassy in Jakarta. It is true that the Indonesian authorities have referred to reports of military assistance to Fretilin forces. No evidence has been furnished in support of any such claims. We are following this matter up with the authorities in Jakarta. 
I ignore the last gratuitous comment that  Senator Chaney  added to the question. There is no foundation for it and no truth in it at all. No, it is not normal procedure for anybody to attend a trial, particularly in Yugoslavia when it is a secret trial. The previous Government never did anything about this matter. It never obtained permission, as we did, to have somebody attend such trials. That was a breakthrough, after years of lethargy and apathy by the previous Government. It was agreed that the trial should be secret.  Mr Nazor  agreed that it should be secret. 
He had every choice in the world. He did not have to say that he agreed that the trial should be secret. He could have complained about that.  Senator Greenwood  ought to know that. 
If a man is in court and is asked whether he wants a secret trial and he says 'yes', could he not say 'no'? 
-Mr Nazor agreed to a secret trial. That is the fact of the matter. Whatever interpretation  Senator Rae, Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Chaney  want to put on it is their business, but that is the fact. It is a fact also that  Mr Nazor  pleaded guilty to the charges. Apparently,  Senator Greenwood  likes to write something into this. I am stating the facts. Of course our officer wrote a report on the matter. What does the honourable senator think the officer would do? Does he think that the officer would go to the court proceedings and not report back to the Departmen t? What sort of a childish question is that? The next childish question  Senator Chaney  asks is whether I am going to table the report. Of course I am not going to table it. 
Because you would never do it when you were going on with your nefarious business. How could a department or a ministry ever be run if everything that came into the department was going to be tabled, particularly with the cock-eyed approach the Opposition takes to those sorts of things? 
The question of entry into Australia is one which concerns my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In the particular case to which  Senator Mulvihill  referred, the charge concerned the utterance of a false statement as to the marital status of the applicant and not, as reported in the Press, a forged passport application. With regard to the general question raised by  Senator Mulvihill,  I should point out that maximum attention is given to maintaining the integrity of the Australian passport against forging, unauthorised deletions, additions or other alterations. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government's broad approach is to give generous aid to the post-war reconstruction of the whole of IndoChina. 
) Aid to the Republic of Vietnam, consisting of projects and training, was suspended in April prior to the change of Government. The Government is willing to resume the program but its composition and timing of implementation will depend on the requests of the Provisional Revolutionary 
Government of the Republic of South Vietnam and Australia 's appraisal of those requests. To date the PRG has requested aid from the Australian Government to the value of $A2m to assist in the reconstruction of South Vietnam. A ship loaded with wheat and milk products recently arrived in Saigon. 
3 ) Aid to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, comprising raw sugar, wool, nylon and cotton yarn and educational materials, to the value of approximately $A2m, including freight, was delivered in 1974-75. An English language training program for nineteen students also commenced in 1974- 75. 
Negotiations are currently in hand with the DRV authorities for the supply of additional commodities in 1975- 76. A number of possibilities for project aid are also under consideration. A cattle feasibility study team visited the DRV earlier this year and it is expected that implementation of a cattle and pasture improvement project will result. 
Australia has also contributed $4.7m this year to the multilateral agencies operating in Indo-China, namely the Indo-China Bureau of International Committee of the Red Cross, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 
On 8 October  Senator Sim  asked the following question, without notice: 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs in reply to a question I asked on 1 9 August as to who was exercising real authority in South Vietnam replied that South Vietnam was largely, with some qualifications, administered by military management committees and that no date had been set for the forma) assumption of control throughout the country by the People's Revolutionary Government. On 27 August I asked a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senatethe Minister for Foreign Affairs being absent- and I referred to a reported statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the PRG and the Foreign Minister of North Vietnam had stated that the reunification of Vietnam had now been accomplished and that the official statement was only a matter of procedure. How does the Minister reconcile his reply of 19 August and the reply to my question of 27 August when the two governments- that is the PRG and the Government of North Vietnam- continue to function separately and when on 19 August the Minister acknowledged that the PRG was not exercising authority in South Vietnam? I further ask: Is membership of the World Health Organisation and of the World Meteorological Organisation by the two Vietnams an indication of their separate entities as a government? Is the Palestine Liberation Organisation, which is also recognised by United Nations agencies, also a legitimate government? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As indicated in my answers to  Senator Sim  's questions of 15 July and 27 August, the Provisional Revolutionary Government is widely recognised as the Government of the Republic of South Vietnam. At least 75 countries have now extended recognition to the PRG, and 104 countries recently voted in favour of the admission to the United Nations of the Republic of South Vietnam when the General Assembly called on the Security Council to reconsider its earlier veto. 
The present information available to the Australian Government, and this is not first hand as we are not yet represented in Saigon, is that the administration of South Vietnam remains temporarily in the hands of the authorities referred to in my reply to a question from  Senator Sim  on 19 August. 
Membership of the WMO is open only to States, territories of States and UN Trust Territories. At the last WMO Congress, held in April/May this year, the DRV was admitted to membership and the PRG was accepted as the appropriate representative of South Vietnam (which had been previously admitted). 
WHO membership is open only to States. The DRV was admitted to membership at the World Health Assembly last 
May. The PRG delegation participated fully in the meeting, taking over the seat of South Vietnam. 
In the light of their membership requirements, the acceptance by both the WMO and the WHO of separate Vietnamese membership is at the same time an acceptance of their separate existence as States. 
The Australian Government does not recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation as a government. 
If the honourable senator would make the question a little plainer I could answer it. 
I am not quite sure what the honourable senator is geting at. I ask him to put the question on notice. 
Opposition Senators- Oh! 
Pursuant to section 88 (4) of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974 I present the report of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation for the period 1 February 1975 to 30 June 1975. 
These people are mentioned in  Mr Barron's  book, and I think most people know that.  Mr Kulakov,  head of the Department of Foreign Relations of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Academy of Sciences, and  Mr V.  A. Kouzin,  deputy  chief of the Foreign Relations Department of the U.S.S.R. State Committee for Science and Technology, were to have arrived in Australia this morning, 1 1 November, to represent the U.S.S.R. at a review commission under the Australia-U.S.S.R. Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation. It is well known that the U.S.S.R. employs a significant number of intelligence officers in its various official institutions, particularly those with responsibility for foreign contacts. However much we may deplore this practice, this Government, like all governments which have entered into the normal range of relations with the U.S.S.R., accepts that it is inescapably bound to work from time to time with Soviet officials with intelligence backgrounds. 
Messrs Kulakov and Kouzin hold appointments within USSR Academy of Sciences and State Committee for Science and Technology which are directly relevant to the work of the Review Commission to consider co-operation under the Australia-USSR Science and Technology Agreement. The applications by Messrs Kulakov and Kouzin for visas to visit Australia were naturally considered against the background of what the Government knew of their KGB connections. It was decided to accept their nomination by the Soviet authorities on the basis of their present positions in the Soviet scientific bureaucracy, in which capacity they have paid a number of visits to other Western countries in recent times.  Mr Kulakov  I understand, has been to the United States, France and Austria since the beginning of 1974. I imagine his duties for the USSR Academy of Sciences have also taken him to other countries, but I do not have comprehensive information about his movements.  Mr Kouzin,  of course, was in Australia last year for the initialling of the science agreement between Australia and the USSR. I understand he also visited Canada recently. Their visit of one week's duration was to have been taken up with negotiations and meetings with senior Australian officials. We have just received a message from our Embassy in Moscow that the USSR authorities have informed the Embassy that the delegation to the meeting will not now be coming because of, and I quote from the telegram, 'the situation in Canberra '. 
-I had a talk with these people on, I think, Thursday. They told me that they were making this appeal for $250,000. The needs are immediate in some ways. Unfortunately the position may become worse, particularly in the new year. One of the problems in Timor on the humanitarian side is that the planting of crops has not taken place and that people have consumed some of what would be the seed for crops. 1 certainly commend the appeal. I add my voice to an appeal to the Australian people to be associated with these people in raising money for humanitarian purposes. 
-I gave  Senator Sim  an answer to the latter part of his question the other day to the effect that I did not have any information. I have received a letter from a gentleman in which he states that some money is owed to him by the North Korean Embassy in relation to a deal, and we are looking into that situation. I have had prepared an answer to the honourable senator's question in relation to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and although it is a little long I think perhaps it should be put on the record. The Australian Embassy at Pyongyang was withdrawn on Saturday, 8 November. I am pleased to report that the members of the Embassy staff are now safely in Peking, having met no hindrance in arranging their departure from Pyongyang. Honourable senators will recall that I informed them last week of the extraordinary circumstances of the withdrawal of the staff of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea Embassy from Canberra and that the Australian Government had rejected the sweeping, unsupported and untrue allegations which the Embassy had made in a Note circulated after its departure. The difficulties of the delivery of the 
Australian Government's Note, which the DPRK refused to accept, are set out in a Press release from my Department, dated 6 November. At the conclusion of my answer, I will seek leave to have that Press release incorporated in  Hansard. 
On 6 November, the Australian Charge d 'Affaires,  Mr John  Watson, was called to the Foreign Ministry where the Director of Protocol handed over a DPRK Note in insulting terms. I describe it as a Note, though it lacks the customary forms and courtesies of diplomatic correspondence. This Note makes further allegations of an even more irresponsible nature, mainly directed against the Australian Embassy in Pyongyang. I will not dignify these allegations by rebutting each one of them in turn, but will say only that they are so transparently false that they do the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea no credit and raise serious questions about its willingness or capacity to act in the normally accepted way. This Note was also circulated to all missions in Pyongyang, and it asks other countries to believe that in the space of 7 months a 3-man embassy undertook in a very highly controlled society a pattern of illegal activities which, to use the terminology of the DPRK, 'deranged social order'. I again formally reject the charges which have been made against the Australian Government and its representatives. 
The allegations of the DPRK are at variance with what has actually happened in recent months, lt will be recalled that I visited Pyongyang in June and at that time I had 4 hours of official discussions with the DPRK Foreign Minister, Ho Dam. I also had very many unofficial talks with him. The upshot of these discussions was that we agreed that there were differences between our 2 countries on a number of substantive issues, as well as similarities. The DPRK Foreign Minister said that it was natural that there should be 'serious differences' between us. These differences focused particularly on the status of the ROK- That is, the Republic of South Korea- as the Government of a state and on its right to membership of international organisations and to an equal place with the DPRK in the working out of any arrangements leading to a reduction of tension in the Korean peninsula and leading towards reunification. 
The position of the Australian Government on this matter is firm. It has been expressed publicly, as in my address at this year's United Nations General Assembly on 23 September, just as it has been expressed consistently in private conversations not only with the DPRK but also with the friends of the DPRK. It was, for instance, a point made by the Prime Minister in his discussions during his visit to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in January of this year. This has been an approach which the Australian Government has followed consistently since it first established contacts with representatives of the DPRK. In the negotiations leading up to the agreement for the establishment of diplomatic relations, which it will be recalled took place over a period of 6 months during 1974, the Australian Government made it clear that in opening a mission in Pyongyang it did not accept that the opening of a mission required that the Australian Government should change its policies. We specifically indicated that in recognising the DPRK we did not intend to reduce our relations with the ROK. The Government of the DPRK accepted that in 1974. In the event, and for reasons best known to itself, it was unable to accept it in 1 975. 
The Australian Government continues to believe that there must be dialogue with the 2 Koreas and between them. It regrets that the DPRK has made this more difficult by choosing to withdraw its staff from Canberra and by preventing the Australian Government from maintaining its representation in Pyongyang. We will remain ready to talk to the DPRK in other capitals and in international organisations. Relations between our 2 countries have not been severed. It is hardly necessary to say that the actions of the DPRK have not been conducive to the development of the spirit of conciliation or to making progress towards a peaceful and lasting settlement on the Korean peninsula. It is not consistent with the more outgoing foreign policy on which the DPRK seems to have embarked recently that it should be intolerant of differing views or that it should react to them in such an unreasonable and inflammatory way as it has done in its relations with Australia. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Press statement which was released by my Department in respect of this matter. 
Firstly, I think that may be a question for the Treasurer. The gravamen of the question relates to taxation on extra payments such as overtime. It is a very old and hardy annual. I point out that last week we passed an Income Tax Bill which reduced substantially taxation at those levels. However, I will refer the specific subject to  Mr Daly  or perhaps to  Mr Hayden,  whoever is the appropriate Minister, for an answer. 
-The deregistering of unions is one thing about which the Department of Foreign Affairs does not have to worry. The Indonesian vessel  Garsa Dua  is subject to an indefinite ban by the Firemen and Deckhands Union in Sydney. The ban is being reviewed on a day to day basis. In view of continuing uncertainty about the situation in Australian ports, the Indonesian Government has decided to defer the departure of a ship that had been scheduled to sail from Indonesia for Australia on 9 November. 
At this point it would not be correct to describe Indonesia's action as a suspension of all shipping services. The Government does not favour the imposition of bans on Indonesian ships which can only aggravate difficulties and unsettle normal commercial relations to the disadvantage of Australian as well as Indonesian shipping and commercial interests. The Government hopes that the actions against the Indonesian ships will be shortlived. 
