In view of the recent union action in regard to the installation and repair of business telephones, will the Minister for Post and Telecommunications advise what action has been taken or can be taken to overcome the serious problem which now exists for the installation and repair of many business telephones, not only within the electorate of Macquarie but also throughout Australia? 
Is the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade aware of the concern which exists amongst the New South Wales councils of Bathurst, Orange, Lithgow, Young, Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga in regard to the delay in the commencement of the natural gas spur lines to serve those centres? Is the Minister aware that there are industries which have decentralised to those areas because of the promise made to supply them with natural gas? Is the Minister also aware that because of the commitments made the gas manufacturing plants and distribution systems used by some of the councils have not been updated? What action can the Minister take to ensure that the commitment to supply natural gas to the central west of New South Wales and Wagga Wagga is adhered to? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware that employees in the Australian Telecommunications Commission cannot transfer to the Australian Postal Commission or vice versa and that in order to apply for a position in the other Commission a person must first submit his resignation to the respective Commission in which he is working? If this is correct, does the Minister agree with this provision? What action can he take to correct this apparent injustice? I further ask: Is the Minister aware that a request by me for an answer in regard to a specific problem was made some 5 weeks ago after representations were initiated in October 1975 and that to date no substantive reply has been received? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that New South Wales, with 36.92 per cent of the population, is receiving only 24.3 per cent of the influenza vaccine produced at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories whereas one State with 14.7 per cent of the population is receiving 26.9 per cent of the serum? Will the Minister advise the action he is taking to make equal allocations to the States on the basis of population? 
I was elected to this Parliament on 13 December 1975 to be only the second non-Labor member for Macquarie since 1906. Since 1940 Macquarie has been well served by 2 Labor representatives in the persons of the late Ben Chifley, a former Prime Minister, and for the past quarter of a century by  Mr Tony  Luchetti. I pay tribute today in this House to the former member and his wife for the manner in which they served the people in the electorate of Macquarie. Tony Luchetti had a tremendous personal following and I know it would be the wish of all in this House today who have known and been associated with Tony Luchetti and May Luchetti that they have a happy, long and healthy retirement. 
The electorate of Macquarie, which I now have the honour to represent in this House of Representatives, is an important part of Australia. It embraces the near metropolitan city of Penrith in the east, through the magnificent Blue Mountains to the cities of Lithgow and Bathurst in the west, on the northern side the areas of Rylstone and Kandos and to Oberon on the southern side- a large electorate comprising 80 217 electors. The electorate of Macquarie is expanding. The enrolment figure on 25 October 1969 was 57 823. It has increased to the December figure, as I mentioned, of 80 217 and Macquarie is now one of the largest electorates in New South Wales. 
Having been involved in local government for more than 30 years both as a servant and an alderman it is natural that to me one of the many highlights of this Budget is the recognition by our Government of the needs of local government in the new federalism policy. Local government in 
Australia will receive grants to the States of $140m- an increase of $60m or 75 per cent over the previous Labor Government's allocation. New South Wales is to receive $5 1.3m which is to be allocated to local government by that State's Grants Commission. I trust that the New South Wales Government, in deciding upon the formula for distribution will see that country councils, particularly the all-purpose councils which also control water and sewerage services, will not be penalised and metropolitan councils, whose main function is of a general nature, will not receive more than their share. 
The former Government gave direct grants to local government but these grants were decided by a commission in Canberra and were given for specific purposes. In assessing the grants the Grants Commission did not take into consideration whether a council was rating to the maximum to provide modern amenities for its ratepayers. Under the former Labor Government's system a council could do nothing, keep its rates low, and get as much as a progressive council which was getting things done and rating the ratepayers to the maximum. The councils receiving the grants now given will be free to decide as to how they are to be used. There will be no strings attached. I hope that the councils will use the money granted to keep their rates to a reasonable level. 
Not far from the scene and closely associated with local government is the policy of the Government in respect of growth centres, a concept with which I fully agree and which is so fully tied to decentralisation of industry. Without decentralisation of industry there can be no growth centres. I deplore the fact that not enough effort is being given by growth centre corporations to attracting new industries to their areas. I am naturally pleased that in the Budget the Government has provided allocations to growth centres to enable the corporations to carry on whilst awaiting the report from the interdepartmental committee which has been formed by our Government to report on all growth centres. Whilst the initial grant in the Budget for the Bathurst-Orange Corporation is shown as $2m in fact a further sum of $1.3 5m has been given for capitalised interest on the previous advances to that Corporation. It must be remembered that interest on advances from the Commonwealth for growth centres are deferred for 10 years, thus enabling the authorities to employ funds in their operations they would otherwise have to pay out as interest. 
As a member of the Government Parties ' committee on growth centres I have had the opportunity to visit with other members of that committee not only Bathurst-Orange but also Albury-Wodonga and the McArthur growth centre complexes. I genuinely believe that the Bathurst-Orange Corporation, within the time of its operation and within its fund allocation, has done an outstanding job. The basic aim of growth centres is to provide restraint on the growth of major cities of the Commonwealth by stimulating development in selected decentralised areas. The vital part in the development of growth centres is to have industries where people can work. 
In Macarthur, where large amounts of money had already been spent, we find that the population of one centre alone grew at the rate of 10 000 in 1 975 and another increase of 10 000 in the population is projected for 1976, but there is not enough industry to cater for the increases in population. In fact, I am told that 80 per cent of all workers still commute daily to the Sydney metropolitan area. This is not decentralisation in the true sense but rather an expansion of the metropolis which decentralisation was supposed to hold in check. 
I commend the Bathurst City Council- particularly the Mayor, Alderman John Matthewsfor its activity in obtaining and endeavouring to obtain new industry for Bathurst. Industry is the centre pin from which a successful decentralisation policy must result. It is the duty of all growth centre corporations to extend their activity in this direction. It is also the responsibility of government- whether it be State or Federal- to take the lead and give incentives to industry to establish in country areas. These incentives could take such a form as concessions in income tax, payroll tax, telephone or freight. However, I express concern at the enormous cost of administering growth centres. Too much emphasis has been placed on activities which, I believe, are not and should not be the direct responsibility of growth centre corporations. These matters should be left to traditional government authorities and private enterprise. For example, I draw attention to the appointment of social workers, the erection of houses and units and- if reported correctly in the Press- the erection of youth centres to accommodate youngsters awaiting court appearances. These are matters in which growth centre corporations are becoming involved, and they appear to be duplicating the responsibility of other government agencies. 
The Budget reduction in the coal export levy by 25 per cent from $6.50 to $4.50 a tonne for high quality coal and from $2 to $1.50 a tonne for some lower grade coal is to be commended. The proposal that expenditure on port development will now become an allowable deduction is also to be commended. Both of these measures will assist in the future development and security of the coal mining industry. This industry within the electorate of Macquarie is one industry which is of paramount importance not only to the electorate but also to Australia as a whole. I have the greatest respect for the coal miners. My early life was associated with the industry- my late father was a coalminer. Over the years I have watched the amazing change in the conditions of work resulting from mechanisation and, of course, the improvement in the return to the worker and the mine owner which mechanisation has brought. Whilst the western miners of New South Wales have the highest rate of output per man now in Australia, I exhort the rank and file unionists to take a keen interest in the federation and the unions' policies to ensure that equity and common sense prevails at all times. 
In 1971 on my return from overseas with the New South Wales trade mission on which I represented the western coal mining industry, I reported that I felt that there was a wonderful opportunity to export western steaming coal, provided prices could be maintained and increases in costs kept to a reasonable minimum. Early in February 1976 I was challenged by the western district mining unions to state my position in regard to our Government's stand against full wage indexation- at that time, a proposed increase of 6.4 per cent in wages. I accepted that challenge and here today I endorse that stand. 
I repeat here and now: Inflation will not be beaten unless wages are restrained. If wages are restrained, price restraint will follow, as will increased job opportunities and a reduction in interest charges. Somebody had to make the move and this Government did just that. In fact, it is now interesting to hear the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke-  who also is the head of the Labor Party- and the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  exhorting the same theme of wages restraint. I believe that the majority of the rank and file of the mining unions agree with this concept but, unfortunately, they are being led by certain union leaders for their own particular political gains. Notwithstanding the present conditions prevailing in the industry- namely, growing employment and I emphasise 'growing employment', 5 weeks holiday leave each year, which is 4 weeks annual leave plus 1 week of grouped statutory holidays at Easter, 13 weeks long service leave after 8 years work, 10 days sick pay each year, average production bonus paid for holidays, paid sick days, and compensation up to 6 months- the mining union leaders are still reckless in pursuit of a still bigger share of the cake. Indeed, in some sections of the industry men are now earning up to $30,000 a year. It is not uncommon for mine employees to earn in excess of $20,000 per annumn. I ask honourable members to compare this income with the mere pittance being paid to retired mine workers who do not receive the benefit of this now prosperous industry and who are restricted in receiving social service benefits and local government rate concessions. The conditions of the mine worker has improved but the industry is being recklessly frustrated by unnecessary and costly strikes. The conditions and the continuity of employment of the worker is, therefore, also threatened. 
I should like to detail a few instances which are prejudicing our competitiveness on overseas markets. In June, fitters at the Balmain coal loader banned overtime in support of their union's national claims for better conditions. The result was that the loader worked only 5 days a week. During the past few months the crane drivers have been staging one-day strikes. Only today in the  Sydney Morning Herald  I read an article which stated that 8 ships were waiting in Sydney harbour and Port Kembla harbour to load coal as a 10-week series of rolling strikes by crane operators ends this morning. The Firemen and Deckhands Union has given constant trouble in its militancy and caused stoppages for reasons as wide ranging as Medibank, the environment, higher wages, sympathy with the teachers ' strike and the refusal to handle French ships, following the French nuclear tests. Then we have had railway stoppages caused by strikes by the Australian Railways Union and the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen. When these stoppages occur, nothing moves and coal is stockpiled on the mine properties. As recently as 1 1.50 a.m. on 6 August, the members of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association walked off the job at Port Kembla, leaving a ship partly loaded with coal at the wharf. Another firm had 19 trains programmed for delivery to the loader between midnight on 6 August and midnight on 8 August as part load for another vessel that was to have loaded the following week. The result was that the trains were cancelled and not only was the ship in question delayed but the ships which were to have loaded in the following week were further delayed because of the inability to stockpile at the wharf. 
In passing, it is worthy to note that due to a variety of strikes and industrial disputes, many hundreds of thousands of dollars are paid each year for demurrage on ships waiting to be loaded. This is a disturbing and very dangerous position for the coal mining industry, particularly the western coalfields. I should like to refer to the demurrage charges. The strike to which I referred cost the coal exporters between $5,000 to $ 10,000 a day in charges for the ships while they were in the harbours. This union manoeuvre is rather typical of what is happening at all ports. All coalfields, including the western field, are dependent upon ready access and availability of port facilities. Many disputes seem to be evaluated by trade union officials- if in fact they bother to evaluate them- in selfish and domestic terms. No one seems to look at these wholesale stoppages in terms of the enormous damage done to the economy and, in fact, to the positive erosion of the standard of living of everyone in this country. I do not believe for one minute that the vast majority of the men employed in the industry desire to be involved in useless stoppages. 
From what I have said, let it not be misconstrued that I am anti-coalminer. Indeed, the reverse is the position. I am endeavouring to assist coalminers, and one of the avenues open to me is to ventilate in this Parliament some of the real problems that exist in the industry today. I want to ensure the highest standards of pay and conditions for the mine worker. This can be achieved only by co-operation between the various mining unions and the coal owners. To this end, all parties involved can be assured of my continued interest, co-operation and support because I do not want to see the coal mining industry finish up like the ship building industry. No Budget of the Federal Government, including the Budget now before the House, can be successful unless it has the support of the Australian people. It was Spurgeon in the late 1800s who said: 
Nowadays compromise and indifference rule supreme and instead of solid grit we have putty or wax. 
How true this statement is today, because the greatest danger to the security of our country, both internally and externally, is the apathy of many Australians. If more members of trade unions attended their meetings it would reduce the opportunity for well organised minority groups to manipulate the majority of the members. Probably less than 5 per cent of union members attend their union meetings, thus allowing the militants to increase their penetration and control of the trade union movement. If Australian people remain indifferent and ill-informed of what is happening at home and abroad, the time will surely come when our life and our country will be taken from us. This will be because of our own apathy and stupidity. 
We talk a lot about left wingers, communists, militants and moderates. I will talk for a short while, with extreme simplicity, about Australians. Let us be Australians first and let us have a national union of the Australian people. The dictionary definition of 'union' is 'united', 'agreeing together for mutual benefit', 'the unity of solidarity produced by this'. In a list of words synonymous with the word 'union' is the word 'harmony' which is a very pleasant word. Add the word 'trade' and we have 'trade union'- a movement which, undoubtedly, since its inception, has done a tremendous amount of good and obtained many benefits for its members. But have the unions now become largely counter productive? Certainly, they are counter productive in the context of Australian unity, mutual benefit and harmony. They are certainly counter productive in the search for national productivity. We are non-competitive in a world which is becoming smaller. Therefore, isolation is just not on. Perhaps we could look at the trade union leaders who exist in a very competitive atmosphere and who are subjected to a fair amount of publicity in the media. Is this competition between union leaders the real motivation behind our shocking strike history? Are they saying in effect: 'This I have done for my members, now you beat that, mate'? Is this the yardstick, not whether wages and conditions are really in question? What about pride in the job and dignity? Do these considerations come to the fore or have we developed a handout society, 'the world owes me a living' attitude? On a continuing basis the attitude is: How can we get something for nothing? Have we lost the meaning of the word ' work '? 
Our problems by world standards should be very small. We have only some 13 500 000 people. We do not have the population problems of, say, the United States, the United Kingdom, India and Japan. Surely 13 500 000 people can be motivated and can pull together with a sense of national pride to develop this lucky country and make Australia a place of which we can once again be proud. Let us re-establish confidence and stability for a much needed recovery which has started to happen under this Government. Let us all lift our standards higher and let us aim higher in harmony together as Australian people. 

 Mr Whitlam, in his rather remarkable heyday, tried to tell us the story that all the inflation, instability and unrest were common to all the Western democracies; therefore, Australia was nothing out of the ordinary- a remarkable outlook from the then Prime Minister. Instead of shrugging his shoulders and pronouncing: 'It is inevitable ' he should have been doing something about it. I believe that, under this Government, we are on the road to recovery and the Budget now before the House will accelerate that recovery. In conclusion, I pay full tribute to our Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and his wife for their leadership. They have my loyalty in the difficult times which we have encountered and will encounter unless we defeat inflation. I pledge myself to continue to work for all the electors of Macquarie and look forward with keen anticipation to serving the Parliament of Australia for many years to come. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to Press reports indicating that the  Deputy  Prime Minister supports devaluation of the Australian dollar? Can the Prime Minister say whether there has been any shift in government policy on devaluation? 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd in Melbourne requires additional employees for its plant? Is he also aware that that firm is unable to meet its labour requirements, even though the vacancies have been extensively advertised? Will the Minister advise the House what assistance can be given to this company and other employers of labour which want additional employees and which cannot satisfy their requirements? 
-Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether new hospital agreements with the States in respect of the cost sharing of net operating costs of recognised hospitals have been concluded, bearing in mind that the previous agreements with the States were found to be invalid? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) On what basis does the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission issue invitations to open new facilities. 
Why do the plaques commemorating the opening of a facility contain names additional to those of the person opening that facility and the name of the local Federal member. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of mischievous speculation in the Press and a feeling amongst certain members of the community that the Government proposes to disband or reduce symphony orchestras supported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Is he also aware that before a recital by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra on 7 November a member of that orchestra, from the stage, criticised the Government and asked all members of the audience to sign a petition condemning the Government for its action? Can the Minister add anything further to his recent Press release to assure the community that this speculation is completely false? 
-I address my question to the Treasurer. What action has been taken by the Reserve Bank of Australia over the past few days in setting the interest rates of government securities following the Treasurer's announcement last Sunday night? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He will be aware of the difficulties currently facing people seeking employment while at the same time employers are frequently finding difficulty in filling jobs. Will the Minister consider providing an opportunity for people to discuss these problems with Commonwealth Employment Service staff in an atmosphere free from immediate work pressures? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. What has the Government done since coming to office to improve equality of opportunity and quality of life for women. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the proposal to build a coal loader at 
Botany Bay? If he is, is there any way he can assist in having a decision made? 
My question is to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it permissible for public telephones to be installed on private property by Telecom at its cost? If the answer is no, will the Minister consider giving permission for such installations when application for a public telephone is made by a property owner, particularly in areas where vandalism continually renders adjoining public telephones inoperable? 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of complaints being received of interference with television reception from citizen band radio? Will the Minister advise the House what action he is taking in this matter? 
-On behalf of the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee, I have the honour to present the Fourteenth Report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) How many private and public telephones are currently in service within that part of the city of Penrith within the borders of the electoral division of Macquarie: 
as an absolute number; and 
as a proportion of the population. 
What is the comparable proportion for the metropolitan area of Sydney as a whole. 
How many private and public telephones is it estimated will be installed in the area referred to in part ( 1 ) during 1976-77, and will these figures affect the ratios referred to in that part. 
How many applications for private telephones are held, and what is the delay in installation. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a statement suggesting that two companies have been advised to withdraw funds from Australia? Is the Prime Minister in a position to comment on the accuracy of this statement? 
It would be fair to say that there are many primary and secondary schools in the electorate of Macquarie and throughout Australia that are in need of repair, expansion or rebuilding and therefore I would have hoped that Budget funds for schools would have been greatly increased. However, I can understand that this year has to be a year of consolidation and review rather than a year of any large growth in the funding of education. But in this year of consolidation and review all sections of our education system should practise moderation and restraint in spending, not the least within universities and colleges of advanced education. 
For many years, in fact well before I became a member of this House, I felt that universities and colleges of advanced education were advancing too quickly. The whole attitude of these institutions was expansion with no apparent regard to costs. If we look back to 1950 we find that there were only seven universities and no colleges of advanced education. Today there are 19 universities and 83 colleges of advanced educationa total of 102 institutions. In 1950 there were 30,000 students attending such institutions but today there are almost 300,000. To look after these students there are more than 50,000 teachers, administrators and research staff. This Government's contribution- in effect, the taxpayers' contribution- is some $ 1,307m. 
Today colleges of advanced education alone are costing $53 7m in Commonwealth funds whereas in 1966-67, the first year in which the Commonwealth became involved, only $6.2m was provided. That has been a dramatic increase of $53 lm in just ten years. 
When we arrive at a stage when the  chairman  of a college of advanced education suggests that perhaps it is time for some colleges to close then lt is time for this Government and the new Tertiary Education Commission to look closely at what is happening in the tertiary field. In discussing the tertiary field I would leave technical education out of consideration because it is a recognised fact that technical colleges need considerably more funds for expansion in order that we may train more carpenters, plumbers, electricians, motor mechanics and other associated tradesmen of which there is such a shortage in Australia today. I refer to the earlier comment that some colleges of advanced education should be closed. Duplication in courses is taking place throughout New South Wales. In 1976 some 17,601 students were undergoing teacher education but they were spread over 21 colleges. 
In some cases these colleges have only parttime students. One college is providing teacher training for only 164 students and another for 29 students. Courses for commercial and business studies are spread over eight colleges, some of which have only small enrolments. People should have the opportunity to undertake courses of study to further their education. However I am afraid that many courses which have been established at colleges of advanced education should have been left to universities or technical colleges. If a plan of rationalisation is decided upon, some students may have to return to correspondence courses, but I am sure there are many who in the past and today are finding this manner of education quite satisfactory. But it is good to know that there are those in the education field who are at last realising what the position is. On 23 September last the  Chairman  of the Association of Principal Officers of Regional Colleges of Advanced Education in a letter to Professor Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Tertiary Education Commission, said: 
At a recently held meeting of this Association, the matter of the proliferation of external courses in higher education was discussed. As our membership extends over four states, it became apparent that expansion and duplication of courses was occurring well across state borders. It seemed evident that these extensions of activities were coming from established institutions experienced in the area of external courses as well as a quite new university. 
The impression conveyed to us gave little hint that any effective rationalisation or co-ordination was taking place between institutions concerned. 
It is our concerned desire to draw the Commission's attention to these activities. We also wish to invite the Commission to convene a meeting of senior executives of universities and colleges of advanced education which are interacting in the offering of external courses. This meeting would need also to include representation from the respective co-ordinating authorities of states. 
We consider the matter to be one of extreme urgency arm one that should not wait for a public inquiry. 
I have had compiled details by field of study of students in New South Wales who are enrolled in colleges of advanced education to emphasise the area where I believe duplication is taking place. I seek leave to have this schedule incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710202_76_0.jpg"></graphic>

-At the time the comment of change in colleges of advanced education was made, on 6 May last, the  Chairman  of the Higher Education Commission of New South Wales had this to say:  we have gathered ... at a time when extraordinary changes are to be seen in post secondary education in particular. 
We are meeting at a time which is effectively the close of an era. It's been a very short era and those of us who were involved in its beginning, barely ten or twelve years ago, can hardly believe that the cycle of change has been so rapid in post secondary education. 
The  Chairman  further said: 
In those heady days just after the war there was an unthinking commitment on the part of all of us to more education. It seemed that that was inevitably the way ahead. We were going to develop this country of ours through education and many of us approached it with a fervour that could only be described as religious. Education was going to be the key that would unlock all of the development for our country into the future years. 
However, the education industry as it is now called, and I don't think it's an unfair epithet to apply to it, has overreached itself. 
Like many another industry throughout the years it has outstripped its resources and like many a social industry it has been so successful in promoting its wares to the general community that it has led the community to a level of sophistication in their educational expectations that the crash when it comes, when the industry boom bursts, is all the more painful and hard. 
So there is now throughout our community at official and suburban level, as it were at provincial level, an enormous questioning of the advantages of education viewed in relation to the costs of providing the education. 
We look back now, a little wryly, at some of the plans that were laid at about the time when Mitchell was founded. These were the heydays for the boffins. All the backroom planners and statisticians had a marvellous time in laying out their forward plans for the growth, always the growth, mark you, the growth and expansion of education, and as I heard it put the other day, so wrong have some of the projections and predictions been in education that the Irish are now telling jokes about the planners. 
We need universities and we need colleges of advanced education. But I do not believe we need them at the expense of primary and secondary schools. Kindergartens and primary schools, I am convinced, need more money for teachers to give a proper groundwork for the young students. Primary and secondary schools need more money for buildings. When I look at schools like Penrith High School, Oberon Central School and Kandos Primary and Secondary Schools within the electorate of Macquarie, it hurts me to think of what is being spent and wasted in the tertiary field. At Oberon Central School during the last winter the temperature in one room was down to 4 degrees even though that room had a gas heater. This school is operating in some 14 separate buildings with no coverways between them. I do not believe that this is what we want for our children but neither do we want to see grand buildings at colleges of advanced education or universities when young children are suffering. My thoughts have been expressed to many teachers and parents and citizens associations, and above all to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I will do what I can to see that there is some review of tertiary education spending thus providing money for where it is urgently needed. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of continued delays in the delivery of mail within New South Wales? Is the Minister also aware that mail being sent by messenger is not being received for periods of up to five days, when the normal delivery period for such special deliveries has been one day? What action can the Minister take in this matter? 
-On behalf of the  chairman  of the Publications Committee, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  I present the Sixteenth Report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members. 
Report-by leave-adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: What action has been taken to alleviate complaints that are being received from television viewers and individuals using other forms of radio communication, of interference allegedly caused by some- I repeat, some- citizen band radio operators? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns developments in the Horn of Africa. Will the Minister tell the House what is the Government 's attitude to the removal of Somali forces from the Ogaden? What are the prospects for a ceasefire? Is there any prospect for the withdrawal of Soviet and Cuban military personnel? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of complaints still being received in respect of a minority of citizen band radio users, will the Minister advise when extra staff will be engaged to handle interference problems, as it is obvious that some CB operators refuse to co-operate with their neighbours, let alone with the Government? Due to the limited powers available to the inspectors, when might legislation be introduced to give greater powers to control the problems which exist? 
Is the Minister for Trade and Resources satisfied with Australia's present capacity to meet its current and potential coal export orders? If not, where do the deficiencies exist? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I refer to the report by the Senate Committee of Privileges on the appropriate means of ensuring the security of Parliament House. Have you,  Mr Speaker,  with the  President  of the Senate given any thought to the recommendation in that report that members of Parliament should wear identification discs? 
Can the Prime Minister provide information for the House concerning the Special Youth Employment Training Program? Can he advise the House when the program was introduced and how many people have been assisted by it? 
-When does the Minister for National Development expect to announce the flood mitigation program for New South Wales? Is it a fact that the New South Wales Government has delayed in accepting responsibility for setting priorities in projects in the State? Finally, when does the Minister expect that he will be in a position to announce the five-year water resources program? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to any recent surveys of the attitudes of employees to matters which are of vital concern to them? 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to support the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill 1978 and the Superannuation Amendment Bill 1978. I was very surprised to hear what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  had to say in his few remarks. He said that this Government was dismantling the 1973 legislation and that this Government obviously disagreed with the concept of maternity leave. Those two statements are far from the truth. I would have thought that he would have read what was said in 1973 by the then Minister for Labour and by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  when he replied to the second reading speech. At times the attitude of the honourable member for Port Adelaide amazes me because anyone would think that the money that is being spent is our money. It is not; it is money that belongs to the Australian people, the taxpayers. This Government, as every government, has a responsibility to see that that money is spent wisely. 
I believe it is regrettable that amendments to the 1973 Act are necessary. However, people being as they are have stretched the provisions of those Acts to such an extent that some changes are not only desirable but also necessary. The maternity leave Bill is designed, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said in his second reading speech, to reduce the possibility of exploitation and, importantly, to reduce the overall cost to the Australian taxpayer. Unfortunately, it is still possible even with these amendments for some exploitation to occur but of this I will speak later. The first point I make- and this should be remembered by the honourable member for Port Adelaide- provision for maternity leave and paid benefits for public servants was not introduced by a Labor government but by a Liberal government in 1966. In 1973, the current maternity leave Act was introduced by the then Labor Government. The Minister for Labour at that time, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  in his second reading speech said: 
The proposed legislation will entitle female officers and employees to at least 12 weeks' maternity leave on full pay. This will apply irrespective of whether they were pregnant or not when first employed by the Government. The Bill provides that maternity leave shall commence at least 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement and shall continue for at least 6 weeks after the actual date of confinement. If the mother wishes, leave may be granted up to a total of 52 weeks. A minimum of 1 2 weeks is available on full pay. 
I ask honourable members to remember the words 'a minimum of 12 weeks'. The speech continued: 
For the balance of her leave the mother will be on leave without pay, although if she wishes, she may use accrued sick leave, recreation leave and furlough credits. It also provides that each permanent officer proceeding on leave of absence for maternity purposes must be re-employed if she wishes at the end of her period of leave in her former position or in a position at a level as near as possible to the position held by her at the commencement of her maternity leave. 
The former Minister went on to say: 
Temporary employees returning from maternity leave will resume their former employment. If the work is no longer available they will be given preference for employment over any other person seeking temporary employment. The Bill also makes provision for an officer or employee who is the father or a person accepting responsibility for the care and maintenance of the child to take up to 1 week's leave with pay, around the time of the birth of a child where he requires the leave to take care of the mother of a child or of a child. These benefits will apply retrospectively from 1 January 1973. 
The 1973 Bill extended considerably the maternity leave benefits which were available at that time- as I said, they were brought in by a Liberal Government- to government employees under section 545 of the Public Service Act. The Liberal-Country Party Opposition at that time did not oppose the Bill but quite rightly made certain qualifying statements. The honourable member for Flinders, when speaking for the then Opposition when these Bills were before the House, in 1973 said: 
The Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill 1973 in essence provides for 12 weeks' maternity leave on full pay for all female Commonwealth public servants. It also provides for one week's paternity leave for all male Commonwealth public servants. The terms of the Bill emanate, in the first instance, from the Federal platform of the Australian Labor Party and, more recently, from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the Bill it must emphasise that the Government, in its introduction of the Bill, used the terms of Convention No. 103 of the International Labour Organisation in a misleading manner. 
The honourable member for Flinders also stated: 
The Bill leaves scope for abuse in that it allows for the possibility of women joining the Commonwealth Public Service when pregnant in order to take advantage of the very considerable concessions which are proposed in this legislation. The Opposition believes that this situation will require careful examination by the Government on the basis of experience gained in the administration of the Act. The Bill typifies the modus operandi of a government which is committed to supporting employee benefits which entail the addition of $6,000m to the national wages and salaries bill but which appears totally incapable of submitting to the national Parliament a detailed plan of implementation incorporating clearly defined priorities. 
I said earlier that it was regrettable that the amendments now before the House were necessary. But there were women who joined the Public 
Service when pregnant for the sole purpose of availing themselves of the full and total provisions of the 1973 Act but who subsequently left the employ of the Public Service. A typical example is one woman who availed herself of the full and total provisions of the 1973 Act. Having availed herself of the 12 weeks' maternity leave on full pay, she then spent the remaining 40 weeks on paid sick leave and recreation leave. 
-Forty weeks. During that time this person was able to lead a normal life. She played sport each week and was paid week by week. At the end of the 52 weeks, this woman submitted her resignation and was paid accrued annual holidays and received superannuation benefits for a period in which she did not work one day. That was not a fair attitude to take. That type of attitude is responsible for the amendments now before the House. I have been told- it is interesting to note this-that 57 per cent of women who proceeded on maternity leave did not return to their place of employment. I believe that the contents of the amending legislation are fair to all. The Government believes that the maternity leave benefits are an integral part of the equal employment opportunity policy it follows in relation to its own employees. I am sorry that the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that this Government was discriminating against women because no such statement is inferred in the Minister's second reading speech. The Minister said: 
Without such provisions, a number of women with needed skills and experiences would be lost to the public sector. Proper maternity leave provisions ensure that women, in whom the Government has made a considerable investment in terms of training and development of expertise, are afforded employment protection by being able to continue in Commonwealth employment while also raising a family. 
In summary, the major changes proposed by the Bill are the deletion of paternity leave; the introduction of a qualifying period of one year before paid maternity leave is available although leave provisions, without pay, will continue to apply in the first year of service; removal of automatic access to sick leave, although sick leave will still be available under normal conditions, and standardisation of the amount of payment for leave for maternity purposes at 12 weeks' pay. I believe that the provision of paternity leave benefits is unnecessary. It would be fair to say that when children were born into the families of honourable members in this House those honourable members were able to take recreation leave or leave without pay from their employment and had the opportunity to assist in the home. This is what happens in private enterprise and I believe it will continue to happen in the future. 
The introduction of a 12-month qualifying period also is necessary before paid maternity leave is available. The purpose of this Bill is to deny the benefits of paid leave in future to anyone who might seek to enter Commonwealth employment for the primary purpose of obtaining maternity leave benefits. Removal of automatic access to sick leave is also essential for the reasons given in the example I cited. However, sick leave is available under normal conditions, that is on presentation of a doctor's certificate. I hope that exploitation in this area will not occur because it is an area in which problems could be encountered. I hope that' both the medical profession and female employees do not exploit this provision and thus any further amendment to the legislation will be avoided. The employees involved must remember that they still will be able to draw on their accrued recreation leave and long service leave during the unpaid period of their maternity leave which can still be taken for a period of up to 52 weeks. 
The standardisation of 12 weeks maternity leave is also necessary because at present, prior to this legislation coming into operation, staff can receive more than 12 weeks pay if the actual date of birth of the child is later than the expected date. Another important amendment is that any period of maternity leave without pay will not count as service for any purpose although it will not break the continuity of employment. Under present provisions a person may be on unpaid maternity leave for 40 weeks and that period would count as service for all purposes, that is for holidays, sick leave and superannuation benefits. 
I think it should be remembered that existing employees who have been granted maternity or paternity leave before the commencement date of the legislation, or who are absent on such leave on that day, will not be affected by the legislation. In addition, staff who are eligible for the granting of maternity or paternity leave under the existing provisions and who make application to their leave officers before 1 January 1979 will retain their eligibility for such leave. I support this Bill and also the Superannuation Amendment Bill which is introduced because of the Maternity Leave Bill. 
-I am pleased to inform the House that  I  have been elected as Chairman of the Publications Committee. As such,  I  present the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Will the Prime Minister advise the House of any new opportunities that he sees for Australian exports? In particular, has the Prime Minister any information available in respect of television sets which recently have been exported from Australia to Hong Kong? 
I present the sixth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications is aware of the number of times I have contacted him in regard to the extension of the Sydney metropolitan telephone zone to include the electorate of Macquarie. I ask: Why is it that Telecom Australia has not yet supplied him with the report on this matter that had been promised to be in his hands by 30 June 1978? As other dates have since been mentioned- September 1978; by the end of 1978; early 1979; the latest being 30 March 1979- will the Minister advise the House what action he will take if the report is not in his hands by 30 March 1979? 
I present the seventh report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Publications, sitting in conference with the Senate Standing Committee on Publications. Copies of the report will be circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Does the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs recall reports in December 1978 regarding his discussions with the Yugoslav Government about problems associated with dual citizenship? Can the Minister advise whether there has been any progress in this matter? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 
-Yes I do, by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage). 
It has been brought to my notice that the Chief Justice of New South Wales,  Sir Laurence  Street, has called a letter written by me to him - 
I will start again. It has been brought to my notice that the Chief Justice of New South Wales,  Sir Laurence  Street, has called a letter written by me to him a grave impropriety. The letter was written to testify publicly as to my high regard for  Mr Vincent  Francis Gordon of Bathurst, which incidentally is not in the electorate of Macquarie. The letter was written without  Mr Gordon's  knowledge and was similar to many I have written as Mayor of Lithgow and as the member for Macquarie. It was certainly not my intention in any way to embarrass the Chief Justice and I have written separately to him to extend my apologies. I stand by the comments I made in my letter to the Chief Justice and regret that his receipt of it should have proved in any way embarrassing. Indeed, I am very pleased in this place again to reiterate my respect for  Mr and Mrs Gordon  and would hope that note can be taken of their community standing in consideration of penalties recently imposed on  Mr Gordon. 
I present the eighth report of the Publications Committee sitting in Conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report will be circulated to honourable members. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware of a recent statement by an Opposition shadow Minister that young people in receipt of unemployment benefit should be allowed to go surfing so that job vacancies can be filled by 40-year-olds? Does the work test allow for the situation proposed by the honourable member for Prospect to occur, that is, that people who do not want to work need not do so but may continue to receive unemployment benefit? 
I present the ninth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
House adjourned at 5 p.m. until Tuesday, 21 August next at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall fix an alternative day or hour of meeting or, in the incapacity or absence from Australia of  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees may fix an alternative day or hour, such alternative day or hour of meeting to be notified by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House. 
I present the tenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
The Minister for Administrative Services will recall the recent question by the honourable member for Lillee concerning the funding of political parties. In view of the Minister's reply to that question that this Government is most unlikely ever to consider public funding, does the Government intend to request private donors such as companies and trade unions to declare their donations? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Publications I present the Committee's report relating to annual reports of Commonwealth departments and statutory authorities, together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
This inquiry was undertaken because of concern at a number of issues relating to annual reports- for example, the fact that some departments did not produce an annual report at all, the lateness of others, the extravagance of several and the difficulties apparent in the production of reports. In all 103 submissions were received. These came from a large number of departments and authorities, from librarians and other users of annual reports, from Professor Olsson of the Australian Institute of Management, from the Australian Government Publishing Service and from the Auditor-General's Office. Evidence was then heard from a representative group of those who had made submissions. In addition the Committee circulated a questionnaire to senators and members to obtain their views on annual reports. These proved of great assistance. 
The Committee's principal conclusion is that all Commonwealth departments and statutory authorities should be required to submit annual reports. These are important in principle because their presentation to the Parliament demonstrates the accountability of departments and authorities to the Parliament, and through it to the community. They are important in a practical sense because of the information they provide to senators and members and to interested people in the community. Honourable members will be aware that the first annual report of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet was tabled on 23 August. The Committee is encouraged by this evidence of the Government's recognition of the necessity of annual reports. 
The Committee has made a number of recommendations directed towards making annual reports more useful, more timely and more economical. I do not propose to comment on the recommendations in detail at this stage other than to say that the two areas of greatest concern to the Committee were the problem of delays in the tabling of reports and the question of appropriate standards of production. The Committee appreciates that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has requested that production standards should be as economical as possible. It is disappointing that this request has not been fully complied with. In the opinion of the Committee the annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for 1977-78 and that of the 
Pipeline Authority for 1976-77 are examples of unnecessarily expensive productions. The Committee does, however, recognise that authorities which are in active competition in the market place are justified in using prestige standards of production. 
Turning to the question of delays, I noticed in the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill presented on 28 August that the Commission's annual report must be prepared not later than 31 October each year. Whilst my Committee would like reports a little earlier, the Government must be commended for defining a time limit in this legislation. To the best of my knowledge this is a first and I commend the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for setting this deadline and giving it the force of law. The Committee is confident that this report contains guidelines which will help those charged with the responsibility of producing annual reports to know what the Parliament expects of them. In conclusion, I pay tribute to the members of the Committee for the time they spent in the hearing of this inquiry. 
-I do. 
-On 28 August the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  referred in the adjournment debate to a Macquarie Federal Electorate Conference and a barbecue. He said that 'the Liberal member for Macquarie,  Mr Reg  Gillard, was another guest of honour'. On 29 August the honourable member for Melbourne 
Ports  (Mr Holding)  made a further reference. He said that the 'so-called charge d'affaires of the so-called Croatian embassy was entertained on an official basis by Liberal parliamentarians including the Federal member for Macquarie'. On 30 August the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made further reference to the effect that the so-called charge d'affaires was given an official welcome by the Macquarie electorate conference of the Liberal Party. 
However, the final misrepresentation was made last Thursday, 13 September, by the honourable member for Chifley in a speech in the adjournment debate when, in referring to articles from a Croatian newspaper, he said: 
These articles referred to a barbecue which had been organised by the Macquarie and Chifley Federal Councils of the Liberal Party of which the main organiser, of course, was the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard ). 
Of course, the honourable member for Chifley was wrong once again. Firstly, I was overseas, in China and Japan, as a representative of this Government when the decision was made to invite  Mr Despoja.  I defend the right of my Federal Electorate Conference or any Federal electorate conference to invite whom it sees fit to be a guest  speaker.  Since that date a member of the Greek community has been guest  speaker  at a Macquarie federal conference and representatives of other ethnic groups will be invited in the future. 
On 29 August the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that  Mr Despoja  was entertained by Liberal parliamentarians including the Federal member for Macquarie.  Mr Speaker,  I was the only member of Federal Parliament present. Due to the manner in which  Mr Despoja  was invited and due to my concern, I would like to quote from a letter dated 1 March. It was handed to Alderman  Dr Eileen  Cammack on 2 March, prior to the conference and barbecue. A copy of this letter was given to Alderman  Dr Cammack  to hand to  Mr Taylor,  the Liberal Federal  President  of the Chifley conference. That letter reads: 
-May I read the last paragraph, which is only short? 
-Then I will ask for leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard.  The last paragraph of the letter reads: 
In accepting your kind invitation I am under an obligation to regard  Mr Despoja's  attendance at the Barbecue and Social as being only in his capacity as a private citizen. 
I trust that that is the end of the matter. I ask that the whole letter be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 1 March 1979 

 Mrs E. Cammack  President  Macquarie Federal Electorate Conference 30 Mulgoa Road Penrith 2750 
Dear  Mrs Cammack 
I am grateful for your invitation to me to attend as a guest of honour, the Macquarie and Chifley Federal Electorate Conferences' Barbecue and Social to be held on 4 March 1979. 
I am bound, however, as the Member for Macquarie and a member of the Government to express my strong reservations over the decision to invite  Mr Mario  Despoja in his capacity as the self-styled 'Charge d 'Affaires' of the socalled ' Croatian Embassy ' as the other guest of honour at the Barbecue and Social. 
I should stress at this point that I mean no criticism of  Mr Despoja  as a private citizen or as a member of a particular ethnic group. 
I should also make it clear that it is not the Government's wish to discriminate against the Croatian community or to stop, or hinder members of that community forming groups and clubs, where these are not aimed at a state or government with which Australia has normal diplomatic relations. 
Let me briefly outline the Government's position as regards the 'Croatian Embassy'. Australia is a party to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. That Convention imposes on Australia distinct and binding obligations regarding any diplomatic mission accredited to this country. The so-called 'Croatian Embassy' has thrown doubt on Australia's ability and willingness to protect the rights guaranteed by the Geneva Convention. 
The Government respects the sovereignty of individual nations. It cannot therefore view casually an attempt to establish and maintain an organisation which is openly dedicated to the destruction of a friendly state. Such an organisation impedes the correct and orderly conduct of 
Australia's international relations and is damaging to the national interest. 
If the Government were to allow the precedent set by the Croatian Embassy' to go unnoticed we could be faced with a rash of so-called Embassies representing other minority groups with a grudge against a particular government. 
Further, it has been a longstanding policy of Australian governments to oppose the importation into Australia of alien political and racial feuds. The Government is particularly concerned about the aggravation of tension between certain ethnic groups. 
Accordingly the Government has an obligation through the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act 1978, to institute legal proceedings for the closure of the 'Croatian Embassy'. 
In accepting your kind invitation I am under an obligation to regard  Mr Despoja's  attendance at the Barbecue and Social as being only in his capacity as a private citizen. 
Yours sincerely 
GILLARD, M.P. Member for Macquarie 
-Can the Minister for National Development advise the House what effect the Government's oil pricing policy has had on Australia 's oil reserves? 
I present the 11th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the decision by Telecom Australia to implement Access 80 as from 1 May 1980. Will the 
Minister consider the practicability of the inclusion of all telephone numbers covered by Access 80 in metropolitan telephone directories? 
I present the 12th report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
