I seek leave to give notice of motion. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government aware of the purposes sought to be achieved by a so-called Vietnam moratorium being arranged for April of this year by numerous left wing groups in Australia? Is it true that the overall objective is to endeavour to weaken the resolution of the Australian Government and the Australian people in their determination that the Communist directed North Vietnamese and Vietcong aggression should not be seen to succeed in South Vietnam? Is it true also that some of the groups supporting the moratorium have expressly refused to say that the moratorium will be conducted without violence? If so, will the Government, take positive steps to inform and to keep informed the Parliament, the Press and the people of the real purposes of this moratorium and of the violent means and tactics which prior to the event some people are publicly indicating that they are not prepared to reject? 
I ask the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities whether the recent report of the Academy of Science on the crown of thorns starfish problem on the Great Barrier Reef made any recommendations which would be to the advantage of the tourist industry, particularly as it appertains to the Great Barrier Reef. 
I ask for leave to make a statement in connection with a notice of motion I wish to give. 
I move: 
That Notice of Motion No. 1 - Business of the Senate - standing inmy name be postponed until Thursday next, 19 March 1970. 
It has been decided to postpone this notice of motion on the understanding that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would like more time to consider his position. I point out, however, that as the notice of motion was first given in September last year the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is anxious that this matter be dealt with before the Senate goes into recess for Easter and will not delay the notice of motion any further. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - As  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I would like to say that what the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  has said is correct; that is, that he had discussions with me, and the Government intends to introduce legislation to take the place of this regulation. The Leader of the Government is also correct when he says that this has been a principle which has been worked upon for a number of years. Of course, principles are established but sometimes fresh thinking on the matter may change one's view point. But the statements made by  Senator Anderson  are correct. 
The point brought forward by  Senator Murphy  has struck a new note and new thinking so far as the Committee is concerned. 1 think the very valid point he took up and one that probably has not received attention from myself and other members of the Committee is that whilst the regulation is there moneys can be expended. The Committee has given notice that it thinks the particular regulation should be disallowed. That is a very important point. I think it is a point of which the Committee will, no doubt, take cognisance and to which it will give due consideration in the future. The Committee is concerned with the point that it should take action irrespective of what flows. The purpose of the Committee is to consider these regulations and the matter of motions coming forward for disallowance. I see merit in the points brought forth by  Senator Murphy  and I think they are worthy of consideration by the Committee. 1 think most people recognise that the Committee has been vigilant in its duty but, of course, the more minds that come to this matter of work and thinking the more ideas and thoughts the Committee gets. As  Chairman  of the Committee I certainly will bring this matter before it to see whether this principle will be maintained or whether the Committee will adopt the new sense of thinking as expressed by  Senator Murphy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I am sorry that I was not able this morning to move that the debate be adjourned. At my request.  Senator Greenwood  acted on behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. It is most unfortunate that the Committee, which usually holds a meeting on a Thursday morning, was not able to do so today. The Committee is  a  Committee of the Senate, comprising members of the various Parties. The Opposition had called a meeting, which made is impossible to have the usual Thursday morning meeting of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I have been Chairman of the Committee for a record period now. It is a Standing Committee of The Parliament. To my knowledge, during my time as  a  member, the Committee has never considered matters on a Party political basis. In fairness to all members of the Committee, they have operated according to the very highest parliamentary tradition that the Parliament runs the country, not the Executive or civil servants by means of regulations and ordinances. I shall refer to various aspects of the Committee's work. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  mentioned that something is being done in this instance. The Committee thinks that this should be done by legislation.  Senator Byrne  mentioned other aspects of the Committee's work. He referred to the rights and liberties of individuals and civilians. Each department comes under the scrutiny of the Committee, which decides either to move for the disallowance of a regulation or to let it stand. In this case the Committee thought that the matter should be rectified by legislation. This is a very important aspect of our deliberations. We know that certain people in departments and probably certain Ministers like to do things without having their actions under close parliamentary .surveillance. This happens. It is a human characteristic. Parliament should ensure that certain things are done by the Parliament. Honourable senators will remember that parliamentary allowances, allowances for judges and allowances for certain civil servants are fixed by Parliament. For some reason, allowances for the armed Services, under the Minister for Defence, are fixed by regulation. 
I think that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been responsible for this new thinking on the matter. To my way of thinking, he is guilty of contempt of the Committee. I am quite sure that he was contemptuous of the Committee because of the delay. I felt rather awkward about moving for the adjournment of the debate. In fairness to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I know that he has leaned over backwards to try to get the matter adjusted by the Minister concerned. No blame attaches to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 think that the Minister for Defence has been contemptuous of the Committee. To my way of thinking, this is a very serious matter from the point of view of the work of the Committee. If it had not been for the delay, probably this criticism would never have been levelled.  Senator Murphy  has given me a new thought so far as the work of the Committee is concerned. I believe in keeping an open mind in relation to matters of this nature. There is no question about it.  Senator Murphy  has put into my mind this thought: If a regulation is wrong, it is wrong. If the Committee makes a judgment that a regulation is wrong, we should disallow it. 
Yes, the Committee should recommend its disallowance. If it is wrong, there is no reason why we should carry it over with a series of adjournments or postponements. 
Yes. In some cases the Committe might think that a regulation was unjust and unfair to the rights and liberties of individuals. The regulation might cause the Committee to believe that it should be abolished immediately.  Senator Murphy's  statement has given me, as an individual, a new thought. 
When we debated this matter prior to the the recess, I said that we should adjourn the matter because the Leader of the Government would talk to the Minister concerned to ensure that something would be done to alleviate the present situation. Legislation has been introduced in the other place. Not having had a meeting today and having adjourned the debate for such a long period of time, as  Chairman  of the Committee I would not be prepared to vote that there be a postponement on this occasion. 1 want to make it quite clear that having given my word and not having a meeting of the Committee this morning, where I, as  Chairman,  could move anything to the contrary, I cannot support the motion for postponement. But I want to make it quite clear that I believe the matters which have been raised by  Senator Murphy,  regarding the Committee's work in this direction, have given the Committee something new to think about. I think that he is entirely correct. 
 Senator Greenwood,  on my behalf, has moved that consideration be postponed for a further week. I am supporting the motion for the postponement of the matter, because I know that the Leader of the Government in the Senate has done a lot of work on this matter, but I am letting the Senate know that as a member of the Committee I think that  Senator Murphy  has given us something to think about in the future, so far as the working of the 
Committee is concerned. 1 know that sometimes people outside have tried to disparage the working of the Committee. I know that in this Parliament the Committee's work is considered very highly. But I know that in certain places outside the Parliament it has been stated that the Committee does not disallow many regulations. The reason for this is because of the co-operation which we have given to the Government on certain occasions. However, as I have said, I think that this debate will be good for the future working of the Committee. I do not take a party line on this Committee, because once the members of the Committee take a party line the Committee's work is destroyed. As I have said, I know that Government supporters and in particular members of the Opposition on the Committee have never taken a party line during the period for which I have been a member of the Committee. 
I present the Twenty-ninth Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances on the Amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1969, No. 138, together with minutes of evidence and move: 
That the Report and minutes of evidence be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. On what basis does he form his judgment and opinion that a person who buys and sells shares on the slock exchange would not be entitled to serve or should not serve on the Select Committee which is to deal with activities of the stock exchange? In the light of the view he has expressed, how docs he justify the fact that parliamentarians holding primary producing properties very often receive the benefit of legislation granting them taxation concessions far transcending anything available to persons dealing on the stock exchange? 
On what basis was his opinion formed? How does he justify the situation of parliamentarians holding properties used in primary industry who secure concessions through the Parliament? 
1 move: 
The regulations 8 and 12 of the amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1969, No. 13S, and made under the Naval Defence Act 1910-1968, be disallowed. 
The Senate will recall that on Thursday, 12th March, I gave notice of this motion and, in doing so, mentioned that the Committee was concerned about certain aspects of these regulations, but at that point of time had not had an opportunity to examine them closely. The Committee has now conducted an inquiry into the circumstances of these regulations and has prepared a report which will bc available for tabling in the Senate this evening, together with the evidence taken from departmental witnesses. 
In the Committee's view these regulations grant to the Naval Board a wide power of discretion in determining the rights of naval personnel and do not set down any criteria to guide the Naval Board in its determination. This is one of the principles on which the Committee has operated for many years. It is one of the principles which the Committee looks upon as important. Some criteria should be set down by which people will know how judgments can be made. The Committee heard the evidence and gave due consideration to it, and that has led to the motion that I have proposed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Anderson)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Wood)  agreed to: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for Thursday, 7th May 1970. 
I move: 
That the following regulations bc disallowed: Regulation 1 of the amendments of the Military Financial Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1969, No. 1 12, and made under the Defence Act 1903-1966; 
Regulation 1 of the amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1969, No. 113, and made under the Naval Defence Act 1910-1968; and 
Regulation 5 of the amendments of the Air Force Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1969, No. 117, and made under the Air Force Act 1923-1965. 
This motion has been before the Committee for some time. It has caused a debate as to postponements but there have been circumstances which the Committee was prepared to try to meet, and as a result of the actions of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  and the Minister concerned a Bill has now been introduced in another place. There is no doubt that when the Bill becomes law, as [ believe it will when both Houses approve it, it will take over where these regulations really commenced. 
In proposing this motion let me say that the Committee is not concerned with the policy of the regulations. It is the Committee's duty to scrutinise all regulations to ensure (a) that they are in accordance with the statute, and (b) that they are confined to administrative detail and do not contain matters more appropriate to substantive legislation. The Committee is opposed to the regulations because, firstly, it is doubtful whether they are properly authorised under the regulation making power of the statute and, therefore, whether they are in accordance with the relevant statutes; and secondly, apart from any previous regulation which may have been issued under the regulation making power of the statute the provision of this annual allowance is not an administrative detail. Rather it is an important innovation more appropriate to substantive legislation. I think that so far as this House is concerned it strikes a very important note. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! Is the motion seconded? 
in reply - In closing the debate I should like to say that as  "Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I have listened with great interest to the debate which has taken place. The means by which we arrived at out present situation have been clearly set out From the Committee's point of view it is necessary that some action be taken one way or the other. I think it would have been a weakness on the part of the Committee if it had allowed the regulations to go on until next week to be disallowed then because of the effluxion of time. I think it would have been unwise for the Committee to ask for a further postponement because we know of the argument that took place last week. I think it would have been bad from the point of view of the status and purpose of the Committee to have moved for the abolition of this motion before the Senate. In those circumstances I think the Committee's purpose today is crystal clear. 
The Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  mentioned that the motion appeared to be pin-pricking in nature, but I can assure the Leader that that was not the purpose in moving the motion. I should like to say to the Leaders of all parties and to the Senate generally that in the 17 years or more during which I have been  Chairman  of this Committee I have never found any member of the Committee, no matter what his Party - it is a Committee representing the 3 Parties - trying to take a political advantage. I say with absolute sincerity that the deliberations of the Committee have always been on the highest plane. Only last week one of the newer members remarked that the Committee was a lively one and that he had enjoyed the meeting very much because of the type of debate that went on. During the time that I have been  Chairman  of the Committee I can safely say that we have had as members some of the most able men in the Senate. 
 I am not saying that that is not so, but in the Regulations and Ordinances Committee we have been particularly fortunate in many of the senators who have served on the Committee. Because of the nature of the work of the Committee, whenever the Committee moves for the disallowance of a regulation it provokes some feeling, but the Committee has to remember that it has a purpose and must act. In acting it must be careful that it docs not appear to be too precipitate. The Committee has a determination to show the authority that might reasonably be expected of it, but also it has a duty to make sure that the Senate does not feel that it is lagging in the job. In these circumstances I feel that in its deliberations the Committee gives deep consideration to the problems that come before it, but at the same time recognises the duty that it has to serve the Senate and the people of Australia. 
I well remember that when appointed to the chairmanship of this Committee the late  Sir Robert  Garran was asked by one of my colleagues what this Committee was. As a man who helped with the framing of the Constitution  Sir Robert  replied that this was the most important Committee in Parliament because its duty was to see that Parliament ran this country with legislation and that the Executive did not do so by regulations and ordinances. In those circumstances 1 have always treated it as a Committee of very great importance. I think that, as a layman, I have given to the Committee the best I am able to give. I have been supported very ably by the honourable senators who have served on the Committee with me during this time. In view of the interest which has been shown by many people in the activities of the Committee I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
 I present the Thirtieth Report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a report on the Norfolk Island Health Ordinance of 1969. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I give notice that on 14th May next I shall move: 
That sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c) of subsection (2.), and sub-section (4.), of proposed new section 24 of the Norfolk Island Health Ordinance as contained in section (4.) of the Health Ordinance 1969 and made under the Norfolk Island Act 1957-1969, be disallowed. 
I give notice further that on 21st May next I shall move: 
That the amendments of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 1, and made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1969, be disallowed. 
That the amendments of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations contained in Statutory Rules No. 8 of 1970 and made under the Customs Act 1901-1969, be disallowed. 
That the following Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1965, be disallowed, viz: 
Ordinance No. 7 of 1970, being amendments to the Surveyors Ordinance 1967. 
Ordinance No. 8 of 1970, being amendments to the Agents Ordinance 1968. 
Ordinance No. 9 of 1970, being amendments to the Architects Ordinance 1959-1967. 
Ordinance No. 10 of 1970, being amendments to the Building Ordinance 1964-1969. 
Ordinance No. 11 of 1970, being amendments to the Buildings (Design and Siting) Ordinance 1964-1969. 
Ordinance No. 12 of 1970, being amendments to the Enquiry Ordinance 1938-1967. 
Ordinance No. 13 of 1970, being amendments to the Land Valuation Ordinance 1936-1967. 

 Mr President, I ask for leave to make a statement in relation to the notices of motion I have just given. 
I present the 31st report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a report on the amendments of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. I. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I give notice that on the 4th June next I shall move: 
That the amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 35, and made under the Naval Defence Act 1910-1968, be disallowed. 
I would just like to say a few words on this subject. What amazes me is that honourable senators should be beating the air on this particular question at this time of the night. 1 would have thought that honourable senators should know something of the conduct of the Senate. If they feel that there is something wrong with the recordings in the journal, why do they not move a motion on Tuesday to the effect that the journal be altered? To my way of thinking that is the simple way to do it. But here we are, talking away and beating the air around midnight and where are we getting? To my way of thinking the sensible attitude in these sorts of things would be to move a motion and then the Senate would have an opportunity to declare itself. Otherwise we are just wasting time. 
I ask leave to make a statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
On 16th April 1 moved a motion relating to the disallowance of Statutory Rule 1969, No. 138. Since moving this motion the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  has written to me as  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and has indicated that he is prepared to amend these regulations to accord with the recommendations made by your Committee in its 29th Report. 
Statutory Rule 1970, No. 61 being amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations were Gazetted on 1st May 1970 has now been promulgated and meets the Committee's objections. Accordingly, 1 ask leave of the Senate to withdraw the motion relating to Statutory Rule 1970, 138 which is: 
Business of the Senate, Order of the Day No. 1 on today's Notice Paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support the amendment. I think that it is in keeping with the spirit of the action which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has taken for some time. I believe that these matters should be kept within the control of Parliament. Parliament has to decide the Budget and the annual expenditure. 1 thnk that what is proposed in the amendment is one way of keeping matters more closely under the control of Parliament. I think it is a very good move and, as I say, I support the amendment. 
I have listened with interest to the debates on Vietnam that have recently taken place in the Senate and have been amazed at the amount of silly talk that they have contained. It has been surprising to me that affairs should be conducted in this Parliament in the way that this debate has proceeded on what is deemed to be a Supply Bill. I am just a simple minded person who thinks of things in simple terms. Some of the things that have been said in this chamber today and were said here last week just could not be comprehended by anybody with a sense of logic. At times I have wondered what honourable senators have been talking about. For instance, we have heard a lot of talk about the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign from people who say: 'We want peace'. 
We have heard it said that the American and Australian troops should get out of Vietnam. That is the sort of talk that has gone on in this debate. I say that it is time we got back to the basic points of this situation. Who is trying to kid whom? Americans are accused of being warlike Fascists by people who say that our troops are not in Vietnam by right. To the people who claim that they want peace I say that it is quite easy to get peace if both sides agree. The people who are so determined to have peace should go to those people who really can give them peace. They are the members of the Vietcong and the Communists of North Vietnam. 
 Let us get back to first principles. Who started this war? Did the Americans start it? Of course they did not. Did the Australians start it? Of course they did not. The fact is that the Vietcong troops are in a country which does not belong to them, and so are the Communists of North Vietnam. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is trying to tell me that if we of north Queensland invaded South Australia we would not be invading South Australia. That is what he is trying to tell me. 
 More than one country has been divided in recent times. I am a teetotaller, but when somebody tells me that we are the aggressors, and after listening to some other arguments that have been advanced here, I wonder whether I can really be sober. Those arguments put forward by honourable senators opposite carry no weight whatsoever. Those ideas are absolute stupidity and contain no logic or fact. In simple terms, American and Australian troops are in Vietnam not because they are the aggressors but because they have been called in to help to defend people who are being ill-treated in a state of war by people who are the aggressors. 
The Vietnamese people asked them to come. 
 The American and Australian troops. They have desired all the help it is possible for them to get. 
 If that fact is denied it would make one wonder what credence can be given to any argument the honourable senator has tendered in this debate. It is a fact, and we are there trying to help people to defend their own country. Is there anything wrong with that? Members of the Labor Party in years gone by held themselves out as great supporters of democracy. They said that they believed in democracy. Not only do I believe in democracy but I also practise it wherever possible. If honourable senators opposite believe in democracy they should practise it. The people of South Vietnam are asking for help to be safe from the invaders of their country. 
 You have already been told. 
 If you do not know, you should know that the Australian troops are there to help the Vietnamese people. Gory stories are told about the terrible Americans and terrible Australians. It is said that those Australians are a terrible lot who are there fighting for democracy and to keep people in their own country. But what do we hear from honourable senators opposite about the atrocities which the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese inflict on the people of South Vietnam? What about the atrocities that they have inflicted on the people of Cambodia? I challenge honourable senators opposite to deny that Cambodia is a country which has tried to remain neutral and at peace. But what has happened? The Communists of North Vietnam have marched down into that country and used it as a base from which to transport materials in order to fight the people of South Vietnam. 
If any member of the Opposition tries to tell me that we are the aggressors I begin to wonder at the basis of the Opposition's arguments. They have no logical base whatever. I challenge any honourable senator opposite to say whether this is not something of which democracy should be proud. We are there helping people to maintain themselves in their homeland. When we hear of the atrocities that are being inflicted on these people by the Communist element it makes one believe thai the Labor Party would want to stir itself to do something to defend these people. 1 cannot understand what has happened to the Labor Party. At one time it called itself a party of humanitarian character, a party that believed in true democracy. What has gone wrong with it? I think it has gone off the track because it has become carried away by these people and will not believe that they can do anything wrong, even when they butcher, slaughter and torture innocent people. It is time thai members of the Labor Party woke up. I believe that the people of Australia will not have them in government while they talk like this. If I were the public relations officer for the Liberal Party and Country Party, if I could not put this talk from the Labor Party to our advantage so that we would win an election I would eat my hat. 
I am not a rejected backbencher. 1 have been here since 1949. I have sat in the Party room and I have said lo the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that 1 am not interested in the Ministry. I have represented Queensland since 1949 and I have done what lots of people in this chamber have not been prepared to do; I have voted according to my conscience, even if it meant that I was to be thrown out of the Parliament, lt is to the credit of the Liberal Party that we have the freedom to express our conscience, and it is to the credit of the Labor Party that 1 have been re-endorsed time after time. Only about 3 months ago when it was last thought that 1 was being written off I was again endorsed for the forthcoming Senate election as No. 1 on the Queensland Senate ticket. No-one in this chamber is able to say that  Senator Wood  has not been game to express his opinion and to cany his opinion to a vote according to his conscience. The Senate knows full well that I say what I believe, and I want to say now that I believe that our people, in joining in and helping to defend the people of Vietnam, are doing a humanitarian job. They are opposing people who are far from humanitarian in their attitude to the people of that country. 
I was pleased when the United States saw fit to stop fighting the battle with one arm behind its back, when it went into Cambodia to attack the Vietcong and North Vietnamese. I believe that was one of the best things that could have happened for democracy. The North Vietnamese have their supply lines in Cambodia and their forces are being fed through Cambodia in order to keep the battle going. Now thai the Americans have taken on the North Vietnamese in the Cambodian region we find a complete change in the fighting on this front. I hope that this action will go on until the North Vietnamese are routed completely. If the North Vietnamese are knocked back completely I feel that peace can come to that area. That must have been the desire of these people for a long time. 
There has been a cry today about the tremendous crowds that turned up for the demonstrations last week. In Melbourne there were about 15,000 to 20.000 people in the streets, but many of them were children. We cannot count the bystanders at the side of the street as being part of the crowd of demonstrators. If  i  had been shopping in the streets of Melbourne I could not. be counted as one of the demonstrators We hear talk about the crowd that was present. Melbourne had the biggest crowd. But even a decent football match in Melbourne would attract many more people than that. It would not be of any great concern to us in north Queensland that a few thousand people turned out to see a football match in Victoria. When we boil it all down, throughout the whole country how many people turned out for this demons! ration when you take into account the number of children who were present and the number of people of the 
Australian Labor Party who seized the opportunity to make a display for political purposes? When you find out the number of people who had feelings on this subject and who turned out for the demonstration you find that there were not many at all. 1 do not get carried away by the reports of the number at the demonstrations. Some pressmen will play up the figures. Some have suggested that as many as 100.000 people were present, but the actual number was much less. It must have been disappointing to honourable senators opposite because they wanted it to be a display that would carry them along on a political wave such as they have tried to achieve in the past. As one who has some political nouse and is able to tell how elections generally will go, let me say to honourable senators opposite that they are the best people in the world to keep themselves out of office. They have been very successful at keeping themselves out of office. Does the Senate remember the election when John Kennedy was shot? At that time the then Prime Minister was knocking at the knees about getting back into office, but what was the Labor Party doing? lt was knocking the North West Cape installation and our boys fighting for democracy in Malaysia. When Kennedy was shot by a Communist the Labor Party shot its bolt and had no possibility of getting in. I am not merely saying this after the event; I told members of the Labor Party and lots of other people that it would happen. 
 I will say this: In that event you would not have an insincere leader; you would have a person who really believed in democracy. Consider the next election when the Labor Party had an opportunity of getting into office. What did it do? Its members shot their mouths off against conscription. I remind honourable senators opposite that I told their leader before he went out on this platform that if he did so he would be a gone coon. 
 No, but I am saying now that I said to him: 'You will be a gone coon.' He said: 'Oh, no! Mothers are against conscription.' I said: 'No. The great bulk of the people of Australia want the insurance policy that America will be by their side whenever they need assistance.' What happened then? The Labor Party came back almost decimated, at a time when it had had a wonderful opportunity. In view of the loyalty of the people of this country, their belief in standing up for democracy and for the freedom of individuals in this and other countries, if the Labor Party comes out with this sort of thing again it will be decimated again and the opportunity that it might have had will be gone to the moon. 
The Labor Party did well at the last election, not because of the Labor Party but because of silly business in our own Party. I am honest about it. What is happening? 
 I can tell the honourable senator about it. 1 am honest enough to say so. If honourable senators opposite continue to follow the line they are following tonight, they will commit hara-kiri. 
 Our Party has a sense of public relations and good political nouse. Honourable senators opposite are giving my Party a wonderful opportunity to come back with greatly increased numbers. We, as Australians, have people fighting in Vietnam in the name of this country. Never at any time does everybody agree with everything that a government does, and naturally in a war, or in a conflict such as that in Vietnam, there are always some people who say. 'We do not agree with what the Government is doing.' But there is this basic thought in most people's minds: If you are in a thing from a national point of view, you are in it.' The good sense and loyalty of the Australian people will make them say: 'They are our boys over there. We have to remain loyal to them. We cannot shoot them in the back, because they are our people.' The average Australian has strength of character and loyalty, and if he feels that any Party or any group will shoot our own boys in the back - whether by disloyal actions or the attitudes which have been expressed in recent times - he wilt ensure that that Party will be given the right answer at the next election. Honourable senators opposite speak about the Americans and say that they should not be in Vietnam. 1 saw some of the placards. 
This was at the demonstrations about which you are skiting, and where the number of demonstrators would not equal the crowd at a decent football match. Honourable senators opposite talk about the Americans and they say that they should not be up there in Vietnam and that they should be sent home. The placards 1 saw called them mercenaries, brutal people, butchers, murderers and so on. lt. is a marvellous thing to see to whom people will appeal when they need something. I recall that during the last war when the Labor Parly was in office and John Curtin was Prime Minister he made an appeal when this country was desperately in need of assistance. To whom did John Curtin appeal for help? lt was to the great United States. 
 I challenge you to deny what I am saying. 
 1 am challenging  Senator Mulvihill.  I challenge him or anyone else to deny what I am saying. John Curtin yelled to high heaven for assistance. He yelled to the United States to come to our aid. 
 lt is not a civil war. 
 If  Senator Mulvihill  goes on splitting straws like that, we will have him in the legal profession. I remind him once again that it was not a Liberal 
Prime Minister, but a Labor Prime Minister who called to the United States for help. If this country needed assistance again, if it were ever attacked by any country again, to whom do you think Australia would appeal? lt would be the United States. I am convinced that the average Australian believes in his own mind that the greatest insurance policy which any Australian government can give this country is by cooperating and working with the United Slates in the fight for freedom and liberty not only in this country but in other countries which need our assistance, lt staggers me to hear honourable senators opposite who are failing in what their Party has stood for over the years - the love of democracy and the belief that we should help the underdog and those people who need help - now talk as they have done tonight. Surely the people of South Vietnam deserve the help and assistance of all those who love and believe in democracy and the right and opportunity for everybody to live in the way he desires. 1 hope that this issue in Vietnam will continue until the Vietcong, the North Vietnamese and the Communists will be so crushed that the flower of liberty will blossom and grow much greater and much better than ever before in the South East Asian area. I am proud to be associated wilh a Government which stands up for these rights. I only hope that the leaders of this Government, instead of sitting back and taking a defensive attitude, will take more of the offensive in this political fight and show the Australian people that what is being done is the right thing for the preservation of liberty and democracy. 

 Senator WHEELDON  (Western Australia) [9.46J - 1 think that members of the Australian Labor Party appreciate  Senator Wood's  contribution. It was a sincere contribution. We know very well that  Senator Wood  would very much like (o sec the present Government defeated and the Australian Labor Party elected to office. He has been doing his very best to give us some advice as to how we should accomplish this end. He has found it necessary to include a little bit of the usual oratory which  members  of the Liberal Party are expected to engage in on these occasions, but 1 do not think that we should allow ourselves to lose sight of the basic objective of  Senator Wood's  contribution tonight, and that is, to suggest to us how we should defeat the present Government. 
He has suggested to us that if we were to oppose the war in Vietnam this would take the heat off us and we would be able to concentrate on the Government's follies which he mentioned in passing, without referring to them specifically, and having done so we would be able to get  rid  of the Government and therefore satisfy him. I think that several years ago there may possibly have been some validity in this argument. There is no question that when troops were first sent to Vietnam, the 
Old  argument about 'my country right or wrong' carried some weight with the majority of the Australian people  and  that those who were opposed to the war were accused of sabotaging in some way the war effort, of stabbing our boys in the back, and we were losing some votes at that time. 1 do not believe that this is the case at the present time. I believe that, just as in the United States of America at this time, the majority of the Australian people are opposed lo Australia's participation in the Vietnam war. 
It is no use comparing the crowds at the Moratorium demonstrations with the crowds at a football match. They should be compared with crowds at any other political meeting. The Australian people have shown that they are opposed to Australia's participation in the Vietnam war by the greatest series of political demonstrations which have been seen in this country for decades and which took place over the past few days in support of the cessation of Australia's participation in the Vietnam war. If one felt that there were votes to be gained and offices to be won by supporting the war in Vietnam, and that even if one felt it was wrong that would be a reason for supporting it, I do not believe that the Labor Party came into existence merely to acquire jobs for people who were looking for them. The Labor Party came into existence in order to advocate policies, whether those policies are popular or unpopular. Policies which we once held to, which were unpopular and which were derided by our opponents have now been accepted even by the most reactionary members of the Liberal and Country Parties, not because they would accept these policies if they thought that they could get away wilh opposing them, but because they know that the great bulk of Austraiian people have come now to support those policies. 
Apart from the advice that he gave us,  Senator Wood  said a couple of things about the nature of the war in Vietnam and Cambodia about which I should like to comment. One of them was that he hoped that American forces would remain inside Cambodia until the time when they had won a complete victory over the forces of the North Vietnamese and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam. I am afraid that his hopes are doomed to be dashed in this matter because even the  President  of the United States has said that the United States intends to withdraw its troops from Cambodia approximately 7 weeks from now at the latest. The United States has no intention of staying inside Cambodia for any long period - certainly not until such time as the Government and people of North Vietnam have been defeated. 
The other argument which  Senator Wood  raised - an argument which we have heard frequently - was the argument concerning the insurance policy which we were supposed to be obtaining from the United States of America by sending forces into Vietnam; the old argument has been that if we were to do something for the United States now the United States would be so impressed by our 3 battalions of conscripts that whether or not its national interests appeared to demand it the United States would come to our rescue at some time in the future. When this argument was put forward first it was pointed out that it was palpable nonsense, that the United States would come to our assistance only if it believed that it was in its national interest to do so, and that it would not come to our interest in some future conflict if it did not believe this to be the case. The  President  of the United States, the United States Administration and every national leader in the United States have made it clear that, whatever the outcome of the present conflict in Indo-China may be, the United States does not intend to participate in future conflicts of this nature in Asia. The very cheap insurance policy whereby we hoped to obtain the support of all the armed forces of the United States of America by sending a couple of battalions of conscripts to Vietnam has been cancelled already by the insurer before anybody has made any demand for the payment of damages. The United States has made it perfectly clear that in no wars of this nature in future will it become involved in South East Asia. 
I believe that what members of the Government parties have said about the Moratorium has reflected very ill on all the members of the Government parties. They have agitated constantly - some of them in particular, but I do not include all of them - in order to insult, deride and abuse the Australian Labor Party and other people, including the Jesuit priest who was the  Chairman  of the Moratorium rally in Perth, members of a large number of religious denominations and all kinds of non-political people who have had the courage to come forward and say that they are opposed to the Vietnam war. I was very disappointed when  Senator Cotton  indulged in such tactics. Normally in the past, he, unlike  Senator Greenwood,  has not engaged in such tactics. I would not include  Senator Cotton  in the same category as  Senator Greenwood  by a kind of guilt by association process except that  Senator Cotton  happens to belong to the same political party as does  Senator Greenwood.  Except for that,  Senator Cotton  bears no resemblance to  Senator Greenwood.  This afternoon  Senator Cotton  made reference to the carrying of Vietcong flags, the clear implication being that because certain persons taking part in the Moratorium demonstration carried Vietcong flags, therefore, the members of the Australian Labor Party who supported the Moratorium supported the Vietcong also. A number of people would support the Vietcong. I personally, I do not deny, do support the Vietcong because  1  believe that the Vietcong represents the great mass of the South Vietnamese people. I make no apology for this. I do say that a great number of people - a majority of the people who took part in the Moratorium - do not agree with me on this. They would rather see some other cessation of the hostilities in Vietnam. They merely asked for the withdrawal of Australian troops so that peace could be attained. 
If anybody accuses me of being around when somebody was carrying a Vietcong flag, I will not apologise. I will not withdraw. I will not say that I was not there. I will not say that I would have left the 
15360/70-  S.-  (551 
march if I had seen the Vietcong flag being carried. I did see some people carrying Vietcong flags and  1  did not withdraw from the march. In saying that, however, I do not come here as an advocate of the Vietcong. My support for the Vietcong is a purely theoretical support. My attitude  to  the war in Vietnam is that whales er happens inside Vietnam is a matter for settlement by the Vietnamese people and that what is happening in Indo-China is no business of the Australian people, the Australian Army or the Australian Government. Young Australians should not be conscripted to be sent to Indo-China to be killed. My policy as far as Australia and Vietnam are concerned is that Australia should not be intervening in that country. If people, like  Senator Greenwood,  feel strongly about our involvement and want to fight there - people who have heard the call to arms and who believe that people ought to be getting fired at and killed in Vietnam - they should go there. If  Senator Greenwood  said that he had enlisted in some force to fight in Vietnam,  1  would say that clearly he had the courage of his convictions. Although I disagree with him, I could not object to his doing this. If  Senator Greenwood  wanted to fight there, as I think he does -  1  am sure he would like to fight there but apparently something is inhibiting him from going - I would not condemn him for doing this because he would at least be showing that he was prepared to make the same sacrifice as those persons whom he has voted to send there and get killed. 
I want to raise another matter referred lo by  Senator Wood.  He mentioned what he described as the 'invasion of Cambodia' by the Vietcong. He condemned those members of the Australian Labor Party who are opposed to the American intervention in Cambodia. It is one thing to say: 'I disagree with Labor senators who are opposed to the American intervention in Cambodia,' but it was another thing when  Senator Cotton  said that not only did he disagree with us but that in fact we were subversives, we were traitors and we were dishonourable people - an allegation which we have never made against  Senator Cotton  but one which, by implication, he was clearly making against us. 
Sena-or WHEELDON- That was the clear implication of  Senator Cotton's  statement this afternoon, f do not see what possible interpretation other than that could be put on the statement he made concerning the Vietcong flags. If it is to be said that because members of the Australian Labor Party are opposed to the American intervention in Cambodia we are treacherous and we are subversive, the Government will have to concede that a majority of the members of the United States Senate also are treacherous and subversive because the viewpoint of the Australian Labor Party - the viewpoint of honourable senators sitting in opposition in this chamber - on the American intervention in Cambodia is the same as the viewpoint of a majority of members of the United States Senate. 
Sena:or WHEELDON- If  Senator Young  wishes to say that a majority of members of the United States Senate are traitors and subversives, he is entirely at liberty to do so but 1 do not think this statement would be taken seriously by the Australian people. This is not the main matter on which I rose to speak. 
I understand that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  desires to make a statement in connection with the notice of motion standing in my name on the notice paper. 
I withdraw notice of motion No. 1, Business of the Senate, standing in my name on today's notice paper which reads as follows: 
That sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c) of sub-section (2.), and sub-section (4.), of proposed new section 24 of the Norfolk Island Health Ordinance, as contained in section (4.), of the Health Ordinance 1969 and made under the Norfolk Island Act 1957-1969, be disallowed. 
In doing so 1 would like, as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, to express on behalf of the Committee our appreciation of the co-operation of both the Minister in this place,  Senator Wright,  and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  in relation to the amendment of this Ordinance as a result of which the Committee's objections have been overcome. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. What steps are being taken by this Government to encourage more frequency of services by Canadian Pacific Airlines Ltd between Canada and Australia? Does he not consider that, in view of the visit of the Prime Minister of Canada, this would be one tangible way of building up greater contact between the Canadian people and the Australian people? 
I ask for leave to make a statement relating to Notices of Motion Nos 2 and 3, Business of the Senate. 
In this argument in regard to the ophthalmologists I would like the Minister to tell me what the Department feels as to whether the inclusion of this provision would be detrimental in any way to the professional calling of the optometrist. I do not think any one of us wants to injure those people and the Department may be able to give the Minister the answer and let us know what effect it will have. I understand that it would not be detrimental to the optometrist, but I think we should ask for some clarification on the matter. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. Has the Government given consideration to selling the service known as Qantas Airways Ltd in view of the fact that it has become a most uncertain service in its aircraft departures because of the rebellious attitude of its pilots and personnel, and also in view of the fact that these continual delays and disturbances to Qantas, which is an international operator, are giving Australia a very bad name with the international travelling public? 
In relation to Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in my name on today's notice paper, there ls before the Senate the Thirty-first Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which recommends the disallowance of these regulations. The report pointed out that the regulations provided payment of salary and allowance for the person constituting the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, and that these payments were to be retrospective over a period of almost 3 years. As the report stated, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has always maintained that retrospective payments of this kind deny to the Parliament the right to approve or disapprove of expenditure when that expenditure is made. In its Twenty-fifth Report, tabled in November 1968, the Committee stated that regulations providing for retrospective payments would attract close scrutiny by the Committee and that retrospectivity extending beyond 2 years, unless quite exceptional circumstances are established to the Committee's satisfaction, would be the subject of a recommendation for disallowance. Since the Thirty-first Report was tabled, the Committee has discovered that these regulations are objectionable on grounds other than retrospectivity of the payments alone. The regulations did not come into effect until January 1970, by which time, on the Ministers authorisation, over 8,000 had already been paid in anticipation of the regulations. These payments were made without any legal authority whatsoever. 
The Senate will appreciate that the principle of parliamentary control of expenditure is violated by these regulations in a much more fundamental way than was set out in the Committee's Thirty-first Report. Not. only has the Parliament been denied the right to approve or disapprove of expenditure but public moneys have been expended by the Minister without any authority, either explicit or implicit. 
Such an issue has been before the Senate previously. In October 1960 the Committee pointed out, in connection with certain defence forces regulations, that over $100m had been expended without legal authority in anticipation of the regulations. The Senate on that occasion quite properly took the view that the regulations were objectionable, that they undermined parliamentary control of expenditure and that, therefore, they ought to be disallowed. 
The same priniciple, though a lesser amount of money, is involved in these regulations. Whatever difficulties may have led to the delay in promulgating these regulations, the Senate ought not to countenance such a fundamental denial of the powers of the Parliament as is embodied in these regulations. The Senate ought not to countenance the expenditure of public moneys by the Executive without any authority given by Parliament, either direct or indirect. I trust that, for these reasons, the Senate will disallow the regulations. Accordingly, I move: 
That the amendments of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No.  1  and made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1969, be disallowed. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls the motion seconded? 
As the mover of the motion and as I. am now closing the debate I would like to thank honourable senators for their contribution to the debate which ensued as a result of this motion for disallowance of a regulation. Many interesting facts have been brought out during the debate. I am very thankful to  Senator Lawrie  for the way in which he brought out the various dates, indicating the considerable period of time the Government had to rectify this situation. It could have been done quite a long time ago. I think the debate has fairly well covered the subject. This debate, as I mentioned before, recalls to my mind the debate of 4th October when a sum of money was involved. I think 1 might have mentioned during my speech when I moved the motion that the sum of money was $100m. At that period of time Australia was under the old currency system and the amount was 50m, which was a considerable sum of money. At that time the matter was brought to light by way of disallowing the regulations. I think the Executive should be more watchful over the payment of money. I think it is an important function as far as the Parliament is concerned to have the right to say how moneys will be spent. This is the core of the matter on this occasion. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has probably found difficulty in certain respects. Over a period of many years he gave great service of very high quality and integrity to the Committee. I do well to record his great service to the Committee. I know that at al! times the work of the Committee has his very earnest consideration. 
The Committee has considered this matter, lt should be stressed that the Committee has a legal adviser who is engaged to advise the Committee on these various regulations. It also has the advantage of the senators' own views. The Committee's work flows from its attention being drawn to certain matters by the legal adviser and also by individual senators who may be well versed in particular matters. The Committee at no time moves without a deep sense of responsibility for what it is doing. After the debate which has taken place 1 still feel that the Committee is on the right lines. It is most unfortunate that a former member of the Committee,  Senator Bishop,  who also gave very fine service to the Committee should have clashed with me over the Qantas pilots dispute. I draw his attention to the fact that it was not I who introduced this question in this debate. I hope it can be fairly said that at all times when dealing with the Committee's work and in introducing motions as  Chairman  I have always tried to confine myself to the essential points of the debate. With those few words I close this debate. I feel that under these circumstances the Committee's action is one which is entitled to the consideration of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I think what should be paramount in our minds is that this is the Parliament of a democracy. The people who have the task of adjudicating on the merits of legislation should have sufficient time to read it.  Senator McManus  has pointed out that a sheaf of proposed amendments have been circulated and these require study, apart from the Bill. As he said, senators have been allowed little time to study those documents and to discuss them. I do not think that that reflects any credit on the Government. It is to the discredit of the Government that the legislation should be presented in this way. If we were on the Opposition benches and the present Opposition was in government, our people would be the loudest in their howls about such treatment. 
At 9 o'clock this morning 1 was present at a meeting of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The Senate sat until late lust night. What time have we had to study this Bill? It is a very important measure. There are certain aspects of it that 1 do not like, particularly those which disparage general practitioners. 1 think we should have more time to study legislation of this character. The way that Ministers such as the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  went to ride rough shod over Parliament is a disgrace to the Government. 
A very fine point has been discussed. I think it was  Senator O'Byrne  who asked what was the situation of a patient who went to an eye specialist who then did not prescribe spectacles. The Minister replied and said that if spectacles were prescribed by the eye specialist the Commonwealth benefit would not be paid. I take it in that case that if the eye specialist rendered an account, or charged the person for the visit, although the person did not request spectacles but got them later, the original charge would attract the Commonwealth benefit. 1 take it that is the interpretation. I know that the Minister is in a very difficult situation in handling the Bill. It is not her Bill and she is working under difficulty. I am very interested in this point. If eye specialists were included in this category, would it affect the profession of optometrists? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [3.35] - I think that we should turn to paragraph 15.5 on page 56 of the Nimmo Committee's report, which I do not think  Senator McClelland  read. He read the paragraph above it and the one below it. 
The fact that spectacle lenses are prescribed both by ophthalmologists- 
. and by optometrists gives rise to special problems under the scheme. It is claimed by optometrists that unfair discrimination arises from the fact that subject to certain conditions medical benefits are payable for consultations with ophthalmologists but not with optometrists. 
When 1 replied earlier to a question raised by  Senator Gair  concerning subsection (4.) of sectoin 4 of the principal Act I said it had been considered since 1953 that ophthalmologists' and optometrists' patients should be on exactly the same footing as regards Commonwealth benefits if they are given spectacles. I think this answers the point which was raised.  Senator Wood  again asked a question concerning a patient who visits an ophthalmologist. If the ophthalmologist prescribes spectacles there is no Commonwealth benefit. Of course, there is still a fund benefit.If a patient consults an ophthalmologist and spectacles are not prescribed, he receives the Commonwealth benefit. 
Question put - 
That the request be agreed to. 
I believe that the amendment moved by  Senator Turnbull  has merit. Like  Senator Greenwood,  I consider that it is wrong for the Director-General to have the right to exclude people when there is no right of appeal. So 1 support the amendment. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [9.8] - There is one point I would like to make. I have already made it, but I think I should make it again. In respect of dentists, dental practitioners or oral surgeons, the approval will be given after consultation with the Australian Dental Association. It is not just an approval by the Director-General; it is an approval after consultation with the Australian Dental Association. So there is a point of contact with the people who are associated with the people who are being approved. 
He may not always be the Minister. 
I call  Senator Dittmer.  I am sorry, I should have said that the call is for  Senator Webster  because he is on the alternate side of the chamber to  Senator Gair.  I call  Senator Webster. 
There seems to be some doubt in the minds of honourable senators as to what has taken place. Surely it would be very easy to sift this out. There was an amendment to the Bill. What were the terms of the amendment? Then  Senator McManus  moved an amendment to the amendment, which is an unusual thing, but there it is. We should know the terms of that. By working from the amendment to the Bill and the amendment to the amendment, it should be very easy to clarify the position and to find out what the result was. 
I cannot understand it. 
 I. present the 32nd report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, it being a report on the amendment of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 8. This report outlines the considerations of the Committee in relation to Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 2 on the notice paper, which will come before the Senate for consideration tomorrow. 
Ordered thai the report be printed. 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
At end of paragraph (e) of sub-section (2.) of proposed section 82 r add the wordsplus any specified excess detailed in the Schedules, such excess to be paid by the organisation to the contributor'. 
by leave - I give notice on 18th June I shall move that: 
The proposed new regulations 47E and 47F, as contained in regulation 2 of the amendments of the Military Financial (Pacific Islanders) Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 51 and made under the Defence Aci 1903-66, be disallowed. 
I ask for leave to make a statement in connection with the notice of motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has been considering the amendments of the Military Financial (Pacific Islanders) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 51, over the past few weeks, and in the course of its inquiry has had discussions with officers of the Department of the Army who advised the Committee that the 
Department would be prepared to amend the regulations to overcome the Committee's objections. I have given notice of motion for the disallowance of these regulations as tomorrow is the last day on which such a motion may be tabled. This will allow time for the Minister to consider the matter and draft the necessary amendments. 
I  wish  to  ask a question of the  Minister for Civil Aviation. ls it correct  that  the Government is preventing American airlines from securing the required service  itrequency  lor a new service from the United Slates of America  to  Australia in order, as  Claimed  in the newspapers, lc protect Qantas Airways Ltd at  ail  eo.si.s7 If so, does the Government believe that Qantas is of more importance than the national tourist indusin? ls the Government aware  that  the basic need for any airline  to  operate profitably is  the  securing of the necessary number of passengers? Does  the  Government recognise  that  in order to do this the company will be required to engage in considerable advertising? As this additional service would mean an increase in the number of tourists in Australia, which would mean more overseas currency .spending in this country, docs the Government nol consider, if it is genuine about the tourist industry, that this matter it of real importance? 
In view of the Minister's statement 1 ask for leave to withdraw notice of motion for the disallowance of Australian Capital Territory ordinances Nos 7 to 13 of 1970 standing in my name. 
Notice of motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
What [ am getting at :s that dangers are inherent in building up an edifice such as this Corporation. I do not think that there is any need for the Corporation. I am of the opinion that the Australian Resources Development Bank would be able to do what this Corporation is intended to do. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 15  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Remuneration of Directors). 
I thank the Minister for the statement he has made concerning notices of motion Nos. I and 2 which relate to the disallowance of certain regulations and ordinances. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has had an opportunity to examine the amendments which have been made to the regulations and ordinances in question and agrees that they appear to meet the Committee's objections. I would like to place on record the Committee's appreciation of the cooperation which has been received from the Ministers concerned and the officers of their Departments. I now ask for leave to withdraw notices of motion Nos. I and 2 on today's notice paper. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Notices - by leave - withdrawn. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  in regard to clause 9. The Government is making great play of the fact that the Corporation will nol be subject to a direction by or on behalf of the Commonwealth. There are certain dangers in this Bill. 1 should like to know whether the Leader of the Government is able to give the Committee any assurance in regard to what may happen if there is a change of government. I believe that as this provision can be deleted from the legislation there is no way in which the Government can give such a guarantee. However, I would like to know what assurances we can have. 

 Senator ANDERSON (New South Wales -Minister for Supply) [4. 13  -  The simple answer to  Senator Wood's  question is that 1 can give no guarantee. However, the Bill is not unique in this regard. Any legislation which a government puts down is subject to the will of all subsequent governments. Changes can be made to any legislation as long as they are within the framework of the Constitution. The short answer to the honourable senator's question is thaI 1 can no guarantee in relation lo this provision. A subsequent government, regardless of its political persuasion, could amend or even repeal the legislation. 
I am not satisfied with the explanation given by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson).  I think the clause is a usurpation of the powers of the Parliament. I cannot see any reason why the fees of the members of the Board cannot be fixed in the same way as the fees of members of the other organisations and authorities which this Parliament has established. To say that there must be flexibility is an indication that things are likely to change very quickly. As one who knows something about directorates of companies and so on, I cannot visualise any changes taking place in the fees with the remarkable rapidity thai the Leader of the Government envisages. I cannot see any reason why the fees of the members of the Corporation cannot be fixed in the same way as other fees are fixed by the Parliament. 
One of the things for which honourable senators have fought for some time and have brought to the attention of the Parliament is the necessity to get as much power as possible over expenditure in the hands of the Parliament. I think that the Parliament would be neglecting its duties if it did not take some stand in relation to this type of thing. This clause is the easy way out. The departments like it this way and apparently the ministerial members who are responsible for the administration of the Government like it this way, too. Having regard to my experience of directorships and so on, I think that to suggest that the matter must be handled in this way in order to provide for elasticity and rapidity of change is to treat us as children. I do not agree in the slightest with the explanation which has been given. 
I regret that I have to speak during the third reading stage of this Bill. I was set down to speak during the second reading stage but because of some moves that were made, because there were so many speakers during the Committee stage and because I had an appointment which precluded my being here then, 1 express myself now. At the outset I want to say that 1 am as keen as anyone that we Australians should own as much of our industry as possible. I pay a tribute to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  because 1 know that this is something about which he is very keen. No doubt from that thought stems the Bill which we have before us now. 1 have still to be convinced that there is a necessity for the proposed organisation, the Australian Industry Development Corporation. No one has convinced me of the necessity for it and I still have not heard any real argument as to why it should be established. I know that its basis is to retain as much as possible of Australian industry and development in the hands of the Australian people. That is a very fine ideal but let us look at the position. 
In the first place, it takes a lot of money to develop Australian mining companies and other organisations. In my opinion the organisation which this Bill sets up will have only peanuts compared to what is really needed for the development of this country in total. So often we have said that Australians should invest in their own country. I think it is to the credit of the Australian people that now for the first time in our history they have really invested money in mining organisations to the degree which is necessary. I know that lots of people, some of the gloomy writers in financial journals, some of our foolish brokers and others have given people overseas the wrong impression by saying that a lot of the companies are rubbishy companies. 
Before Western Mining Corporation Ltd found nickel you could hardly sell a share because it was all gold, and although brokers sent out circulars no one wim ted the shares. However, then the company struck nickel there was a boom and people realised that here was a bonanza, something which was very profitable. From being a company in which no one was very keen to invest money - although it was a company of long standing it did not have market appeal - today in the eyes' of the people who spoke about rubbishy companies Western Mining Corporation is one of the fine big companies. Then there is a Poseidon organisation. Less than 12 months ago Poseidon was looked upon by some people as being one of the rubbishy companies but today it is a bonanza and no doubt will become even greater in the minds of the people than some people today think it will be. No doubt many of the smaller companies in which money has been invested will prove in the long run, with proper research, to be just as good as are Western Mining Corporation and Poseidon. lt is only by investing money that you can put down the holes to find oil, minerals or whatever you are looking for in the ground. So it is essential that the Australian people invest as much as possible but there is a limitation to what they can do and a lack of, shall I say, permanency in the minds of a lot of Australian people about investment in mining corporations. The Australian people, probably because of their newness in this kind of thing, very often in this field and often in business look for very quick returns. But returns do not always come quickly. Sometimes in some of these ventures it takes a long time before they are brought to fruition and before they become profitable. We have read about 1 of the big companies investigating on Bougainville. Eventually there will be a mine on the island. The company has been there for some considerable time and has spent a lot of money to reach its present stage, but its ultimate objective still has not been attained. That will take time and a great deal more money. 
Another company is investigating deposits of copper and so on in Papua and New Guinea. Already it has spent many millions of dollars and it is expected that by the time the venture is brought to fruition probably $300m will have been invested. That is big money. People with big capital are needed if these things are to be done. Small people or small shows very often cannot do them. When we think of this country of ours we feel a great importance about our people. In my opinion there is not a better country in the world in which to live but we do not have the large population and the huge amounts of money necessary to develop these undertakings on our own. Therefore we need assistance in the form of investment from other countries. No doubt the desire is to hold as much as possible of the investment and the title to our assets in our own hands but, because of the lack of perhaps stability in the finances of our people, or perhaps it may be one of our characteristics that we are impatient to get returns, we do not see out the long distances as some of the big companies do. In my own State of Queensland we have Mt Isa Mines Limited. No doubt  Senator Gair,  who for a number of years was Premier of Queensland, and other Queensland senators have had a lot of contact with the company and they would know that today Mt Isa is one of the most successful mining companies anywhere. We in Australia are proud of it because of its achievements. 
We do own a percentage of the company but I just cannot tell you what it is. The company is on the Australian stock market and its shares can be bought at any time. The point I am getting at is that Mt lsa is a glamour stock. It is a very successful company. In relation to the minerals that it is mining it will be the biggest company anywhere in the world. I think  Senator Gair  will support me when 1 say that in the early days the Queensland Government had to assist the company in many respects, but the important point is that it was working on and developing the mine, lt did not pay a dividend for at least 20 years. When we talk about investing in companies, how many of us here would be prepared to invest money knowing that we would not receive a dividend for 20 years? 
That is what I am saying. How many Australian organisations would be prepared to do what Conzinc Riotinto of Australia did? How many Australian people, how many of us in the Senate, would be prepared to say: 'We will invest our money for 20 years and in 20 years we will be paid a dividend'? 
No, I do not. I do not think that the Corporation can do any more than can be done at present.  Senator Webster  has reminded me of an aspect that I have in mind with regard to the organisation. Suppose that the AIDC ran into a few companies like Mt lsa in their initial stages. Suppose that hundreds of millions of dollars were invested in them from which no return was received for about 20 years. Who would be paying the interest on this money from overseas that some honourable senators have been talking about bringing into this country to finance such ventures, plus the taxpayers' money which is used to start it off? If an organisation such as the Corporation we are to set up had a few investments like Mount Isa Mines Ltd on its books at the start this Parliament would be looking askance at a wait of many years before any return came from those companies even to pay the interest on the money borrowed for the purpose. 
There has been a lot of nice talk about the Corporation, but it is loose talk. People say: 'We should be doing this and we should be doing that'. So far as Australian development is concerned we should have what we can afford to have. 1 believe that the percentage that we can buy and retain of our Australian development is not as large as many people think it is. Many of the Corporations established in Australia today are of great magnitude. To purchase 30% of the shareholding, as some people suggest, would require many hundreds of millions of dollars. I cannot see this country doing it. We have to be sensible about this venture and approach it according to our means. 
The Government speaks about the Australian Industry Development Corporation as an organisation which can retain for us ownership in Australian companies. But what is the necessity for it? The Australian Development Resources Bank can do exactly what the Corporation plans to do. Why do we need a second instrumentality for the purpose? The Australian taxpayers are to put in S25m to start the Corporation, and I believe that is to be followed by another S25m. Then it will be necessary to borrow money overseas. What will happen then? Interest will have to be paid to the overseas lenders of the money. What difference is there between paying interest overseas and paying dividends to overseas owners through the successful working of companies? I would be very pleased to hear an explanation of the difference. 
The money of Australian taxpayers is to be used to set up the Corporation. This will add another pressure to the existing situation. The Government has told us that it is necessary to cut down expenditure because of strong pressures, ls the establishment of the Corporation evidence of the desire of the Government to cut down expenditure? Of course not. As I said, the Australian Development Resources Bank could do exactly the same job as is to be asked of the Corporation. If I remember correctly, the  Chairman  of that Bank made a statement along those lines. Why is it necessary to set up an extra instrumentality? It seems to be Government policy to have as many instrumentalities as possible, but it takes money to run them. Private organisations would be prepared to make the son of investment planned for the Corporation. 
Not so long ago an organisation comprised entirely, I think, of Australian companies approached me and said to me in my capacity as a director of some companies that if nickel was found, that organisation was prepared to establish the mine, put in the housing, and even build the smelter if necessary, involving a capital investment of about S50m. That indicates that there are people in this country who are prepared lo do that sort of thing. I have here a prospectus sent to me by Castlereagh Securities Ltd. This company is bi-ing floated for the same purpose as the Corporation is to be set up. The prospectus states: 
Castlereagh Securities' main objects are to meet the rapidly growing need for Australianowned groups capable both of assisting worth while mining ventures with developmental or exploration finance and technical expertise, and of  I a  king a positive role in the expansion of dynamic Australian industrial enterprises. In addition,  the  scope for substantial benefits from able investment in these areas is far greater in the current investment climate than lor some time. 
That company is being flouted at present. Already reports in the Press have indicated that it has had a big subscription. Sixty million ordinary shares are being issued with the right to accept an oversubscription of another 60 million ordinary shares. When all these shares are paid up a capital of S30m will be provided for that one company. The Government is rushing into this field when there are private bodies which could do the very job we are asking the Corporation to do. I have always taken the view that if someone else will do the job, let him. I. remember quite some years ago in Queensland there was a rush by local authorities to take over bus services. Somebody said to me: 'Why do we not do it?' I said 'No, somebody else will do it. Let them do it.' 1 think  Senator Gair,  a former Premier of Queensland, will remember that quite a lot of those councils that took over bus services have paid dearly for them in deficits over a period of years. Bodies like Castlereagh Securities Ltd would operate better in this field than the Corporation. 
 Companies like Castlereagh Securities Ltd, when it is floated, would have to make a success  of  it. Otherwise the people who subscribed would not get dividends. They would probably achieve greater success than would a government instrumentality. Some people speak about not having overseas investment. The very structure of the Corporation, apart from the contribution of taxpayers' money, is  to be  built through borrowing money overseas. What is the difference? There are other ways in which the Government could help if it set its mind squarely on the subject. If  we  want to utilise Australian investment money to the fullest possible extent why does not the Government prevent overseas owned companies from borrowing capital in this country? They should be made to bring the money from their home countries. That would leave a wider field for our own investment money in Australian development. 
 I am quite in accord with it. Overseas companies should be made  to  get their money from overseas if they  do  not have Australian shareholders. They should definitely secure their money from overseas. I have nothing against overseas investment in Australia because it creates work for Australians and encourages development. More money is available for the people here to enjoy. 
 I am coming to that point. 
I agree. I think that is  a  very good point. These foreign companies should allow some Australian investment. The Government has not made that mandatory. 
 I think it would be a very desirable move to have Australian investment in those companies. The process that is being set up to get the Corporation established by borrowing money overseas reminds me of using a sledgehammer to crack a peanut. The Government has the means in its own hands by which it can develop our resources, as  Senator Gair  has suggested, through Australian investment. If the Government really felt strongly about this matter it. could decree that according to the capacity of the people to invest, a percentage of each company should be held by Australian investors. That is a blanket way of doing it. It is not necessary lo set up expensive structures such as the Australian Industry Development Corporation. That would be an easy way to tackle the problem. 
If 1 remember rightly, the Canadian Government has decreed that Canadians are to hold at least 30% of the shareholding in each company. A certain percentage must be set. From the information I have and from my general observation I doubt that we have in this country sufficient money available to secure 30% of all companies. But if the Government was in earnest and went about it in a proper way by setting a percentage to bs owned by Australians, that would be the easiest way out. There is nothing to stop the Government setting the level at 10% or 15% and increasing it as the country and the people became richer and better able to invest in companies. If the Government stopped overseas companies from borrowing in this country, permitting more capital to be available for Australian development and if it made it mandatory that overseas companies should have some percentage of Australian content, the Government would be doing a lot more than this legislation envisages. 
I know that a lot of people object to overseas investment but we have to be realistic. If it were not for overseas investment we could not develop as fast as we are. 1 know that my Queensland colleagues would agree with me on this. About 8 or 9 miles south of my own city of Mackay, a combined American-Japanese organisation is building a railway line a distance of about 175 miles to the west in order to bring coal to the coast. The organisation is building a harbour, lt will ship coal overseas. In turn, that will bring more money into this country. Further south, near Rockhampton, a similar setup is to be created by these people. Further south. Thiess Brothers Pty Ltd are establishing a similar setup. Right along the coast of Queensland this type of development is taking place, lt is taking place right around Australia. 
This involves a terrific sum of money. In one place S200m is spent and in another place S300m is spent. They are big sums for any country. I cannot see how this Corporation will accommodate propositions such as this. I do not think there is anything wrong with the investment of this type of money in Australia because it is creating development. If it is creating work for and giving money to our people it is doing something worthwhile. Honourable senators should not think that because this money comes from overseas we will never have anything of our own. Things change over a period of time. Our increasing affluence means that the people can invest more. There is nothing to slop Australians investing and taking shares in these companies if they want to. Even if the companies arc overseas companies, there are various methods by which Australians can participate. 
Other countries have succeeded with imported capital. Great Britain is one. Over the years it has imported lots of capital to help it develop its businesses and its industries. The great United States of America that we see today that is pouring so much investment into this country, in relation to which there seems to be some opposition, was built up through people bringing money into the country and investing it there. I recall to the minds of those honourable senators who remember the last World War that, when Britain was on her knees because of the fight that she and her allies were putting up for democracy and for the freedom of the people, she had to sell a lot of her assets in America in order to pay her commitments to America. The sum she realised on her assets was a very large one. That indicates that British investors were in the United States to a very great extent. I still think that in the United States - and I believe this to be correct - there is still a lot of money which has been imported from other countries and which has been invested which is helping to develop the United States even further. 
Looking at the Bill, I think the Corporation is an expensive proposition and an extra instrumentality which is not necessary because we have the Australian Resources Development Bank Ltd. I do not think there is any need for the Corporation because if 1 bank can handle these financial matters why do we need a second institution to provide the kind of money that will he required to carry out what is in the minds of a lot of people? Australians should help in the preparation of industry in this country. I do not think it would be possible for the Corporation to secure the amounts required. Thousands of millions of dollars are necessary. 1 am quite sure that the Corporation will not be able to find such large amounts. 1 have had approaches from people whom I have known in business and as a director of a company. Castlereagh Securities is one firm that is raising this kind of money today. Why do we want to be in this business when others will do it and when we already have the Resources Bank which can carry out this business at present? 1 think the legislation contains some dangerous propositions. One of the best articles I. have seen on this legislation was an article in 'Jobson's Digest'. The article is a rather interesting one. lt states: 
As if lo ensure that the Corporation has complete freedom of manoeuvre to do just what it likes wilh Australian business,  there  is the truly amazing and most extraordinary clause of all in the Bill, designed obviously lo put it completely beyond any legal challenge. This is clause 8, section 6 which should be read over and over again by Australian businessmen and all who are concerned lo know about possible involvements by Government in their business affairs.  referring to clause 8 (6.) the article continues: 
The exercise of any powers by the Corporation is not valid, and shall not be called into question, by reason of any failure of the Corporation to comply wilh any of its obligations under this section. 
Honourable senators heard  Senator Greenwood  speak very fluently and very ably on that today. The article continues: 
In other words even the vague safeguards involved in the sub-sections quoted above - the: safeguard provided by consent being required before a company can be 'assisted' by the Corporation - can be overriden through 8 (6.). which will validate any action whatever by the Corporation. This is the basis for fears that the Corporation will be a vehicle for undue interference in the affairs of companies and a vehicle ultimately for nationalisation. 
There are no real safeguards against any action by the Corporation on account of any of the apparent 'safeguards' written into clause 8 of the Bill because they are all negated by 8 (6.). 
I register my opposition to the Bill. I did not have the opportunity to do so during the debate on the second reading of the Bill. I register my opposition because I do not think the Corporation is necessary. If it were not for overseas investment at present this country would not be increasing its exports and earning overseas credit to the extent that it is. According to the estimates released by the Minister for National development  (Mr Swartz),  it will not be many years before our income from projects financed by overseas capital will increase very greatly. Ultimately it will put this country on a much better footing than it is now. Over the years one of the most crippling things in this country - one of its greatest drawbacks - has been an adverse balance of trade. I believe that when this trend can be reversed and we have a credit in our overseas trading it will be a great day for this country. If the Government were really keen about bringing in more Australian investment, there are ways of doing this. By legislation the Government would make it mandatory for companies to have a percentage of Australian capital instead of using this legislation. It would be much easier to do. 
If the Government thinks that some overseas companies are getting away with certain things, such as our primary products, without doing enough, why does it not bring in legislation by which these companies can be made to process the raw materials in this country. That is one way by which national income from overseas could be increased greatly. The Government could get overseas companies to process the goods in this country. In some cases the value of the primary materials would rise astronomically and would make a wonderful difference to our overseas credit balance. I oppose the legislation because I think there is no necessity for it. We already have the Resources Bank which will do everything that has been set for it. I believe that the necessity will be to import overseas capital on which we will have to pay interest. That is very little different from paying dividends on money which is brought into this country by way of investment. I do not think that the Corporation could profitably invest money in companies that had to wait a long time to show returns from big projects. This has happened with Mount. Isa Mines Ltd and with the other big projects which I mentioned earlier. This Corporation is another instrumentality for which there is no necessity. This country could concentrate in other directions by which the people could obtain a greater participation in companies. As I mentioned earlier, if the Government wants to keep as much Australian capital as possible for Australian investment it should stop overseas companies from raising loans in Australia. This is something which should be looked at in a more businesslike way. The overall picture should be looked at to decide what might be done for the enlargement, of Australian capital in overseas firms which come here. Other countries such as Canada have done this. If that were done here it would be simpler and much more beneficial. 
 Australian companies or overseas companies? 
 No doubt certain companies ask for aid. I think by the means which 1 have put forward a lot of this could be cured. 
 Financial accommodation, yes. That indicates to me just what I have said. The Australian people have to learn about investment. It is now a few years since  Senator Gair  moved out of the sphere he was in and in which, no doubt, he had contact with the situation. I think the situation has changed greatly from what it was then. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, never before have the Australian people really invested in mining and oil development to the extent to which they have now. 
 I know there are other industries. There is no doubt that mining companies are raising sufficient money on the stock market for these sorts of things. Even big companies such as Mount Isa 
Mines Ltd needed something, as  Senator Gair  would know because of certain assistance he gave in days gone by. 
Yes, of course. That was an overseas investment. If a company is to expand the only way in which it can do so is to float sufficient capital. However, I cannot see the necessity for this Corporation. I have pointed out other means by which I think a much more sensible effort could be made. Probably, as time goes on, we may see a conflict between this Corporation and the Australian Resources Development Bank. 
Why the 2 instrumentalities are necessary I do not know. The Government is duplicating expense by having 2 set-ups, 2 staffs, and so on. The Federal authorities have grandiose ideas. Money is nothing to them. Honourable senators see the way money is spent around this place. We see it spent around other places. We see SI 00m given here and a few million dollars given to another country. We see fountains being built here when people in the outlying places of Queensland cannot even get water, roads, and things like these. It is the Government's job to have a business outlook and to make the greatest use of the money it has. The Government is telling everybody to restrict their spending because things are tough, and it does not want any pressure. This Commonwealth Government should set an example but it does not set the example. It wants everyone else to cut down on expenditure but it has the most grandiose ideas of expenditure at a time when it is telling people things are tough. 
I remember back in the 1960s when this Government introduced credit squeeze measures, which I opposed. What was it doing? It was spending money on the cutting down of trees in avenues in this city of Canberra, and it was doing other things. Everybody else had to be on short rations, but not the Commonwealth Government. It is time it learnt its own lesson and set an example to other people before it asks them to do what it does not do itself. I oppose this legislation.  16320/70-  S.-lSl] 
The amendments are in accord with the principle that has been expounded in the Senate for some time. I see nothing wrong with them. I think their purpose is to keep the control of such expenditure in the hands of the Parliament. As parliamentarians we should be keen to see that as much control as possible remains in the hands of the Parliament. I know there is a tendency to take more and more unto the Ministers or the Executive. I think, as parliamentarians, we should stand up for the rights of Parliament wherever possible. As honourable senators know, I have been  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for many years. We stand very strongly for this principle. Protection of the rights of parliamentarians to ensure that they have the closest scrutiny possible of these matters is a good thing. That is what the amendments provide.  Senator McManus  is not present at the moment. He said that he did not think Parliament should be made a wages tribunal. I do not consider the amendments will have that effect. I believe that parliamentarians should have the right of knowing and of deciding whether such payments are in accord w.th what they think should be paid. The people to whom the amendments refer - as has been the case with several previous amendments - are people in positions of some significance. Therefore their salaries should have the close scrutiny of Parliament. 1 propose 10 support the amendments. 
I wish to say a few words on this Bill. 

 Senator Turnbull brought forward the point of the difference between the allowances for senators and members of the House of Representatives. We know that the allowance for a senator is now comparable with that for a member representing a city electorate. In my opinion, this has always been a very unfair attitude. If a senator does his or her job properly there is no question that he or she has a much greater area to cover. 
I am not suggesting that senators should receive increased allowances, but  1  believe that the position that existed years ago should have been retained. If I remember rightly, at one time members of the House of Representatives and the Senate were on the same basis, but the government of the day introduced legislation to increase the allowances of members of the House of Representatives and, despite the discrepancy that was caused, said: 'Either you take it in toto or you do not receive anything at all'.  1  remember talking to senators at that time.  1  well remember the interjections from my colleague  Senator Lillico.  I am not talking about myself; I am talking about any senator who moves around and makes his donations to organisations. If  Senator Lillico  will bear with me for a minute,  1  would like to remind the Senate that when that legislation came forward  1  warned senators that they were putting themselves in a position inferior to that of members of the House of Representatives. As a consequence of their not listening to me at that time, we have this discrepancy today. 
It is very easy for people to say what they spend on parliamentary duties and other things; but I am of the opinion that a member of the House of Representatives would not spend any more than a member of the Senate would.  1  have served not only in the Senate but as mayor of my city for many years. I suppose that no-one is approached for donations and subscriptions more than is a mayor of a city. He is a sitting shot for everybody. So, some of the stories I have heard from members of the House of Representatives as to what donations, subscriptions and so on cost them leave me a little cold because I believe that it is a case of drawing the long bow. But, whatever is the correct amount, I believe that honourable senators should think about the point  Senator Turnbull  brought forward.  1  am of the opinion that there is no reason why members of the House of Representatives should be put in any position superior to that of senators. 

 Senator O'BYRNE (Tasmania) [S.2SJ - My remarks will be very brief. I am very disappointed that the Senate is allowing this amending legislation to be presented without giving it more thought and without reviewing in depth the anomaly that exists between the 2 Houses  of  the Parliament. In the final analysis what has happened is that, after a very strong protest on the last occasion this matter came before the Senate, quite a number of people on the Government side joined with us on the Opposition side to point out the anomaly existing between the allowances of a member of the House of Representatives in a city electorate and of a senator. The difference was a matter of $100. The Government has now found its way clear to correct that anomaly. But  1  believe that the Senate is being treated with scant courtesy, to use the most polite expression. 
Senators have a responsibility to move around their electorates. In this day and age a senator cannot move around his electorate without a car. In many States there are not facilities for air travel between major provincial towns. Honourable senators have to use their cars and a lot of people overlook the fact that a car deteriorates these days over a period of 4 or 5 years. Deterioration can amount to anything up to  $750  a year. With petrol and other expenses a car could take up the whole of a senator's expenses of $2,750. This is just for his transport. This is besides the increasing costs of accommodation when senators visit other cities and the like. I have gone into that detail only to point out that the difference between the expenses  of  a senator and a member of the House  of  Representatives in country electorates is so small that a complete review should  be  made of the traditional difference between the Senate and House  of  Representatives. 
I am very pleased to see this move for the appointment of committees of the Senate. 1 think it is a forward step towards bringing honourable senators outside of the Ministry into much closer contact with the work of the Parliament, lt should give honourable senators an opportunity to serve the Senate in a much better way than has been the case. I think that the committee system in this chamber, in whatever areas it has been used, has proved an excellent way in which to conduct the business of the Senate.  Senator Sim  referred to the formation of these Senate committees and he said it was to be hoped that Opposition senators would noi come on to the committees with a direction from somebody somewhere outside the Parliament. My own feeling is that ihe division of the Senate into committees could overcome the problem experienced in the past when some honourable senators have come into this chamber with fixed minds. 1 know it might be said this is airy-fairy or wishful thinking, but time and time again I have heard honourable senators. who have served on a committee which has consisted of senators from all parties, say how surprising it was to see honourable senators from the various political parlies working together and arriving at decisions. I think thai one of the most important aspects of committees is ihat by working closely together like this honourable senators get to know each other, they get to understand each other, and I think they can appreciate the other person's thinking and his ideas. Because of this I think that we bring ourselves closer to each oilier and we therefore arrive al a better decision. 
Over a period of years, and more particularly in recent years, select committees have been a feature of the Senate. I think thai those honourable senators who have served on these committees have found, in general, lhat most honourable senators work to try to understand the question which they have been asked to investigate. I have found that a similar situation has existed on other committees comprising members of the various parties with which I have been associated. I have served on the Join Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and on a couple of select committees. Ever since I came into the Parliament in 1 949 I have been a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and, as honourable senators know, for over 17 years 1 have served as  Chairman  of that 
Committee, lt is a standing committee of the Senate, lt consists of honourable senators from most sections of the Senate. 
 There is no representative of the DLP on the Committee, and I am sorry that there is not. At one time  Senator Byrne,  who sits behind  Senator Gair,  was a member of the Committee, but at that time he was not a member of the DLP. He was a sterling and splendid member of that Committee, and he gave great service to it. Although he belonged to a differed political party to me, I can say quite truthfully that never at any time did he take political stand on any matter. I want to say in fairness to the members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee who have been on the Committee during the time that I have been a member of it - and 1 have said this to my own colleagues, including  Senator Greenwood  and others - that I have never seen a member of Ihe Committee try to gain political advantage from the Committee, lt is a Committee on which a member could gain some political advantage. Probably an Opposition senator could try to gain something iti the expense of the Government, i think that my colleagues on the Government side who are members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee will agree with me when 1 say that no member of the Committee has tried to gain some political advantage from it. That is evidence to me that members of select committees or standing committees, such as the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, can work well together, irrespective of their political beliefs. 
I think that  Senator McManus,  another colleague of  Senator Gair,  served on the select committee which inquired into 'the question of payments to maritime un:ons. I was also a member of that committee. We also had a very fruitful and happy association on thai committee. Therefore, if the proposal to establish committees of ihe Senate is accepted in the right spirit and if honourable senators who are appointed to the committees work on the right basis for the good of ihe Parliament and of this country, I believe that a first class job can be done in relation to the legislation that is introduced into this Parliament. To me there seems to be an opportunity within the confines of the committee room for members of the committee to call before them the various people associated with the legislation and other people whom members of the committee might want to question. The system will open up a facet of investigation and research which has not been open to us as members of the Senate participating in debates in this open forum. I think that the committee system offers much greater scope to get information which is necessary for members of the Senate in order to make right decision upon matters. 
I think that we owe credit to the Standing Orders Committee of the Senate which originally considered this matter. I think that the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  is entitled to receive congratulations and appreciation for the work which he did in helping to guide the Standing Orders Committee and in the formation of the proposals which have come before us. We have 3 motions before us. I do not think that we should consider these motions on party lines because I believe that when the committees are working, as 1 said previously, they must adopt a non party attitude in dealing with legislation. As I have said, we have 3 motions before us. The first is from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  We have a second motion, which is the Government's motion, referring to the appointment of Estimates committees. Then, of course, we have the motion from the DLP which fits in, to a very great extent, with  Mr Odgers'  proposition. I think that I like the Opposition's motion best and then the Democratic Labor Party's motion. I feel that possibly the Opposition's motion is more positive in that it indicates that the committees should be set up in a definite fashion. The Democratic Labor Party tends to arrive at practically the same decision, only it seeks partially to introduce the system and then ultimately to develop it to fulfilment. 
Yes. I am sure that a lot of thinking has been put into  Senator Gair's  proposition, but my own feeling is that we should make a positive decision so that when we make it, it is firm, and then we can proceed to develop the system along certain lines. I feel that if we were to commence with two or three committees, at some time the excuse could be used: 'Oh, well, it has not worked and therefore we do not proceed with the proposition'. I should like the entire system to be introduced from the beginning. 
Of course, that is what is said, and I can quite understand that with a new system such as we are proposing there may be a feeling that it might not be a success. 
I know that  Senator Gair  is being sincere in what he says on this matter. I appreciate the sincerity in his thinking on it, but I am thinking that there could be elements in the Parliament who might say: 'We do not want this system,' and then after a trial period they could say: 'It has not been successful. We should forget about it.' Therefore, I would far sooner see the system introduced in toto, on a permanent and fixed basis. As to the fear that the system will not work, I think we have to remember that in the Senate we have 60 senators who are responsible people. Therefore, I cannot see why the committee system should fail. I think that the various committees that have been established in the Senate have been a success. The select committees have done a very good job and their reports have always been commended. Then we have the standing committees.  Senator Marriott  is the  chairman  of a very important committee, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which has done a very good job. I find that every time committees have been set up by this Senate they have excelled themselves and brought down excellent reports, which goes to show that senators have the ability to do this job. 
I know that with something new there can be a fear complex that it may not succeed. But I do not have any feeling that this proposal will not succeed. If it succeeds in the British Parliament, if it succeeds in the Canadian Parliament, and if it succeeds, as I understand it does, in New Zealand, are we to consider ourselves inferior in our capability to handle committees for consideration of legislation? Are we inferior to those other Parliaments? I would say thai members of those Parliaments would be fairly representative of the people of their countries, just as I think we are of ours, and I do not sec that there should be any fear about our committees failing. If we have faith in ourselves, if we feel we are capable enough, why not make a definite decision now in a complete way so that we can get a committee system going? 
I think this is a wonderful opportunity for the senators of this country to perform a service to their people in a much better way than possibly they have in the past. They will have a closer and greater responsibility for legislation and a much better knowledge of its origin and purpose. I feel that this movement is possibly the greatest step forward that has been taken by this Parliament of Australia since its inception in the early part of this century. I believe that whatever proposition is accepted ultimately, the Parliament and the people will say when they look back on this occasion that this has been the greatest event and the greatest day in any parliamentary history. I believe that this will be the situation if this Senate accepts this principle of having committees to deal with the legislative work of this Parliament. It would be a great tragedy if we lost this opportunity to implement this proposition in its fullest way. 
As I have said, I think both the first and the last of the propositions have very fine ideas and principles behind them. However, I feel that, weighing one against the Other, the first proposition from the Opposition Leader really has more definiteness about its commencement. To me it is something which will give more permanency and continuity to the work of dividing this Parliament into committees to make a much closer investigation of legislation. I think it should be clearly set out that when these committees function they should not be treated as committees which receive payment for committee work. Their job would be part of the parliamentary work in which we now participate, but done in a different way. Because the committees would be on parliamentary legislative work, consideration would have to be given to having some arrangement whereby the Senate would not sit while the committees were meeting, so that the committees could work in the most effective way and committee members would not lose opportunities to participate in the work of the Senate itself. These things should be clearly set out. Subject to that, I propose to vote for the proposal put forward by the Opposition. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria) [8.36J -  Mr Deputy President,  the area of inquiry which is opened up by these three propositions is enormously wide. One part of this area relates to the general purpose of the committees and the achievements which might be expected of them. Another obviously relates to the relationship of these committees and the decisions they report to the Parliament. When I say 'the Parliament', I emphasise the house of government, which is in the House of Representatives. Another pan of this area relates to how these committees most effectively work. Do they in fact take the place of the Senate for a time or do they act in an ancillary way complementary to ordinary Senate debates? I appreciate that all of these things cannot be canvassed in a reasonable time in a discussion on these matters. I personally feel that the committee system should be given a trial. But I have the gravest doubts as to whether it will work in the way some people expect. Speakers have been eulogising the various things which can be done by committees but I think they will come up against, in the long run, the rigours of the Party system. I appreciate fully what  Senator Wood  has said, what he seeks to achieve and the way in which he views the committee system working, but with all respect to him and with all respect to  Senator Murphy,  I think that there is a degree of unreality about the optimism which they express. 
I believe that we have to tread fairly cautiously in this area if there is to be any success attending the committees. We should not believe that we can impose a committee system on the Senate, as it were, overnight. A committee system is essentially inquisitorial; it probes, it seeks information, and that is not the pattern of our legislative activity. What do we do when we ask these questions and get our answers? We report to the Senate. But what form is that report to the Senate to take? Do we recommend a proposal, and if we recommend a proposal how do Government members fare when it happens that that proposal is contrary to some policy which the Government has laid down? How do Opposition members fare if in a sincere and enthusiastic way on their committee they come out with a proposal which they genuinely believe in but which runs counter to something which their Caucus has decided or will decide? Which is going lo prevail? I feel - and I trust I am not loo harshly realistic about this - that what would prevail would be the view of the party; the view of the Government which some members will support or of the Opposition which other members will support. 1 know that much enthusiasm for the proposal has been generated by the experience of senators on a number of Senate committees, f think the Senate can look back and point to the activities of some committees and say that the work done there has been worth while. One can take the Vincent. Committee on Australia's television and broadcasting, and one can indicate that there was a general concensus among the members of lhat commitee as lo certain proposals that were recommended. There has been, of course, the committee on the metric system of weights and measures, and there have been the commit.ee on air pollution and on water pollution. These committees have come forward with proposals which I think have won commendation; but they were in by and large non-controversial areas. There were some areas of dispute and, I suppose, idealogical conflict. An honourable senator says that health was one, and I agree, but generally speaking they were not areas of hot political controversy. I feel that the committee system in the Senate is likely to founder in the areas of hot political controversy, and if a committee system is to be worth while it would have to go into cooler areas. 

 - Mr Deputy President, as I think I indicated before, had the first motion not been carried I would have supported the present one, because both motions have much merit. However, the first one was carried, and in my opinion the usual practice is that when 2 motions are identical in general effect the first one should take precedence, having been carried, and the second should be dispensed with. That is the practice in most organisations or bodies. I do not think that the motion in relation to the Estimates, which was carried, was necessary. However, it can live with the first one. To carry the third motion together with the first and second motions would produce a ridiculous position. I supported the first motion which was carried. 
 Do not worry- 
 I want  Senator Gair  to know that I will not sell myself to anybody. I am not prepared to make a speech in this place to win support from  Senator Gair  or from anyone else. I think in fairness it can be said that my attitude in the 20 years or so that I have been in the Senate has been one of honesty and sincerity. I have never sought position or pandered to anybody for a position. I do not think anybody could say that I have aimed for a ministerial post in this Party. We will be reaching a ridiculous situation if this motion is carried as well as the first and second motions. Who then will sort out what the Senate really means? 
 Senator Rae  suggests that it will go back to the Standing Orders Committee, in other words, the honourable senator is indicating that the Standing Orders Committee is above the Parliament. So far as I am concerned it is not above the Parliament, lt is the Senate which which should make a decision as to how the Senate should operate. I propose to show the conflict between these 2 motions. The first motion set out the different committees to be appointed and the interpretation is that those committees are to be set up as soon as possible, meaning in the immediate future. 
No. 1 did not vole for the second motion because I thought the first one was complete in itself. However, 1 felt that the second motion could Jive with the first motion, but I. do not accept that the third motion can live wilh the first and second motions. Let me analyse the situation for honourable senators. The first motion carried set out the committees and indicated that they were to be set up forthwith, or as soon as possible. But the third motion lo which we are now speaking indicates that the committees shall be set up over a period of not less than 12 months, lt. indicates further that the committees are to be set up in accordance wilh the report of ihe Standing Orders Committee. My recollection is that the report does not set out exactly the same committees as those mentioned in the first motion which we carried. If anybody can tell me how this can be interpreted as a direction from the Senate, if the 3 motions are' carried, he is better than I am at sifting out what is really intended, lt would be impossible to interpret the 3 motions as one. Yet that is what will have to be done if this motion is carried. 
The first motion mentioned different committees and that motion, if I remember correctly, dealt with matters relating to finance. Those committees relating to finance could also cover the committees in the Government's motion. But this motion conflicts with the first one in particular and in those circumstances 1 cannot see why the Senate should now consider it, having carried the first motion. 
 I am saying that normal practice, where a motion  is in  conflict with a motion already carried,  is to  register automatic dissent. 
1 am talking about this motion. 
Lel me say in plain English that if Ihe Senate carries this motion, having already carried the first 2 motions, it makes the situation look ridiculous. 
It is saying to the public of Australia that the Senate does not know its own mind, that it doss not know what it wants. I suggest that the Senate should speak clearly on these matters. Having made a decision as to what the committees should be, their processes and so on, we should stick to that decision and reject any further motions which will merely develop complexities, misunderstandings and difficulties. The motion should be rejected. I shall oppose it. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia) 1.10.6] - I support what  Senator Murphy  has said.  Senator Murphy  said that the resolution moved by him and carried by the Senate is not inconsistent with the second motion proposed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  and that it is possible for both these propositions to operate at the one time. But let us consider the effect of the motion proposed by  Senator Gair.  The first clause of his motion states: 
The Senate accepts and approves the principle of Standing Committees of the Senate appropriate to various areas of Departmental administration. 
I would again like to ask the Acting Minister for Immigration a question. I ask: Cannot the Government  consider a case such as this as a human case and not just a legal technicality? 
I ask the Acting Minister for Immigration a question in regard to the Taylor case. In view of the Press reports that  Mrs Taylor  is said to have been living apart from her husband for 12 months and also that her husband will be initiating legal proceedings in regard to the children, would it not be more appropriate to arrange for an adjustment of the fares in respect of these people and then to allow the legal proceedings to be taken by the husband overseas? Does it not seem rather strange for the Commonwealth Government to be deporting people in connection with what might be a family estrangement? 
My question to the Acting Minister for Immigration is in relation to the Taylor case. In view of the fact that  Mrs Taylor  and her children are being deported because of a legal defect in regard to her coming to Australia and bearing in mind that the father desires the children, does the Minister know whether any investigations have been made as to  Mrs Taylor  herself? Also, in view of the fact that she is reported to have lived apart from her husband for 12 months, have any investigations been made as lo whether the father of the children has kepi the children during that period or been associated with them in any way? I would also like to ask the Minister: In view of the fact that we go to a great deal of expense and trouble to secure migrants for this country does it seem a very worthwhile thing to deport someone because of a legal defect if that person very strongly desires to live in this country? 
lt is very difficult to make a decision on these Bills for more than 1 reason. First of all, the Bills have been introduced for the purpose of giving the States a source of revenue which some of them have exploited or used far some little lime in the past. Because of the proved illegality of the tax thai the Stales were collecting, they have sought this legislation and, as a consequence of a promise by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  it is before the Senate tonight. We as senators representing our respective Slates do not necessarily want to do anything to injure State Parliaments and State authorities. But this tax has been imposed because of the difficulty experienced by the Stales in finding sufficient revenue. This tax was introduced for the purpose of raising some additional revenue for the States. 
As we know, some years ago uniform taxation was introduced, and the avenues by which State governments collect money have been limited. As a consequence, over a period of years a completely new system has been introduced under which the States can receive funds. We know that each year the State Premiers meet with the Prime Minister and the Federal Treasurer. They decide what the States should receive from the Commonwealth which, of course, is the source of tax collection today. We know, loo, that there are always disputes about the amount of money which is received by the States. The Commonwealth thinks thai it gives them enough, but the States never think that they have received enough. So we find that difficulty arises in the discussion which takes place. Naturally the Stales are thinking up ways and means by which they can overcome what appears to them to be a very definite shortage of funds for their purposes, and to enable them to carry out their functions. We find that some of the States are imposing receipts tax and, as a consequence they are very keen on it. My awn State of Queensland hiss not imposed the receipts tax on the people in the same way as some of the other Slates have imposed it. Therefore, as a Queenslander 1 believe that, although this tax will benefit some Stales by allowing those Slates to retain certain revenues raised in the Stales, to the people of my Slate of Queensland it will be an extra taxation burden with which they are not plagued at the present time. Therefore, I am not in accord with the imposition of the tax and cannot support it in those circumstances. 
There are various other aspects of receipts tax which I do not like. I think it is a bad tax. lt is a type of tax which 1 think most of us believe should not be imposed, lt is a lax upon the purchase price of goods. From information which I have received, I believe that the tax will result in increased cast of living in certain respects. Organisations have written to me about different products, such as groceries. Materials are received from the source of supply and they are manufactured into various articles. The tax could be imposed at each stage in the production of various articles and this could, 1 believe, add considerably to the cost of some goods. I believe that an increase in the price of goods is a very serious matter. Although this country is very prosperous at the present time, stresses are appearing in certain sectors of the economy and they are causing a process of inflation which nobody wants to see occur. Any increase in the price of goods in this country, especially if it results in increased wages, can have a repeating effect. This is the sort of thing that we do not want to stimulate in any shape or form. Therefore, this indicates that receipts tax is a vew bad type of tax. 1 think that other taxes can be imposed which are not nearly so injurious to the country's economy as is this receipts tax. Consequently, I do not think it is the type of tax that anyone would want imposed. 
Personally, I think that the receipts tax also places an extra work load on the various businesses which have to provide returns and collect the tax. The more taxes which we ask business organisations to collect the more difficult and costly we make it for these businesses to operate. As a consequence I think it is a retrograde form of taxation, lt seems to me that the overall question of Commonwealth-State finances has to be reconsidered. I know that the Commonwealth will say: 'We are giving the States as much as we can'. But consideration should be given not only to the amounts of finance which the States have been receiving but also to the extra amounts that they can receive and to the ways in which various governments can make economies. 
I know it is rather easy for the Commonwealth Government to say: 'This is all you are getting, so you will have to cut your cloth according to your means'. But I think the time has come for the Commonwealth Government to give very earnest consideration to the question of cutting its own cloth according to its means. When money is divided between the Commonwealth and the Stales, I think it is necessary not only for the States to be prudent in their expenditure, but also for the Commonwealth to be prudent in its expenditure, lt is no use arguing that Commonwealth expenditure is always necessary. A desired speed in development is required by the Federal organisations and instrumentalities, and the same desired speed in development is required by the States. There are a number of areas in which no doubt the Commonwealth could make some economies. It could slow down the rate of spending. Each year, there is a considerable increase in certain areas of budget expenditure. 
Let us consider this city in which we sit as a parliament. I know that there is a tendency to build it as quickly as possible. We speak of grandiose schemes which cost a lot of money. But as one who has participated in local government for many years I know how local authorities have to cut their cloth very severely in accordance with their limited revenue. When  I  go around this city and see the speed with which it is being developed 1 think that perhaps it could be slowed down. I know that people will say: 'But you have to do it. It is the national capital.' i am one who has quite an appreciation of planning work because I pioneered town planning in this country. My city of Mackay was the first to put municipal planning into effect. So I know what I am talking about in this regard. 
In building a city, the more you rush it the more defects you will find that it has. I feel that there is not really a very urgent need to shift people from Melbourne or Sydney to Canberra. Let us do this work at a slower speed. There are pressures on the economy. Let me take a look at some of the expenditure we have had in Canberra. The lake was a very functional part of the town plan of Canberra - probably the only truly functional part. But was there an urgent need for it? Of course not. Was there an urgent need for the fountain which we see playing in the lake and which had to be the biggest and the highest because it was in Canberra 
That is right. What happens to this magnificent fountain when a wind blows? Instead of looking like a fountain it looks like a foggy cloud. Such things cost a lot of money. I am keen on fountains but let us have some beauty. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator should come back to the Bill. 
Oh, no. Fountains shoot up. I am telling how the Commonwealth can reduce its expenditure by not rushing in to do things for which there is not a great deal of urgency. The great cities of the world were not built in a day. Those that were rushed up are creaky at the joints and there is always something wrong with them. Big cities are much better if they grow and mature slowly. In the long run, they are much belter for having done that. There is an urgency about spending money in Canberra. 

 A similar situation applies in regard to our expenditure in other places. We are ladling out money in New Guinea, but what thanks does the Australian taxpayer get? All we get are groans, moans, complaints and so on. 1 think we gave Indonesia  $100m  recently. I have mentioned this fact before. What thanks did we get? There are lots of ways in which we can save money. We need not try to picture ourselves as a great world power. Vast sums are expended each year on our embassies overseas and things of that nature. I often wonder how it has come about that we regard ourselves as a world power. Actually. Australia is very small in the councils of the world, lt often makes me wonder why we need so many embassies strung around the world. I think Australia would be much better off if it concentrated on trading posts instead of embassies and that sort of thing. 
I am not suggesting that they would amount to $70m, but when one cuts down on expenditure a few million dollars here and a few million dollars there and quite a number of million dollars somewhere else it is marvellous what one can do. Local government has to frame its budget according to its means because its revenue is strictly limited. So it should be with the Commonwealth. The Slates are in a straightjacket insofar as finance is concerned. I think it is up to the Commonwealth Government to set an example. The Commonwealth Government is continually telling people that because of stresses on the economy expenditure must be reduced, but what does it do to set an example? lt does not set an example. If the Commonwealth Government wants others to do things it should set an example and show that these things can be done. lt is moss regrettable that some honourable senators will not be supporting the legislation which is before the Senate. I know that if this legislation is not implemented it will cause trouble to some of the States and will probably cause strong feelings. However, 1 believe that there must be another way to attack the problem. As the taxing authority it is the Commonwealth's responsibility to ensure that the States receive enough finance to carry on their work in a proper manner. 
I am not one of those who say that funds can be just wafted out of the air. I heard  Senator Keeffe  say that during a war funds can be obtained. 1 want to point out to him that this is peace time. In war time a nation is geared for a greater contribution During war time there are loan funds and so on and people have a different outlook. People are spurred on because of the dire necessity to do something in order to build the country's effort to its highest peak to prosecute the war. In peace time one has to take into consideration human nature. People go about their normal pursuits in a peaceful manner and there is no urgent desire to do these things. I do not think that any real argument can be advanced by contrasting what is spent in war lime with what is spent in peace time. 
As the Commonwealth is the main source of taxation collection in Australia it has to decide what rale of taxation should bc imposed so that not only the Commonwealth but also the States will have sufficient finance to carry on in a proper way. The Commonwealth Government is asking others to make sure that they spend their money in an economical and  effective  manner. I think thai it should set an example to the others. 
I appreciate that certain States are looking forward to this legislation going through the Parliament but I regret to say that 1 cannot support it. I know that the Stales which would benefit considerably from this legislation will probably be very hostile if the legislation does not receive the support of the Parliament. My own State of Queensland would benefit only in a minor way if this receipts tax were to be implemented. 1 believe that this legislation would impose an extra burden upon Queensland which 1, as a senator representing Queensland in the Senate, am not prepared to subscribe to. As a consequence, I shall vote against the legislation. 
Motion (by  Senator Gair)  agreed to: 
Thai the question be now put. (The bells being rung) - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - That is correct. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)-  Yes. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)-  Order! The ruling of the Chair is that the Senate will vote on each Bill individually. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read  a second  time. 
The Senate has before it a motion and an amendment. Between the two, as has been said, there is very little difference. Just the same, there are what might be termed minor aspects which should be considered. The proposition presented to us for consideration originally by the Australian Democratic Labor Party was preferable to that which was suggested originally by the Australian Labor Party. The Opposition's motion has been amended. 1 think that possibly the motion as amended may have some appeal to me. However it is my intention to support the proposal of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Views have been expressed regarding the number of senators who can serve on these committees. The new indication is that each committee shall consist of 6 senators comprising 3 Government senators to be appointed by the Leader of the Government, 2 Opposition senators to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition and 1 senator from the minority groups. I believe that this proposal will give a better spread of the work on the respective committees among senators. This would probably be preferable to having a definite number of 8 senators. In addition provision is made whereby the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition may each appoint 2 additional senators to any committee. I look upon this aspect as being of some value insofar as we know that some of the legislation which comes before us would not require a very great deal of investigation. Other legislation is more important and as a consequence it may need a bigger number of senators, I should imagine, in order to give more importance to the findings of the committee when they are presented to the Senate. In that respect it does appeal to me. 

 Senator Byrne's statement that the amendment provides a definite position for the independent senator on one committee is, of course, correct. I do not see the difficulty which may possibly be seen in the motion in regard to the independent senator because it states that in the event of no agreement being reached by the minority groups, the appointment of a member of the minority groups shall be resolved by the Senate. 
 We are trying to work out what is the best for the Parliament. 1 interpret this motion to mean that if there were a difference between the Democratic Labor Party and the senator concerned it would then come before the Senate for a decision. 1 doubt very much if the Senate would not agree to having an independent senator on a committee. My interpretation is that this as a safeguard to ensure that some justice is done to the independent member. 
 I know it provides for one member. I think there is probably a little more elasticity in this. For instance, there may be individual senators who may have certain qualifications and the Democratic Labor Party may feel that a person should not be on one committee but that he should be on other committees because of his special qualifications. I do not see any difficulty there, lt appeared to me that if an independent senator had special qualifications he could possibly serve on more than one committee. 1 know that it might be said that a person is only entitled to be on 1 committee but I should think that the aim of the Senate in setting up these committees is to try to get the best people we can who have some understanding of the workings of particular committees. Here we have two pro posals which do not differ to a vet) great extent. The only difference of importance is that in accordance with the present motion a Minister shall not be appointed as a member of a committee. That is. of course, very important to ensure that committees do not have some influence from the ministerial side of Parliament. The aspect of the original motion which concerned me was that there was too much control by Ministers and the heads of parliamentary parties. In the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  that earlier indication is not evident. Looking at it on a balance, it seems to me that the motion has appeal, particularly in relation to the size of a committee and the elasticity provided by having b goer committees to cope with work of a more important nature. 
 A variety of factors have caused that as I am sure  Senator Murphy  acknowledges. One of the factors is the very obvious and evident factor that there is a general availability of money and an excessive consumer spending which is competing for a relatively limited supply of goods and services. In that situation there is incipient inflation which any government must be concerned to acknowledge and be prepared to take steps to control in the budgetary provisions which it makes. 
The Government therefore was faced with the necessity by taxation of cutting down the avenues in which this consumer spending would find expression. Basically I believe that that is the reason why the indirect taxes were imposed. I think it is a wise and prudent step for the Government to move into the field of indirect taxation for the purpose of controlling inflation. I know it is a vogue in some writings overseas to contrast the efficacy of fiscal control with monetary control with a view to preventing or controlling cyclical fluctuations. But I think insufficient use has been made of fiscal control by indirect taxes because it has a flexibility and a use which can be applied far more readily than some aspects of monetary control. Nevertheless in expressing those views which are not deeply researched but merely an expression of opinion which one hears I think the Government did acknowledge the condition of the economy and recognise that it was one of the backgrounds in respect of which its Budget had to be implemented. 
I think the third factor - I have touched on this in part - which was a determining factor in the Budget was the need to offer  some  taxation relief. In October 1969 the Government fought an election on the clear promise that, over a period of 3 years, it would give taxation relief in an amount of $200m. In the months preceding the Budget pressures of enormous weight were felt from many of the sources which are now, in varying degrees, critical of the Budget. It was suggested the Government was, in some way, not going to honour its promise. The Government had a promise to honour and it did honour that promise. It seems strange when one reads the remarks made by  Mr Whitlam  and when one listens to what  Senator Murphy  has said in this chamber that they now find in some way that what the Government has done is reprehensible. This should not be forgotten. Far too much of this contradictory policy is being followed by the Opposition. After having said one thing it does another thing. Its attitude with regard to this Budget exemplifies this contradictory policy. Only in the last election  Mr Whitlam  was saying that he too would offer tax relief and people could be assured that the Labor Party would be more generous with its tax relief than the Government would be. Yet now, as T understand what is being said by the Opposition, this type of tax relief which has been offered by the Government is in some way reprehensible. 
Senate point by point what the war was costing every year, lt is about 300m or S400m a year. 
I did desire to say something about what I feel is one of the distinctive features of this Budget, namely, the enhanced provision for the States. We have developing in Australia in our constitutional framework a situation which 1 think bodes ill for the nation unless action is taken to consider the stage that we have reached and the remedial action that should be taken. It is unfortunate that after 70 years of federation there have been some 25 efforts to amend the Constitution and only 5 have been successful. We find on all sides rh difficulties which are brought about because of a division of powers and the lack of a financial structure which will permit a responsibility in government in the States and an autonomy which will enable the States to enact what they consider to be best for their local area. This, of course, was never the intention of the founders of the Constitution. It is something which has developed over the years as a result of wartime exigencies, decisions of the High Court of Australia and ingenious and unintended applications of powers by the Commonwealth Government. 
At present the Commonwealth Government is responsible almost entirely for the raising of governmental revenues in this country. T appreciate that the States do have a limited residual revenue raising power but it is not capable of extension or flexibility as the requirements of a State government may demand. I appreciate also that within the local government area there is a certain power of revenue raising but it is not of the character which is necessary to sustain the kinds of expenditure which local governments these days are contemplating. In these circumstances, as I see the position, there is a need for the powers which are exercised by the Commonwealth Government and the powers which are exercised by the State governments to be considered wilh a view to determining whether they are the appropriate heads of power in 1970. It seems extraordinary that there should be a suggestion, without more, that because it was good enough in 1900 when the Constitution was founded it must be good enough in 1970. I would have thought that without anything else there could be at least an inquiry, an investigation in some depth, with a view to determining whether some of the powers of the States should not be properly transferred to the Commonwealth and. indeed, whether some of the powers of the Commonwealth could not be properly exercised by the States. 
It is destructive of what is best in government when we have a situation such as exists at present when the Commonwealth has a virtual responsibility for almost every governmental service provided by it and by the States. That is not as it should be. That situation exists because in respect of whatever the States would like to do and find they are unable to do they can attribute their inability to the reluctance of the Commonwealth to provide the money. One can take an easy illustration in the field of education. We know that in the last election campaign and beyond there was a great campaign centred upon the expression 'Federal aid for state schools'. The implication was that the Federal Government should provide money for schools which were the responsibility of the State governments. The Commonwealth has no responsibility whatsoever under the Constitution in regard to education, whether it be independent school education or State school education. Such activity as the Commonwealth has developed in this area, and such further activities as some want the Commonwealth to develop in this area, derive from the fact that there is a power to make financial grants to the States and, as a condition of those grants, there can be imposed a requirement as to bow the money is to be expended. 
The result is that whenever there is a demand for education or for any other social service which normally would be a State responsibility, the pressures upon the Commonwealth to respond in that area are pressures to which no government can fail to respond. When that situation exists it ceases to be so much a matter of the areas in which the Government can work: it becomes a matter of what money the central government is to provide. This to me is fundamental in any assessment of the existing Commonwealth and State relationship. 
This Budget of the Gorton Government recognises the need for further finance by the State governments. In February of this year the Premiers Conference at which the States had expected to have their State income tax powers restored to them, or at least where they made an appeal for those powers to be restored to them, was concluded with an assurance by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that consultations between State and Commonwealth Treasury officials would provide some means of resolving this position by the time the June conference of Premiers took place. What the Prime Minister promised did take place. At the Premiers Conference in June the States in fact were given an increase in their base grant, the amounts which they were to receive each year were increased, the question of their debts was acknowledged by the assurance that over a 5-year period $ 1,000m would be provided interest free and, in addition, over a 5-year period approximately $ 1,000m of the existing State debt would be taken over. 
In this Budget, as I have said, the States have been granted an amount which represents one-third of Commonwealth expenditure and, for the States, a 12 per cent increase on the amounts that they had received in other years. That, in a very real way, alleviates some of the more pressing parts of the problems they have experienced. It does not go anywhere near the whole way towards giving the States autonomy in areas where they should have autonomy, but I do not believe that in the financial field a situation is likely to be reached in which there will be satisfaction in the sense that the States will have a degree of autonomy and the Commonwealth will be able to say: There are no responsibilities of ours in this area'. I hope that arising from this Budget there will be some further consideration of the position of the States in the light of the Australian constitutional situation, and that sooner rather than later we can have some convention or, if not a convention, some investigation, some inquiry in depth, into whether the existing situation is satisfactory. i am happy to recognise the responsibility which is inherent in the Budget. I think that the criticism that it is negative and deceptive is borne out neither by a critical examination of the Budget nor by anything which the Opposition has said to support its amendment. 
 I. bring up the Thirty-fourth Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Bankruptcy (Offences) Rules contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 87, together with minutes of evidence and move: 
That the Report and minutes of evidence be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 am very strongly opposed to the suggestion that Senate select committees or other committees should be sitting during the sitting of the Senate or on an occasion when the Senate divides itself into committees to consider the Estimates. The Estimates are an important section of the Senate's work. If other committees take honourable senators away from the Estimates Committees of the Senate then it makes for an incomplete job to be done on that work. These are the Estimates providing for the expenditure of the funds of this Commonwealth during the ensuing 12 months. Therefore 1 think that nothing should be done to take honourable senators away from that work. I know that people probably feel that some of these other committees may have some importance but they are no more important than the work of these Estimate Committees which is directly the work of the Senate. Under those circumstances I think it is wrong to have such committees sitting. For practically 18 years I have been  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and have been a member of that Committee for a little longer than that. That Committee never sits while the Senate sits. That is a standing rule so far as the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is concerned. That is why honourable senators will find that Committee at work at 9 a.m. in this building. I strongly oppose this suggestion that select committees and other committees outside the Estimates Committees and the Senate itself should sit when those Estimates Committees and the Senate are sitting. I think to allow that would detract from the work of the Senate. 
I think the committee system which operated in connection with the Estimates has proved a real success. It gave those of us who sat on those committees an opportunity to question in a way we have not been able to do before. In this chamber we have only 5 Ministers. They do a terrific job in coping with all the other portfolios as well as their own. I am sure in the past it has been a difficult matter for them to obtain answers to questions from the officers at the side of the chamber. But in the committees the officers have sat with them. Honourable senators have been able to direct questions to the Minister and directly to the officers through the Minister. 
I think we obtained much more information than would be humanly possible under the old system. That was of real benefit and it gave honourable senators a much closer understanding of the workings of the departments, their aims and what they were trying to do with the various items of expenditure. It gave us an opportunity to question in detail the expenditure and the workings of the departments. I feel the system has been a success. I hope that success will generate further action in this Senate which may lead to legislative aspects of the committee system. This is a new departure for the Senate. It is a fresh break in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament. I hope it will continue because 
I believe that properly handled it will help to make this Parliament much better than it has been in the past. Success depends upon honourable senators themselves and the opportunity given to them. 1 think if that opportunity is availed of by honourable senators we will reach the aim which each and every one of us clearly hope will be achieved from the workings of these committees. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 3, standing on the notice paper in my name. 
 Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report lo the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that certain banks which have granted overdrafts to their customers are now using forceful and threatening measures to have such overdrafts reduced within a very short time? Does the Minister not consider that such drastic actions are likely to create panic in the business and rural community and are not in accordance with what should be expected from a banking system which has a monopoly in this country? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. I would think that the relationship between a client and a bank in relation to that client's overdraft would be something which is singularly between the bank and the client. The honourable senator's question rather implies that there is an all over pattern of this type of action going on. To that extent I shall refer the question to the Treasurer and obtain a response. 
I present the 35th report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which reads as follows: 
Why is the Minister for Civil Aviation opposed to the use of charter flights to fly people to and from Australia? Is he not aware that the introduction of charter aircraft would make fares for overseas travel from Europe to Australia, from America to Australia and from Australia to other countries, much cheaper not only for Australians but also for tourists coming to this country? Does he not realise that charter flights could probably be one of the greatest stimulants to the development of our tourist industry? ls he aware that many Australians fly from Australia to Singapore or Bangkok and then join charter flights to Europe, thereby enjoying a much cheaper fare? Does he recognise that whilst Australians think this way about leaving Australia, the need to use this method to get cheaper fares does not induce people to come to Australia? Therefore, will He give earnest consideration to allowing charter aircraft to fly to and from Australia? 
-I regret that I have not seen the article and therefore I am unable to make any comment as to whether or not the assertions in it are true and correct. I can say that the question as to whether or not fish are imported into Australia is strictly a matter for the Department of Customs and Excise. Providing fish are healthy there is no prohibition under our quarantine regulations against the importation of such fish. I understand that the procedure followed when fish are sought to be introduced into Australia is that the quarantine officer at the point of entry prevents the importation pending a referral of the matter to the Department of Primary Industry, which is the initiating body for the State and Commonwealth Standing, Committee on Fisheries. This body has a list of those fishes which can be imported into this country. Therefore I would suggest to the honourable senator that his inquiry could be directed to the Department of Customs and Excise. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Is it a fact that the  irrespon sible attitude of the pilots of Qantas, who will go on strike at the drop of a hat and thereby cause great inconvenience to passengers booked on its services, is one of the reasons why today some people prefer not to travel by Qantas? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move that the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 4, being the Evidence Ordinance 1971 made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-70, be disallowed. I ask for leave to make a statement in regard to that notice. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator BULL)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The notice of motion I have just given relates to an ordinance which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is considering at present. The Committee is concerned about certain aspects of the ordinance and would like to pursue some investigations further before deciding on whether it should report to the 
Senate. As the time allowed for giving notice of motion for disallowance has almost run out, I give that notice to allow the Committee the desired time to pursue its investigations. 
Are there any requests? There being no requests, 1 declare the divisions under the group of departments considered by Estimates Committee D passed. The Committee will now proceed to consideration of the divisions under the group of departments considered by Estimates Committee E. Are there any requests? 
Yes, within group E. 
I refer next to a proposed appropriation of $650,000 for rental for use of Butterworth facilities which is dealt with in Division 696, item 03. Are we to gather from this item that since the Budget last year the rental of the Butterworth facilities has increased? I was,under the impression that previously Australia owned those facilities. I cannot recall seeing expenditure of this type mentioned previously. 
In the Hansard report of the Estimates Committee debate on the Department of Air, which does not cover very much space, the Minister pointed out that there would be required an additional appropriation totalling $120,000 under Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $32m under Appropriation Bill (No. 4). He said that savings were expected on other appropriations to the extent of $50m and $17.6m respectively. In the case of some other departments where explanatory notes have been available we have been able to find a paring down. For example, a few days ago there was reference before the Committee to $4,000 for laundry, but by the time we had debated it and come back into the chamber the $4,000 had disappeared. I should like the Minister to tell us what savings have been achieved by his Department as a result of economic measures taken by the Government, and in which branches savings have been effected. 
Division 702 provides for an expenditure of almost $4m for the purchase, manufacture and lease of aircraft and associated initial equipment. This description is very vague. This subject was not covered by the Estimates Committee, nor is it covered in the explanatory notes to the degree that it should be covered. I should like the Minister to explain how it was proposed to spend this amount and how much, if any, is involved with the Fill. 
 Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 -Order! I ask  Senator Wheeldon  to come back to the terms of the Bill. 
As  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I think I shoud put very simply and cleary to the Senate what is in the minds of members of the Committee in suggesting this trip to Norfolk Island. There axe some peculiar circumstances relating to Norfolk Island. Some of the regulations or ordinances which have come from Norfolk Island have appeared to some of us on the Committee to be rather unusual or strange. Sometimes the regulations or ordinances have resulted in a conflict arising between the Committee, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  and the Legislative Council of Norfolk Island. 
It is difficult for some members of the Committee to realise why these regulations or ordinances come out of Norfolk Island, because to us they infringe upon one or more of the 4 principles under which the Committee has operated since its inception. Therefore, because the members of the Committee found difficulty in understanding or accepting what sometimes appeared to be very restrictive regulations or ordinances concerning Norfolk Island, the Committee had discussions with the Minister. I believe that some members of the Legislative Council of Norfolk Island were in Australia some months ago. I know that the Minister would be very happy for the Committee to go there, and I understand that the councillors who were over here would be very pleased to see the Committee. After thinking on this for quite some time, the Committee has decided to go to Norfolk Island to find out the reasons for the peculiar aspects of their ordinances which come before our Committee. I think there is benefit in the Committee's going there to find out the reason for and the purpose of their doing things and the way in which they do them. We do not want to be in conflict with the people on Norfolk Island. We want to try to understand, co-operate and work with these people. I think the visit by the Committee to Norfolk Island will help us to gain a clearer interpretation of the reasons why they formulate regulations and ordinances which are contrary to what we consider to be suitable for the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Is it not a fact that the answer he gave to  Senator Murphy  in regard to charter flights by Qantas Airways Ltd related to charters by Qantas on a group basis, which means that people have to comprise a group of a certain number in order to enjoy those charter rates? Is it not a fact that the charter rates that  Senator Murphy  mentioned are those paid by individuals who at present book on and join flights at Bangkok or Singapore because such charter flights are not allowed into Australia? In view of reports this morning in relation to an application for the starting of charter flights from Australia, in which it was stated that the interests of Qantas apparently were regarded as being paramount, would it not be right to take the attitude that the interests of the individuals in Australia are paramount to those of Qantas and also that the interest1: of Australia itself are paramount to those of Qantas, and that the present restriction on charters has a detrimental effect on this country's tourist industry in which so many people find employment? 
 I have been attracted to this debate because of some of the arguments I heard put forward in regard to the purchase by Qantas of Boeing 747 aeroplanes. Those of us who have been associated with this industry for many years will realise the terrific changes which have taken place over the years at a very quick speed. The types of aircraft have changed, the size of them has increased and so on. One of the great requirements to meet the changing situation is continuing expenditure to purchase newer and larger aircraft. We have reached the position where Qantas is to purchase Boeing 747 aircraft which will carry 350 or 400 passengers, depending on the way in which they are set up. Tonight we are debating whether to approve this expenditure for these very expensive aircraft. I think this Bill should bring in to our minds some realisation of what is involved as far as this country is concerned with our international airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. I think that we have to recognise that there is a limit to what this country might achieve in this regard. 
I saw some honourable senators who spoke earlier in this debate putting out their chests with a degree of loyalty to this Australian airline. That is a very nice feeling and a nice spirit to have but we have to have some responsibility of thinking in relation to this question. How far should we go in this matter? Should Qantas tap every country in the world? Should Qantas compete with every service which wants to come to Australia? Would it be better for us to allow some other people to do the work than for us to spend the money and do the work? Some people might say it is wrong to propose those questions. But in the years when the trade of this country, particularly in passenger lines, was carried on by shipping services how many of them were run by this country? They were run mostly by private people who were prepared to invest into that form of transportation. As a consequence, this country did not have to put up any money in order to build up shipping transportation to and from Australia. But because we became involved in airline transport we are now up for considerable expenditure. If I remember rightly our involvement in Qantas is well over $200m at present and it could be much more because of the change in the type of aircraft and the increased size and cost of them. Therefore I think that we have to have some responsibility and we have to give some thought to how far an international airline of this country can go. 
I know that a lot of Australians are inclined to think that ours is a big nation, hut it is a very small nation. Sometimes in the United Nations councils we think we count a lot internationally but we are really very small fry. From the point of view of financing projects, Australia is still very small fry but geographically it is a very big country. This country requires a lot of money for developing projects and so on in order to bring it into an even greater state of development. We hear cries of 'invest in this country' with reference to the mining industry and other industries but very often we find that the finance is not available to meet the opportunities presented to the people. Australia has become involved in things such as international airlines into which a lot of money is channelled whereas it might be channelled into other directions to help the internal development of this country while other people might be financing our air services on an international basis. I am not suggesting that we should close on this sort of thing. I think there is a limit to what we can do in this matter because we will become involved in larger amounts of expenditure in this connection. 

 Senator Davidson mentioned the very interesting aspect in a report by Qantas which stated that so many other airlines wanted to come to this country. What is the position? If an airline wants to come to this country from another country it generally gets a licence if Qantas wants a matching service running from Australia to the country involved. I have never been able to see the necessity or the reason for holding up other people in other countries who want to come to Australia until Qantas wants to provide a comparable service. To my way of thinking this is a restriction on people coming to Australia. If an airline in another country wants to come here it will advertise in its  own  country for people who want to come to Australia. They therefore build up traffic from their own countries and as a consequence we have more people coming to this country as tourists and as businessmen. So I think our own airline sometimes has caused a strangulation of the development of international air trade between other countries and our own. Something has to be done on this subject. 
I do not think we are in the position to require a matching service with airlines from other countries which wish to come here. We have to decide just how far we want to get involved in this. Are there any private operators who are prepared to run these services from Australia? If there are, it could save this country a lot of expenditure. We have to review this position because this expenditure will grow and grow, taking money from this country and from this Government which might well be used in many other ways. Let no honourable senator tell me that he cannot think of other areas in which we could invest this money very profitably. Do not let us get carried away and think that it is the beginning and the end to everything. Must we have our Australian airline operating to every country? Let us be sensible and pick the most profitable routes and concentrate on them. If other operators want to come here we should let them come, because from our point of view the more people other airlines bring to this country the better it will be for us. Also, in thinking of the expenditure involved in the carrying on of our national airline or international airline, whichever you like to call it, there has to be some responsibility on the part of the people who are employed in that service. 
There is, unfortunately, a slight recession in the aviation business throughout the world at present. Of course, Qantas is suffering too, possibly not just because of this recession but as a result of irresponsibility in certain sections of its service. Just think of it in a sensible manner. If a person feels that an aircraft of a certain airline is not likely to depart on time and there is likely to be a difficulty in getting away because of continual strikes by pilots, ground staff and so on, is he likely to travel with that airline? He will travel with an airline which is more reliable and has been so in the past. Many people will not travel with Qantas because they say: 'You do not know whether you will get away because the pilots or somebody else will be on strike'. They are the people who are doing a great deal of harm to Qantas. I am not criticising the management; I am criticising those people employed by Qantas who are helping to destroy whatever name Qantas has built up over the years. Do not let us kid ourselves that Qantas is the one airline that stands out from all the others. Qantas gives very good service but so do all the other international airlines. Competition is so keen that they must give a good service. 
I have travelled on more than one overseas airline and I find the service on the other airlines is excellent also. So do not let us feel that Qantas is so far ahead of the others that people will automatically travel on it. We have to give service on our airline but we have to build up an impression of reliability in the minds of people in that if an aircraft is set down to depart at a certain time they can reasonably expect it to depart at that time. As I said, this is a big country and lots of people arrive at Sydney airport to travel on an international airline having travelled perhaps 2,000 miles to get there. If they are held up for some trivial reason, such as the pilots or the ground staff wanting to have a meeting or stage a holdup, this is the kind of thing that destroys that impression. 
It is a recognised fact that some international airlines today are doing very good business while some of the trade of Qantas has fallen off. This should be brought home. Because of this falling off in business some pilots have been paid off. The people who have my greatest sympathy are the cadets who have been laid off. So far as the pilots are concerned, they have brought it on themselves to a very great extent. They have kept a stranglehold on the company, never realising that there could be a recession and a downturn in the aviation industry. This is possibly the first time that they have been made to realise that they can be out on the street like lots of other people. I feel there is no more responsibility on the Government to dictate to Qantas and force it to keep these people in work than there would be if an ordinary industrial worker came to the Government and said that because the industry had put him off the Government should force the industry to re-employ him. So far as I am concerned, those people would get more sympathy than the Qantas pilots after what they have done in recent times. 
The legislation before us allocates a considerable sum of money to Qantas but I do think that Qantas personnel and other people associated with it should get the idea out of their minds that it is easy to get money from the Government. I think they should be made to realise that this Government expects a responsibility right through the service, not just to this Government but to the passengers who pay their way. I also feel that Qantas should not have the right to dictate, through the officers of the Department, that other operators should not be allowed into this country if they do not want a matching service. If we want this international service, let us have it operate in the best possible way. As I said before, we should keep to profitable routes and if other people want routes that Qantas does not think are so profitable they should be allowed to come in. I think in that way we would arrive at a better solution so far as international traffic in and out of Australia is concerned than we have at the present time. If this airline does not build into itself and its staff a sense of responsibility we may find that things will get a lot worse. 
If honourable senators read the news in the world of aviation they will find that some of the big airlines, such as PanAmerican and others are running at a loss, not of just a few million dollars a year but a considerably larger amount. Therefore, if those airlines which are run in a most efficient manner find a recession overtaking them to that extent this Government, if it goes too strongly into this aspect of international aviation without some deep thinking on the matter, might find, in a recession such as this, that instead of earning a profit we might well be down the drain. Therefore we want to tailor our international airline to the circumstances of the moment and the tasks which this country could easily accomplish without straining itself and without diverting much of the money which might well be centred on the development of industry in this country. 
I am sure that this Bill must be of interest to every honourable senator. I feel that the Ministry is getting too large. I think that we should consider the Ministry in relation to private senators and members. I believe that 27 Ministers provide, a very strong power base against the position of private senators and members. This relationship should be kept in mind. I was concerned about the proposal to appoint an extra Minister and I let it be known that 1 was not in favour of it. I have been assured by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that certain aspects will be looked at in regard to the Ministry. I think that we have reached the situation where the Ministry must not be allowed to grow any larger. Honourable senators no doubt appreciate what the position is. If on any occasion private senators or members wish to make a stand that is contrary to the view of the Ministry they will be in a weak position. 
 Senator Marriott  is a Liberal senator. One of the very basic things about the Liberal Party of Australia is that each of its senators and members has the right to act according to his own conscience, which is a very important thing. 
 It rather amuses me that the serious business of public life must always be related to sportsmanship or a sporting team. As a senator I have always taken the view that one comes here not just to be a rabbit but to be able to make a decision on what is right or wrong for the country. I think everybody in this chamber will agree with me when I say that I have always taken the view that I should express myself according to what I think and vote accordingly. That aspect will never change so far as I am concerned. 1 also take the view that if the private senators and members automatically say yes to everything that the Ministry does or wants to do there is no need for the private senators and members to be here. In that case we would just leave everything to the Ministry. If the Ministry must do what the Prime Minister wants we can get rid of the Ministry and leave the Prime Minister, and then we would have a dictatorship. If we want the true basis of democracy, every person in this national Parliament must be able to express himself clearly, according to his conscience and in the spirit that what he is doing is in the best interests of this country. I am quite sure, having heard  Senator Marriott  express his views on this subject, that that honourable senator agrees with those sentiments. Having discussed this matter with the Prime Minister, I want to say what my own feelings about this Bill were when it was first announced. It is only because of certain assurances I received from the Prime Minister that the whole structure of the Ministry would be looked at in the future when he has time to sit down and do so that I will not oppose the passage of the Bill. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Export (Fresh Fruit) Regulations, as contained in StatutoryRules 1971 No. 35 and made under the Customs Act 1901- 1968 and the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 1905-1966, be disallowed. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement in connection with the notice of motionI have just given. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Why did the Minister and the Cabinet decide that they would not support the Victorian Government in its aim to put down lawlessness and disruption amongst university students by cutting off the scholarships of the people concerned? Is it a case of the Federal Government not wanting to discourage disruption and dissent among university students or is it a case of the Government taking the easy way out, as it so often does in relation to industrial troubles and so on? Is the Government not conscious of the fact that it costs money to provide education for these louts and also that it costs money to provide buildings in which to house them? Is it fair to the taxpayer of this country that these people are allowed to do these things at his expense while no action is taken against them? Why is this Government afraid to take the same action as the  Sir Henry  Bolte Government is taking in Victoria? 
I have received a letter from the  Chairman  of the House of Commons Select Committee on Statutory Instruments in which he has inquired about the operation of the Senate Standing Committee of Regulations and Ordinances, and with which he has forwarded a copy of the special report to the House of Commons from the Select Committee concerning its methods of examination of statutory instruments. Honourable senators will be interested to know that on examination T find that the Senate Committee's operations under standing order 36A are less restricted in their scope than are the terms of reference of the House of Commons Committee which limits the grounds on which the Committee may report to that House. lt will be of interest to the Senate to know that this report is to be considered by the Select Committee of Procedure in the House of Commons in the near future. The  Chairman  has advised me he would very much welcome our comments on the report as a whole. In particular, on paragraphs 14 and 15 relating to the method of dealing with delegated legislation in the House of Commons, and has asked whether in the light of experience in the Australian Senate, we consider that, if the House of Commons Committee had wider terms of reference similar to those of the Senate Committee, this would facilitate action on a report when it was tabled in the House of Commons. It might be of interest to honourable senators to know also that the House of Commons in Canada has been examining its procedures for the oversight of delegated legislation, and in this regard has looked to the operations of the Australian Senate Committee for guidance. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister seen reports of the debate which is now raging in the United States of America between certain senators in relation to Australia's selling mechanical sugar cane harvesters to Cuba? If so, is it not a fact that the company concerned, although manufacturing in Australia, is really a company based in Canada and not basically an Australian company? Has the Minister taken steps to inform the American senators and the American Government of this fact, particularly as there could be great damage to the sugar industry of Queensland if the quota of sugar supplied to America is cut or eliminated because of the stand by the United States of America? 
I have a few words to say in relation to an amendment proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I refer to section (c) which states: 
that the Commonwealth Government should retire from the field of estate duties thus granting relief from the dual incidence of succession duties imposed by both the Commonwealth and State governments. 
It is many years now since I stated in the Senate that I was opposed to estate duties. I believe that people throughout their lifetime should pay an income tax at a rate which is sufficient to allow the abolition of estate duty; but I see in this a difficulty. If the Commonwealth abolished estate duty the people of Canberra and the remainder of the Australian Capital Territory would be subject to no estate duty at all. This would put the people in the Territory at an advantage over the rest of the people of Australia, lt would also encourage people in the latter stages of their lives to come to this area and so avoid the estate duties that would have to be paid in the States. 
It is very interesting to see this matter brought forward, under whichever guise it is brought forward, but it needs to be looked at in a deeper way than it is in this amendment. I believe that the abolition of estate duty should in the first place come from the States. In order to bring that about there would have to be some compensatory financial arrangements made between the Commonwealth and the States. Once that was achieved, with the abolition of estate duty by the Commonwealth we would arrive at the point where we had no estate duty. I have been keen to achieve this objective but abolition of estate duty by the Commonwealth would not give equitable treatment to all the people of Australia because the people in the A.C.T. would have a great advantage over everyone else in Australia. 
I spoke earlier on this subject when I spoke on the Australian Democratic Labor Party's amendment.  Senator Prowse's  amendment is on almost similar lines, although he did point out that his amendment will mean that the matter will be considered during the preparation of the Budget. I again feel that the subject has to be tackled on a wider basis. I know that we have no control over what the States do, but I think that there are means by which we can influence the States to do certain things. If this tax is to be wiped out by the Federal Government, an approach should be made to the States to have it wiped out on a State basis also. The only way in which this can be done is to ensure that the States receive compensating revenue so that they will not be at a disadvantage if they abolish these duties. Generally speaking the Commonwealth tax is much lighter than the State tax. I understand that the State tax could be 2 or 3 times as heavy as the Commonwealth probate tax. 

 Senator Webster said that in Victoria certain rural people do not pay as much estate duty as do rural people in other States. That is because that State and possibly another State have given concessions to rural producers. Those States have given the rural sector a special reduction in State taxes. 
No, but generally speaking the Commonwealth tax would be much lower. Therefore, I wanted to make it quite clear that I am very strongly opposed to the imposition of probate tax because I think it is an extremely difficult tax for people to meet.  Senator Prowse  quoted an estate of a deceased primary producer which had to find $95,000 for probate. That is a fairly large sum. It is a very difficult tax to pay. 
1 suppose there could be that aspect to it. 
Not having a wife, that will not worry me. 
There may still be a chance; one never knows. Apart from being a very difficult tax to pay, I also think that in many respects it is an unfair tax. I think it must be realised that quite often, when a person has a property which has to be sold within a certain time because it is part of an estate, the selling price would not be as high as it would if the person were selling, in a leisurely way, under normal conditions. Forced sales very often give other people the opportunity to get properties at what might be termed bargain prices because those properties have to be sold. 1 deal now with the arguments advanced by  Senator Wilkinson.  I have no objection to the size of the estate that a person leaves. I believe always in the spirit of free enterprise. The more successful a person is in life, through his efforts, the more I say to him 'Good luck'. Therefore, I do not think that we, as parliamentarians, should have in our minds to try to tell people that they must not leave estates of beyond a certain amount. I think we should encourage people to be thrifty and to have some initiative and resource in order to develop themselves, to make themselves wealthier if at all possible, and at the same time to help develop this country. I support this amendment because I am very strongly opposed to the imposition of probate tax. If only the Commonwealth retired from this field, what would be the position with he States? Would they increase their tax further? I feel that this might be a possibility. My sympathy is with this type of amendment- 
That is all right. Let me say these few words: 1 feel that whilst this amendment relates to the Federal side, if we are earnest about this matter and want to do a job - I have talked to  Senator Prowse  about this - the amendment should be enlarged so that we also ask the Federal Government to have discussions with the States on the matter and see whether the Commonwealth Government can by some means or other arrange some compensating finance for any loss by the States. If the mover of the amendment were to make his amendment all embracing like that, from a State and Federal point of view, I would support that with the greatest of pleasure. But I cannot see how, by carrying the motion as it is at the moment, we will get where we want to get because I am quite sure that if the situation remains as it is, with the States remaining in the field of estate duty and the Commonwealth vacating that field, there will be an opportunity for the States to say: 'We will increase our tax further'. I am not prepared to support the amendment because I think it should be on a wider basis. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. As  Senator Willesee  has brought this matter to the attention of the Senate I think a pertinent point of the statement made by  Mr Irwin  might be questioned. I ask the Minister whether he could advise us as to the correctness of  Mr Irwin's  statement. Also I think a statement in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' questioned whether this Committee is acting within its constitutional rights and whether the Commonwealth Parliament does have a control over the stock exchanges. It questioned whether this Committee is acting within its powers or stepping outside its powers. I think those are the points which ought to be elicited. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration seen an article in last Sunday's Brisbane Truth' in which it was stated that a senior immigration officer in Sydney had revealed that if a person comes to this country for $10 under the assisted passage scheme and then decides to return to his motherland before the contracted 2-year period has expired, there is nothing the immigration officials at airports can do about it except to take the person's name, address and passport number and then allow him to proceed on his way? Has the Department any steps in mind to take to close this loophole? Also has the Department in mind increasing the amount payable by immigrants under the assisted passage scheme, taking into consideration the fact that this country wants immigrants who are likely to be successful here and not just those who have not been successful in their home country? 
 Two days ago I asked a question relating to cane cutting machines being supplied to Cuba. Since then the Queensland Premier has made a statement on this matter. I ask the Minister representing the appropriate Minister: In view of the very serious situation which could develop in the Queensland sugar industry because of any loss of markets or loss of the opportunity to increase markets in the United States as a result of this sale, will the Minister see that some statement is made publicly so that the people of Queensland, and in particular those engaged in the sugar industry, will know that the Commonwealth Government is on the alert in relation to this matter, because of the potential loss not only to Queensland but also to the nation generally in external or overseas credits. 
I move: 
That the Evidence Ordinance 1971, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 4 of 1971, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
In moving this motion I draw the attention of the Senate to the thirty-sixth report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which was presented in this chamber last evening. In view of  the fact that there are a number of new senators in this chamber it is only right that the functions of this Committee should be known. Firstly, this is a standing committee of the Senate. Since the Committee was established in 1932, the principle has been followed that the functions of the Committee are to scrutinise regulations and ordinances to ascertain (a) that they are in accordance with the statute, (b) that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties, (c) that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions, and (d) that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
This Committee processes the various regulations and ordinances which are made from time to time, and gives to those regulations and ordinances a very close scrutiny, particularly in relation to those 4 aspects of the Committee's work. 
In this instance the Committee felt that this was an ordinance of very great importance and having wide effects, and that it should be brought in by way of legislation and not by way of regulation. The Committee takes the view that a matter as important as this one should be brought before the Parliament in the form of legislation so that parliamentarians will have an opportunity to scrutinise it closely and debate it. The Committee is of the opinion that this matter should be seen in the light of public debate in the Parliament. A consequence of it being debated in the Parliament would be that the parliamentarians would better understand its relevance and importance. 
The report of the Committee points out that this Ordinance enacts a comprehensive code of the law of evidence and replaces various New South Wales statutes and other laws previously in force in the Australian Capital Territory, lt was pointed out in the report that the law of evidence is perhaps the most important branch of the law. Because this Ordinance introduces some very important changes to the law of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory - some of the provisions are entirely new to Australia - it is felt that it is some thing that requires close examination. One aspect which has been pointed out in the report is that section 42 of the Ordinance provides for the admissibility of computer studies as evidence. Whilst this system is apparently operating in Britain it is new to Australia and does not have any counterpart in the various State laws of this country. 
The Committee is concerned that so important a matter as the law should be changed, and in some respects radically changed, by means of delegated legislation rather than by substantive legislation which is openly debated in the Parliament. The Committee in the preparation of its report was not concerned about the rights or wrongs of the Ordinance. That, of course, is a different matter altogether. The Ordinance may be a very good one; it may be desirable. But that was not the point al issue insofar as the Committee was concerned. The Committee was concerned only about the propriety of introducing matters of great importance by means of subordinate legislation. 1 wish to stress the point that the Committee believes that the Parliament is really of paramount importance in this country and that, in consequence, anything of a very important and far-reaching nature should be considered by the Parliament in debate. It is for the reasons I have outlined that 1 have, as  Chairman  of the Committee, moved that the Ordinance be disallowed. It may be a very easy matter for Commonwealth departments, the Public Service or the Executive to do things by regulation, but an aspect which has to be considered is that as the Parliament is of paramount importance in this country, it should consider and debate the proposals contained in this Ordinance. 
in reply - In winding up the debate I point out that of the several points that have been introduced in the course of the debate, one matter which has been dealt with in detail relates to the fine contents of this Ordinance. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances deliberately stated in its report, which was presented to the Senate last night, that it is not concerned with the quality of the contents of the Ordinance. 
What I mean is that the Senate is not debating whether the contents are good or bad. That does not come within the scope of the debate. Any debate relating to that aspect only leads away from what the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is driving at. The main reason why the Committee has brought this matter forward is that members of the Committee feel that the Ordinance is of a sufficiently substantial nature to be dealt with by way of legislation. All members of the Committee who were present when this Ordinance was first considered felt that it should be dealt with by way of legislation. 
 That was the considered opinion of Committee members at that time. However, ultimately that became a majority opinion, and now  Senator Lawrie  has changed his mind on the matter, reducing by one the number of members of that opinion.  Senator Byrne  praised the Committee but suggested that it might be becoming over-sensitive; in other words, he was suggesting that the Committee might be too particular about the matters that it brings forward. In October I will have been  Chairman  of this Committee for 18 years, which is an all time record for any Committee of the Australian Parliament. So I would be the only person who would know what trends have developed. Over that period of 18 years the Committee has had some very valuable members. For instance, 3 of the present Ministers were members of the Committee.  Senator Wright- 
He was a very good member and was one of the most valuable members that we have had on the Committee for many years.  Senator Greenwood  was a member of the Committee for some years.  Senator Drake-Brockman  served with the Committee for a short time. Among Opposition senators we have had  Senator Willesee,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who served for many years, acting as  Deputy Chairman.  He was particularly valuable to us. A number of others also were members. As a matter of fact the present occupant of the Chair,  Senator Prowse,  also was a member of the Committee for some time and represented the Australian Country Party on the Committee.  Senator Byrne  was a very valuable member of the Committee and was a member when it went through what was probably its greatest crisis. I refer to the time when the Committee moved for the disallowance of the import licensing regulations which had a profound effect throughout this Parliament and throughout Australia. Over the years I have seen on that Committee some very valuable members. All the people whom I have mentioned are not palavering. They have all rendered extremely valuable service. I have not seen any trend whereby members of the Committee are becoming over-sensitive or trying to find ways of picking on things in order to make a scene. I have said that before and I say it again. 
No, I am not being dogmatic. I say that in all truthfulness.  Senator Byrne  was representing the Australian Labor Party at the time. During the 18 years I have served as member and  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I have not seen a member of any political party working on the Committee a political angle. I believe that members have worked on the basis that it is a committee representing this Parliament. They work in the highest parliamentary traditions. I feel confident that when members of the Committee introduce a report recommending to the Senate that something be done or that something be disallowed the fullest consideration has been given to that recommendation. That has been my assessment during my time with the Committee. 
I am not a legal man. I am a layman. Sometimes I think it would be better to have a legal man as  chairman  but as a layman I do my best to interpret what is suggested and what is recommended or decided. From that point I try to be absolutely impartial and fair, at all times keeping in mind what is best from a parliamentary point of view. Briefly I mention the words of the late  Senator Pearson  when he discussed the Regulation and Ordinances Committee with the late  Sir Robert  Garran.  Sir Robert  Garran said to him that in his opinion it was the most important Committee in Parliament. Its duty was to see that Parliament ran the country with legislation, not the Executive with regulations and ordinances. Those words came from the great mind of one of the men who helped to write the Constitution. I have always kept that in mind and I have always tried to apply that principle in the considerations of this Committee. The recommendation that this regulation be disallowed goes forth to honourable senators as a majority recommendation of the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the motion moved by  Senator Wood  for the disallowance of Evidence Regulation 1971 bc agreed to. 
I think the suggestion that some decisions should be reached when these motions are brought before the Senate is a correct one. How ridiculous it is when we come here, these urgency motions are brought on, some honourable senators windbag for 3 hours and we finish up with no decision at all. What is the purpose of bringing these motions before the chamber? 
Yes, but what is the purpose of it? To my way of thinking it is just to talk about the matter. If honourable senators have something which they really think is a mater of urgency, is it not desirable that they should obtain an expression from this Senate chamber indicating that they have some support for whatever it is they have brought forward? What happens to the endless number of urgency motions which come on and are talked out? I think it is generally held in the minds of quite a number of honourable senators that this is just a waste of time. I know that somebody may receive some publicity about what he has said but I believe it will be much more effective if we speak for the purpose of obtaining a decision from this Senate chamber. As far as I am concerned, as the position stands at the moment it is ridiculous. Under the present circumstances, I do not think the people outside this chamber think the matter is nearly as important as the people inside this chamber think it is. I think that to obtain a real effect there should be a decision.  Senator Turnbull  mentioned that lately decisions have been given. If the Senate has tended that way does that not indicate that that is the sort of thing the Senate wants? I suggest that if we are going to have these urgency motions we should have a decision as to what the Senate thinks about the motions brought before it. 
I have heard a lot of talk tonight about this matter and some attempt has been made to compare the motion for the adjournment of the Senate with a motion to deal with a matter of urgency. I have been a senator since 1949, and one develops a sense about the type of thing brought up by honourable senators at opportunities provided for them. Never could anybody convince me that the subjects brought forward for debate as matters of urgency are comparable with those brought up in debates on the motion for the adjournment. A senator has only to stand in order to speak on the motion for the adjournment. Every senator has that automatic right. But in the case of a debate on a matter of urgency, a senator has to stand and get 4 others to support him. The type of matter dealt with on the 2 occasions I have mentioned are of different character. 
I cannot see any reason why an honourable senator cannot have a decision made in this chamber on an urgency motion. In fact decisions have been made. Take the case that has been mentioned in this debate, namely, the matter of urgency brought forward by  Senator Kane.  What happened? We started 5 minutes earlier today. This was so impressive that I looked at the bells and asked myself why they were being rung 5 minutes early. That is how much that procedure registers on one. The Senate carried that resolution so we started 5 minutes earlier today. If  Senator Kane's  motion had been put to a vote in such a way as to determine whether the Senate approved the matter he had raised it would have been more effective, would have been more important and would have achieved some purpose. I have always thought that the way urgency motions are trotted out in this chamber is a joke. What happens? Nothing.  Senator Byrne  has just said that honourable senators have the opportunity to debate. They do not have the opportunity to debate. Let me cite an instance. The Senate had before it at one time an urgency motion relating to the Great Barrier Reef. As a Queenslander and a supporter of the Government I wanted to speak on that subject and was not able to do so. Not one Queenslander spoke in that debate. 
Because the Whip had listed speakers from South Australia, Tasmania and everywhere else. That is a fact. I know something of the Reef, having helped start the tourist industry there, and I wanted to speak on that subject but could not do so. 
The point is that if there is a debate there is no sense in just talking about the subject and not making a decision. If honourable senators want to take part in a debate and cannot get onto the list of speakers, they should have the opportunity to register their opinion by vote. I agree with  Senator Murphy  that we are back in the days of the old ladies, the lords, the sirs and all that tripe and nonsense. Let us adopt a modern outlook so far as Parliament is concerned and be effective in our debating. I believe that a decision reached on a matter of urgency brought before the Senate will be of much more importance than the silly way we carry on here talking but doing nothing about it. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator  Murphy's amendment) be left out. 
I enter into this debate as  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and also because I moved for the disallowance of this Evidence Ordinance. I do so remembering the record of rue Committee and the strength of its deliberations before it makes a decision. There are quite a number of honourable senators in this chamber who today occupy quite important positions and who have been members of that Committee in the past. I think it is right to say that each of those members will recognise that the Committee does not take its job lightly, (f the Committee makes a recommendation to this chamber it is made on the highest parliamentary traditions - putting it briefly, to see that this country is run by Parliament and not by the Executive or the civil servants. 
One of the functions of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is to retain the power and the rights of Parliament in the hands of the parliamentarians. If the senators of this chamber are prepared to denigrate themselves, having made a decision, they will have to indicate that they were wrong by going back on that decision in order to save probably some Government department. In this case, it was first indicated on 29th April -  3i  months ago - by the tabling of a notice of motion that this ordinance could be disallowed. Three and a half months is a fair length of time. I know that there are certain aspects to be considered and probably it was not realised that the Committee's motion was of a definite nature. The matter was put on notice at that time as a holding measure because of a problem with sitting days and in order to make sure that by the time we had finished our deliberations we could make the right decision. As the mover of the proposal I was not advised at the time of doing so of the likelihood of the problems which have arisen in the Australian Capital Territory courts. The Minister did not draw the attention of the Senate to these difficulties. In fact, he stated during the course of the debate that disallowance of this ordinance would restore the laws operating prior to the ordinance being introduced. At page 179 of Hansard the Minister said: 
All J can say is that if the Senate should carry the motion for the disallowance of this ordinance it will restore these ancient laws of New South Wales which still have applicability in the Territory and which it is the purpose of this ordinance to supersede. 
I know that the Attorney-General considers the old New South Wales Act as being out of date. But this Senate was told that if the Evidence Ordinance was disallowed the law would revert back to that situation. This Ordinance has not been operating for such a long time. Apparently the courts were able to carry on under the old Act. If they carried on for so many years under that Act surely there would be nothing wrong with that situation continuing for a few more months. 
I want to make it clear that when 1 speak of the Attorney-General 1 am not referring to the present Attorney-General. He has only recently come into that position and was not Attorney-General during the whole of the relevant period. He is a Minister for whom I have a great respect and regard, because he was an extremely valuable member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee until he was appointed to the Ministry. I know the view he takes with regard to this Committee, and I am sorry to have to clash with such a person in relation to this matter. I know that he is looking at the Department's angle as well as other things. 
No, I do not think the Minister is the type of man who would put promotion first. In any case, if the Senate is to bow to the suggestion that certain regulations or ordinances should not be disallowed because of administrative or other difficulties it will waive its powers of disallowance altogether. The Government will always be able to point to difficulties arising out of a disallowance. But it is the responsibility of government to deal with these difficulties. These difficulties were not created by the Committee. They came about because the Department took the steps that it did. I know that it is very easy for people to say that the Committee is causing trouble. That is one point of view that is put forward. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee is a Standing Committee of the Parliament. Its decisions are not taken on party lines. The 3 major parties in this place, excluding the Democratic Labor Party, are represented on the Committee. 
For nearly 18 years I have been  Chairman  of the Committee. I say quite strongly that never at any time has the Committee held its deliberations in a party manner. As a standing committee it is a committee of this Parliament, elected by this Parliament, and its duty is to serve Parliament, and Parliament serves the people. Over the years the Government has not shone very brightly at standing behind this Committee. I can recall the days when the Committee took certain actions and the Government strongly opposed those actions. The Government was consistent in opposing the Committee. The Government was so stupid politically that every time an ordinance was disallowed in the Senate with the help of the Opposition and a few other honourable senators who were prepared to stand against it, this action was treated as a defeat of the Government. If the Government had been big enough and gracious enough in defeat the matter would not have been mentioned in the Press, over the radio or other media. But this is the attitude the Government adopted towards this Committee for many years. It is only of recent times that the Government has been prepared to give way to the Committees in pursuit of the Committee's purposes That is no fairy tale. It is a fact. In days gone by it always amazed me when some people had the idea that the Senate was a useless House which should be abolished. When anybody made a public attack on the Senate the then Leader of the Government in the Senate in defending this House mentioned first the work of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. But the Government never supported us in those days. It is only in recent times that it has come around. 
Now I see another trend developing where there seems to be a swing back to the old days as far as this Committee is concerned. I notice that  Senator Byrne  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party each time seems to find some excuse for why the Committee's recommendations should not be adopted. Today he went to great length to prove why the decision of the Senate last week should be rescinded. He took the Committee to task. When he was a member of the Australian Labor Party he was a member of the Committee. He will remember one of the occasions I am going to talk about. He said that the Committee should have acted in regard to other Australian Capital Territory ordinances which have been passed if it were prepared to act in relation to this ordinance. I say to  Senator Byrne  that these matters build up in a person's mind or in a committee's mind. Over a period some of these ordinances have been going through and there has been doubt in the Committee's mind as to what criteria the Government or the Attorney-General used to decide whether a matter should be brought in by substantive legislation or by ordinance. To show that the Committee was conscious of this aspect I point out that only recently it wrote to the Minister asking him what criteria the Government or a department use in deciding whether a matter should be introduced by substantive legislation or by ordinance. Over a period this aspect has built up in the Committee's mind and 2 bigger matters in relation to Australian Capital Territory ordinances were brought in by ordinance rather than by substantive legislation. The Committee was alert in this case. If it has missed anything which has been going through honourable senators can put that down to the fact that the Committee was not cognisant of the requirements and was not as alert as it might have been. But in recent times it has developed an alertness about these matters. That is why the query went forth to the Government: 'What is your criteria? Will you give us some idea?* Certain members felt that the Evidence Ordinance affected human beings in certain ways. It was something of a new and far reaching character. Under those circumstances the members of the Committee made a closer investigation of the matter and so became alerted to it. Over a period of time - not just one meeting but several - it was ultimately decided to move for the disallowance of the ordinance. The Committee did not move for disallowance to be obstructive or destructive - whichever term honourable senators like to use. It took this action after taking everything into full cognisance. I say to honourable senators that it is their duty to recognise their rights as senators and the preservation of the rights of Parliament. We are not here to be dictated to by departments. We are here to do what we think is the right thing and to legislate for the people of this country. 
It is very easy for the Government to malign the Committee or its members. Very often this has happened whenever a matter has come forward. I look back over the records of the Committee and I find that a number of times we have been told by the Minister or bv the Leader of the Government in the Senate that we are wrong. But over a period they have been proved wrong and the Committee has been proved right. I shall give honourable senators a notable instance of the activities of the Committee which will show how it was very much maligned and criticised by the then Prime Minister and a few other people. We were taken to task because of what we were doing but ultimately it proved a great success. There was an issue known as import licensing. Honourable senators will remember when import licensing was in force. It became a menace to the Government. People were advertising import licences for sale from hundreds of pounds to 50,000 in the Press for everybody to see. Some firms could not obtain import licences. There was a terrible mess. The Government received nothing but abuse over the matter. But what happened? A very alert member of the Committee, no less a person than  Senator Wright,  who served as an outstanding member - I believe in giving credit where credit is due - brought the matter to the attention of the Committee. From the point of view of the Government we were the worst people in the world. We were doing terrible things. It castigated us and we were severely criticised. Do honourable senators think that the Committee received support from this side of the House? Of course it did not. Eventually the Government knew it was going to be beaten. When the Government compromised and said that it would set up an import licensing appeal board comprising 2 business men and only one public servant the Committee said: 'We will allow the ordinance to stand if you do that'. What happened? This took all the nastiness out of import licensing and 12 months later the then Minister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Henty,  moved that his Department have an appeal board based on the successful import licensing appeal board. The Government introduced the appeal board. The 
Government was brought to that action by the scruff of its neck because the Committee had the support of a majority in the Senate. This indicates that if the Committee investigates a matter, takes the right stand and is prepared to fight it is surprising what can be done. Because of our stand we won out and did great service to the people of this country. We never heard any more about import licensing. 
To show what Ministers will do at times I point out that it was proposed that the national health scheme of this country be brought into existence by means of regulation. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee demanded of the then Minister,  Sir Earle  Page, that the national health scheme be introduced by substantive legislation. I ask honourable senators to imagine the national health scheme of this country being introduced by regulations. If I remember correctly there were two or three of them. It was because of the alertness of the Committee that that scheme was introduced by substantive legislation and came under the light of debate in this Parliament. Having been on the Committee longer than anybody else and having been  Chairman  for 18 years, I can recall many cases when the Government blasted us for what we did. But time passed by, because of the stand taken by the Committee and the work that it did it proved that it was right and the people of this country gained from the Comittee's work. What is more, Parliament maintained its position as the supreme governing body. The late  Sir Robert  Garran told one of my Senate colleagues that this Committee was of the most important committee of the Parliament. 
Debate interrupted. 
The late  Sir Robert  Garran, whom honourable senators will recall as a man who helped to write the Constitution, said to the late  Senator Rex  Pearson, when he asked him about the Committee, that the Regulations and Ordinances Comittee was the most important committee in this Parliament because its duty was to see that Parliament ran the country and that it was not run by the Executive and civil servants. Because of the words of such an important man, one who helped to write the Constitution of this country, I took it upon myself as a member of the Committee to treat it in a very serious and important way. Throughout the years as a member of the Committee and as its  Chairman  I have continued to do that. Whenever I have moved as  Chairman  of the Committee I have moved conscientiously, believing that I was doing the right thing. 
Irrespective of what might be said now, I feel that the matter that we are discussing can be easily fixed. There is no reason why the present situation cannot be remedied quickly. The fact that there is now a pickle in relation to the Evidence Ordinance is not the Committee's fault; it is the fault of the Department because of the way it has gone about things. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee feels that the ordinance should be brought in by legislation. The solution put forward by  Senator Murphy  today was a good one and it should be considered by the Senate. In this way we could solve the problem in no time and all the talk about delays in actions against people would not be so important after all. I believe that action in relation to the Evidence Ordinance should be taken in this Parliament. What is said in the Press or by anybody else about this matter does not concern me. What does concern me is doing what I think is the right thing. 
Speaking as  Chairman  of the Committee, the recommendation to disallow the ordinance was a decision of the Committee. It was a recommendation which I did not put before the Committee. It was ultimately decided by the Committee to recommend that the ordinance be disallowed and I stand behind that decision. It is my view that the rescission now proposed should not be carried because if we carry this motion we, as senators, will be saying that we apologise,, that we made a mistake and that the Department is right. 
A member of the Committee,  Senator Withers,  who has been sniggering about this during my speech, says that one has to be big to apologise. Of course you have to be big to acknowledge that you have made a mistake but if you do not feel that you have made a mistake you are a worm if you crawl down merely because the Government, some Minister or a department tries to browbeat you. That is one thing that no-one will ever say about me when I leave the Parliament. No-one will be able to say that I was a worm or a crawler. I am more determined than ever, in view of some of the things that I have heard in the chamber today, to stand behind the Committee's decision and to oppose the motion for the rescission of the motion disallowing the ordinance. 
 I seek leave to make a statement in relation to Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 2, standing in my name. 
by leave - I present the 37th and 38th reports of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to Norfolk Island ordinances and the activities of the Committee since the 36th report. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Before the Senate is a motion: 'That the Senate take note of the Statement.' An amendment was moved by  Senator Murphy  in these terms: 
At end of motion add ', and refers the statement to the Committee on Disputed Returns and Qualifications to inquire into and report upon a question as to the vacation of office by a senator, namely whether, if a senator is appointed an Assistant Minister of State, his place shall become vacant'. 
Speaking on the constitutional aspect of the amendment and as one who was here when Assistant Ministers were appointed quite some years ago - I rely on my memory - I feel that the constitutional aspect was adequately cleared up at that time. The discussions which took place and the answers which were arrived at then indicated to me that the Government was within its rights if it wanted to appoint Assistant Ministers. 1 could not accept the amendment that has been proposed for the referral of the matter to a committee of inquiry because I think that such a committee would only go over the same ground again. I believe that the matter has been amply ventilated. 
The appointment of Assistant Ministers on that occasion was trumpeted with a great deal of hope. It was hoped at the time that the understudies to the Ministers ultimately would be able to step into the shoes of the Ministers when vacancies occurred. The idea seemed at the time to be a worthy one. However, as events showed, it proved to be a failure. If I remember correctly, only one of the Assistant Ministers appointed at that time ever became a Minister, namely, the present Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz.  The others just faded away, lt is apparent from the evidence we have that the appointment of Assistant Ministers on that occasion did not prove to be the success it was expected to be. 
I think that may have been the case. However, that is beside the point. My memory of it is that it was a failure. I cannot see very much good coming out of the present proposal. Once again I should point out that I am not referring to personalities when I say that. I think that  Senator Marriott  has, by his work as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and as  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, has proved that he can make a success of anything to which he puts his mind. I have no personal animosity or feeling insofar as the appointment of  Senator Marriott  as an Assistant Minister is concerned. But I do want to say that I have very grave doubts and feelings about the appointment of Assistant Ministers. 
I know it has been said before that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who is also the Minister for Health, is greatly overworked. My view is that the Leader of the Government in the Senate should be here in that capacity only and should not be side-tracked by having to administer a portfolio. I believe that he should be able to concentrate entirely on the duties of leading the Government in the Senate. If he did not have the responsibility of having to administer a. portfolio he would have more time at his disposal than he has at present to think about leading the Government in this chamber. 
I believe that there is a lot of work which the Ministers could delegate to someone else. I think some people spend too much time on mundane things. An office boy can be kept very busy licking stamps. There are ways of delegating work. 
I think this is something the Ministers will have to- keep in mind. The suggestion that Ministers cannot delegate work interests me. What will be the position when the. population of Australia is as large as the population of the United States? A Minister handling a portfolio in a nation the size of the United States of America would not bother about the little things that Ministers deal with in Australia. I think that there will have to be a rethinking insofar as the handling of portfolios is concerned. 
I adhere to the view that has been expressed by honourable senators today and on other occasions that the role of the Senate is to be a house of review - a States' house. I do not think that there should be any Ministers in this chamber. As an indication of how ludicrous the situation has become, it has been mentioned that there are only 5 Ministers in this chamber handling 27 portfolios.  Senator Byrne  has given a resume of what has happened over a period of time. It has been found that the whole thing has grown out of proportion. There should not be any Ministers in this chamber. If there are to be Ministers here they should be here in proper proportion, but I think it would be in the interests of the Senate if there were no Ministers at all in this chamber. 
The Senate is supposed to be a house of review. Ministers are naturally wedded to Cabinet or ministerial decisions. If the Senate is to fulfil its function as a house of review its members should be free to vote according to their wishes, but no Minister will vote against anything the Government has brought down. Ministers are obliged to vote for the Government. I think the Senate would function better if none of its members was appointed to the Ministry. It would appear from the rather interesting speech made by  Senator Byrne  that on one occasion this chamber was without any Ministers. I do not think that any great harm was done at the time. I am not aware of any great repercussions taking place. There is no reason why the Standing Orders could not be altered to allow a Minister from the other place to present a Bill and then sit at the side of this chamber and answer questions on it. This matter was considered two or three years ago. A Minister in the other place could be invited to this chamber when legislation came before it concerning a matter which came within that Minister's portfolio. We would obtain better replies to our queries about the legislation because he would have a more extensive knowledge of it than a Minister who is representing him in this chamber. This is because the Ministers in this chamber are at present called upon to represent 27 portfolios between the 5 of them.  Senator Byrne  took this matter a bit further when he referred to the Estimates committees of the Senate. The responsible Minister sits in at each meeting of the Estimates committees and answers questions. 
If it is the thinking of honourable senators that we should have Ministers in this chamber than I submit that it is ridiculous to have the present imbalance. I think the truer purpose for this chamber would be served if it were to function as a house of review - a States' house - without Ministers. I am not in accord with the appointment of Assistant Ministers either in this chamber or anywhere else because I do not think that their appointment has been a success in the past. 
One aspect which I think should be of great concern to honourable senators on this side of the chamber is the manner in which the Ministry is selected. The selection is in the hands of the Prime Minister. There is no doubt about it that the increase in the number of Ministers and Assistant Ministers has meant that the Prime Minister has a much greater power base in the Liberal Party than would be the case with the Party which sits in Opposition. Its senators and members select its Ministries. To my way of thinking the present policy gives the Prime Minister of the day, whoever he may be - I am not casting aspersions on the present Prime Minister - too great a power base because behind him will sit a much larger proportion of Ministers and Assistant Ministers than is desirable from the point of view of getting a free and true expression of the opinion of the Party. Not everyone, but a good proportion of the people who had favour bestowed upon them, would probably lean towards the bestower. This does not make for good government and it does not make for a good party. I am one of those people who believe that the selection of a ministry is better left to senators and members. In saying this I am reminded of past power struggles that have been resolved in favour of the bestower of portfolios, whoever he may have been. I feel that we are in danger of creating a situation where there will be too many people who are more or less committed to the Prime Minister. Furthermore, the experience of some years ago has shown that the system of appointing Assistant Ministers was a failure. I cannot see why there is going to be any great chance of it succeeding now. If some people are overworked there are other ways of overcoming their problems. I am not prepared to support  Senator Murphy's  amendment, but I will vote against the taking note of the paper in order to register the fact that I do not support the appointment of Assistant Ministers. 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. What has been the purpose behind the Government's action in preventing charter flights to and from Australia? Has it been done, as appears to be the case, for the protection of Qantas Airways? Can the Government not see that many people, apart from Qantas, are concerned at the value of charter flights? Does the Minister not consider that a wider range of business people such as service transporters, hotel and motel proprietors and those concerned with catering and many other enterprises could benefit from charter business? Does he not consider that to allow charter flights to and from this country would benefit Australia far more than will purely the protection of Qantas? 
I desire to ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister a question. Is it not correct to say that the Commonwealth Government sold democracy down the drain when it failed to give the Australian Cricket Board of Control a lead to continue the tour of the South African cricketers? Does the Government's bowing down to the demonstrators on this occasion mean that, in the event of demonstrators entering the chambers of this Parliament and shouting, tinging bells and blowing whistles, the parliamentary business will be closed down, which would be regarded as another success by the demonstrators but which would strike another blow against democracy? 
The honourable senator's question can be divided into 2 parts. I shall respond first to that part of the question which related to the cancellation of the proposed tour of Australia by a South African cricket team. I propose to read a Press statement that the Prime Minister released last night in relation to this matter. It is in the following terms: 
The Government has consistently expressed the view that visits of international sporting teams should be arranged between the sporting bodies concerned and that politics should not be introduced into sport. 
Grave practical difficulties are, however, associated with the cricket tour. The Australian Cricket Board is best able to assess these difficulties. It has obviously taken account of the possibility that a minority would be prepared to go to extremes to disrupt the tour. 
I appreciate that the great majority of Australians wanted the tour to proceed, but I recognise the Board's problem in arranging a successful tour in the face of the difficulties. 
I refer now to that part of the honourable senator's question which related to the possibility of a disruption being caused in the Parliament by demonstrators. That is clearly a matter which would come within the responsibility of the Presiding Officers, who I know have the will and the capability to preserve the dignity of the parliamentary institution. It would be deplorable and disgraceful if any attempt were made to disrupt the proceedings of the Parliament. I hope that no member of the Parliament will countenance any attempt to interrupt the processes of democratic government. 
This is a matter to which the Senate should give very deep consideration. I look with a great deal of concern upon the Senate proposing to reduce the time for debate on an urgency motion. This Parliament is the focal point of democracy in this country. 1 think that if we look at it in that way honourable senators should have the right to debate matters for a reasonable length of time. If they feel genuinely and strongly about something they should have the right to speak on it for a reasonable length of time. Tonight I heard honourable senators say that we should speak for only 10 minutes and so on. Everybody does not speak in the same manner. I think  Senator Cavanagh  made the point that some people may take longer to get to a point than others. That is their natural way. lt is all right for those of us who speak quickly to say that the others should speak quickly and get their points across, but they are not cut out that way. We have to remember that in this democracy of ours people are of different types and have different ways. If honourable senators feel strongly about a matter they should have a reasonable amount of time to debate it. The mover is supposed to get a certain time and other speakers get a certain time also. The proposal is to limit the time of other speakers to 1 0 minutes. 
Tonight somebody said that times have changed. Times have changed in many ways. Possibly democracy is so important that it is necessary to take more time to debate matters in a democratic way than was taken in the past. We can keep on contracting things. That may seem all right if they fit in with other things, but they might not properly suit the main purpose. Take motor cars today. Designers keep lowering the hoods so that higher speeds can be attained. If hoods are lowered much further the only way in which a passenger will be able to get into a car without knocking his head will be to be catapulted in. That is cutting the cloth according to today's conditions. 
Yes. My old push bike still remains the same. From the democratic point of view there is an importance in giving people sufficient time in which to speak. Some honourable senators may say that 3 hours is sufficient time in which to debate a subject. The subject may be a burning one. There may be questions of real national importance at the time. In a chamber such as this a number of people may be bursting to speak on the subject. In those circumstances I feel that we should play safe and make sure that we have sufficient time to debate subjects. 
Let me give an instance. I have been a member of the Senate for nearly 21 years. I cannot recall speaking on an urgency motion. I would like to have spoken on one. It was an urgency motion dealing with the Great Barrier Reef. Strange as it might seem, not one Queenslander on the Government side was permitted to speak in that debate. I helped to establish the Great Barrier Reef tourist industry, of which a former Premier,  Senator Gair,  will know something, but I was not permitted to speak because so many people from other States desired to speak. Those who may have known a bit more about it were permitted to speak. Sometimes there is not enough time even in 3 hours for all who wish to speak. Some of us were deprived of that privilege. I was deprived of that privilege. I always remember that occasion. I do not think that the time should be limited to 2 hours. If a number of people feel that they want to have a say on some matter on which they feel strongly, I think democracy demands that they be given sufficient time to debate the matter. 
It is all right saying that we have a workload and that we have this and that. Let us arrange our debates in a proper way. Let us cut out a silly lot of filling in of time. I know that at times we on this side could have got legislation through, but we talked on. Sometimes the Opposition stopped talking and we could have got it through, but what did we do? We kept on talking. The purpose of debate is to get a matter through. Sometimes the Government does not want to get it through; it just wants to keep on talking. If they want to keep on talking on Bills, what is wrong with leaving at 3 hours the time allotted for urgency motions? I know that urgency motions are often brought on to gain a political advantage, but on occasions the matter may be such that people feel very strongly about it from a national point of view. Therefore I think it is wise for us, as a deliberative chamber, to play safe and to retain the 3 hours allotted for debating urgency motions. I believe that full debates in this chamber are important to the democracy of this country. 
Once again I find that we are dealing with the matter of restriction. This is a case for the individual. As I mentioned before, some people can express themselves in a very short time whereas other people need longer. The suggestion is that the half hour allowed for a  speaker  should be shortened to 20 minutes. Whether 20 minutes is sufficient depends upon the subject and upon the person speaking. I cannot see why the 30 minutes cannot remain. If the person presenting a case does not require half an hour, there is no reason why he should not speak for a shorter time. The fact that a person shortens his speech may give others an opportunity to speak on the same matter. So it is a matter of the person, the subject and the amount of material that he has to present. This chamber is a House of review. It has always had, and was intended to have, longer periods for debate than the other place. It is more in keeping with this chamber to have a longer period for debate. 

 Senator Cotton has mentioned that the proposal to shorten the speaking time is based on the report of the Standing Orders Committee. The very strong inference is that because it is based on the report of a committee which is composed of very worthy senators who have given the subject much consideration, we should accept the proposal. That is a very nice thought. If only the Government were consistent in this direction it would be wonderful for the working of this chamber. If we are to accept the argument and vote according to the report of the Committee, I might ask what has happened to the very many fine select committee reports which have come before this chamber and have been presented to the Government but which have never been acted upon. Honourable senators know as well as I do that some committees have spent months and sometimes 1 or 2 years in research into the ramifications of a problem to find a solution.  If  they go to all this trouble and then present  a  report containing recommendations, there should be time to debate the report. If  Senator Cotton  is. right, why have those reports not been acted upon? 
I mention also the Regulations and Ordinances Committee of which I am the  Chairman.  Very deep consideration has been given to questions which have come before that Committee. We have made recommendations, but over a period of years the Government resisted recommendation after recommendation despite the intense consideration that had been given by the Committee to the matters in question. The Government fought the Committee over a period of years. It was only when it felt that it could no longer win, because of the set-up in this chamber, that eventually it began to give way. It was not to the credit of the Government that it acted in that way. If we are to talk about committees giving consideration to a subject and then bringing before this chamber recommendations which must therefore be accepted, let the Government set the example. 
I understand that in this debate there is to be a free vote, but judging from the last division which took place it is amazing how many senators on the one side of the chamber appear to hold the same view. Of course it might be that they are unanimous in their opinions, but it seems rather strange to me that such a thing happened when we had what is termed a free vote. So far as I am concerned a free vote is one in which a person exercises his conscience. On this side of the chamber we are supposed to have a freedom of conscience. Probably some senators consider that they exercised that freedom. I exercise my freedom of conscience at all time and, therefore, I do not require a special free vote. It is something that the Liberal Party is supposed to have but it is not always very evident. I understand that on this occasion it was announced that was to be a free vote, so the attitude adopted rather surprised me. 
Once again I feel that the Senate is trying to restrict itself. It is all right to talk about what is done elsewhere, changing times and so on. In this same building a committee of the other chamber apparently investigated the length of speeches in that chamber and came up with a recommendation which was accepted. I hope that such a recommendation will never be accepted in this chamber because I believe that it is a downgrading of debate in a democratic institution such as a House of Parliament. In the other place, because of the committee's recommendation and its acceptance by members of that chamber, members may now read their speeches. Just imagine, in the national forum it is now accepted that members may read their speeches. When we talk about change, let us try to keep for ourselves a standard. Let us not sell the democratic rights of senators down the drain, for they might at some time very much regret having done so. It is better to allow a margin by having too much time than to restrict a debate by having the time limit too tight. 
As I said before, a subject might be of paramount importance and a speaker may require half an hour to treat that subject, but there are other questions on which  a  speaker  may not want half an hour and probably deal with the subject in much less time. Therefore, what is wrong with playing safe and leaving additional time for the speech of a senator leading in the debate and other senators who follow in the debate so that they are sure they will have sufficient time. If there is spare time it is quite easy to fit in other speakers.  1  am sure that quite often other speakers would like to enter the debate on an urgency motion, but they are unable to do so because of the time limit. As I mentioned earlier, I recall well the debate on the Great Barrier Reef. As a Queenslander I shall never get over the fact that not one Queenslander on this side of the chamber was even allowed to speak on that question. Things of that sort stick in one's mind. 
Let us have a reasonable time not only for the debate itself but also for people who wish to take part in the debate. I emphasise again that it is a matter involving individuals, the subject and the amount of material to be presented. If the  Senator leading  in a debate wants half an hour, give him half an hour; if he does not want that time he need not take it. But it should be there for him to use at his option. I think it is only right for this chamber, as the Senate of the Parliament of Australia, to ensure that people are not so cramped  lor  lime that they cannot express themselves as fully as they may desire in presenting a case which they may feel just as earnestly about as you or I. 
In this debate I have listened to some very unusual arguments on the effect of penalties. There has been all sorts of sidestepping on the issue as to whether people are really in favour of capital punishment. Straws have been split this way and that way. To me it comes down to a simple issue: Are we in favour of capital punishment for people who do not deserve to be allowed in the society of the human race? I have heard one of my colleagues on this side of the chamber.  Senator Prowse,  say that punishment never does any good and that it never stops anything. Of course this is a theory which is bandied about very often by idealistic people or people who have a soft feeling towards criminals. But in my view punishment does have an effect on people.  Senator Prowse  spoke particularly of the problems relating to motor cars and asked how these problems could be solved. 
We had an example in Queensland - I think  Senator Gair  may have been Premier at the time - when the late  Mr Dan  Kearney was the magistrate in Toowoomba. When people were found guilty of drunken driving they had no option. They were put in gaol for a month. I think  Senator Gair  would agree with me when I say that Toowoomba possibly became one of the best behaved cities in Australia because of the strength of the magistrate of that city. That is an indication that punishment, exercised strongly and firmly, will have an effect. One of the great troubles today is that there is too much leniency in our courts. The action of some of the judges would make one's stomach retch because of their weakness. They give long terms of imprisonment to people who commit dastardly crimes such as killing but then, of course, the parole term is about half the term of imprisonment. 
That is right. The point is this.  Senator McAuliffe,  who is a fellow Queenslander and for whom I have regard- 
Yes. If the judges really imposed the term of imprisonment which they should have then I believe that we would have had some of these people out of harm's way for a longer term and this may have had a more beneficial effect. I feel that strong punishment must have an effect. An honourable senator just interjected to the effect that if you let them out they will do more harm. This has happened on several occasions. Many honourable senators will recall the time when a man attacked 3 models in a park in Sydney. He was put in gaol. Then, as a result of the kindness of the judge this person's parol term came up and he was released before serving his full term. What did he do? He walked into a school and, if I remember correctly, he killed a teacher and a little girl student of that school. This happened because that individual was allowed to move in the society of the human race. 
The sympathy which has been extended in this debate by a number of honourable senators has been extended towards the guilty person. I have not heard much sympathy extended to the person who has been murdered. When one sees the types of crimes that are committed and the sort of people who commit them, I think there is only one solution and that is to get rid of them. Honourable senators have read of cases in which an elderly woman in her 80s has been attacked by an individual who has walked into her home, bashed her, probably raped the poor old soul and killed her. Do honourable senators want that type of despicable individual to remain in this society of human beings? There is only one thing for them and that is to exterminate them. We read of cases where people have attacked young women and men. What have they done? They have cut them into pieces. A more dastardly action one could not think of. Really it is almost impossible for one to read of types of murders which have been committed because of the disgusting way in which murdered people have been treated by criminals. So far as I am concerned, there is only one solution and that is to get rid of those people. 
 Yes, there are various ways of killing them. 
 Possibly hanging may be abhorrent  to  some people but there are other ways in which this punishment can be carried out. There is the electric chair. Another easy way is  to  give them an injection and they are gone in a few minutes. Veterinary surgeons do this quite regularly with animals and there is no difficulty about it. The individuals we are speaking about are no better than animals. In fact, I think animals would put them to shame. Why do we want this type of person to remain with us? In the animal kingdom, if a member of the group plays up and is not of a certain order the world of nature gets rid of that animal out of the group. But here we are talking of keeping such absolutely brutal people within human society. 
I feel that when we think of this situation our sympathy -and thinking should be directed, not to the preservation of people who destroy others but rather to the people who have been brutally butchered and murdered. What can be done as a retribution for their loss of life? I think that the one treatment for people who perform an extreme act of brutality and kill people is - put in simple terms - to exterminate them. The world will be all the better for that act. We should not want those people among us. They are not people. They are lower than that by far. There is only one place for them. They should be given the electric chair, the needle, a bullet or whatever is necessary to get rid of them. If they are allowed out of gaol - as I think  Senator Gair  interjected - they will only kill more people. If any of those people did something like that to someone very near and dear to us in our homes we would be spitting chips and saying: 'Let us get rid of them. Let us exterminate them*. 
It would not just be vengeance or revenge. It would be something close to us and we would recognise the terrible state of certain people who are supposed to be human beings. Such people should be got rid of because they are of no value to this human society and race. 
Therefore, I support the retention of capital punishment. To me, it is the extreme aspect of punishment. It should be used strongly in cases which richly deserve capital punishment. 
I thank  Senator Murphy  for his continual interest in the work of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. I assure him that the point he has brought forward will be recommended by me to the Committee for consideration and that where possible we will comply with that request. 
 I think that the honourable senator will be aware that the Postmaster-General quite recently made a statement in which the original proposals which had been announced in September were modified. The extent to which the arrangements for Mt Gambier have been changed, I am unable to say. But the honourable senator will appreciate that, if I convey his question to the PostmasterGeneral, he will receive as soon as possible an answer indicating what the position is. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Do many countries in Africa practise apartheid between their constituent races. 
Does the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics practise apartheid in preventing its citizens from leaving the country, and does the same situation apply in Czechoslovakia because of the actions of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Did the trade unions of Australia play a major role in bringing into existence the 'white Australia policy'. 
The Minister for immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At 3lst October 1971 the Department of Immigration was employing 16 social workers. 
They were located as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111305_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Department's full establishment is for 19 social workers. Two of. thevacancies were in Sydney and Perth. The third vacancy, in Wollongong, is to be filled early in 1972. The Department has in addition 2 qualified social workers currently overseas. One is serving as a special counselling officer in the Immigration Office in 
Paris, the second is completing a period of instruction in Spain and Portugal In the sociocultures of these 2 countries before returning to duly at Central Office, Canberra, 
One social worker employed in Melbourne is proficient in French, German and Dutch. One social worker employed in Adelaide is proficient in French. 
One of the social workers overseas is proficient In French, German, Belgian, Dutch, and has some Italian. The second social worker overseas is proficient in Spanish and Italian and has some French. 
In addition the Department employs, as welfare officers, a number of officers proficient in languages other than English. Their location, number and languages spoken are as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111305_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

There is also a Turkish-speaking welfare aide employed in Sydney. 
In the State Branches of my Department (including Darwin) and in Canberra Officethere are also approximately 170 other personnel engaged in general duties who are able to undertake interpreting witha wide variety of languages. 
Non-Government social welfare agencies receiving assistance from my Department under the grants to community agencies scheme, and the current annual rate of assistanceasat31st October 1971, are as follows:' 

<graphic href="050232197111305_25_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111305_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

 I am very interested in this debate. In view of what was said here today in reply to an interjection 1 passed I would like to know just where the Australian Labor Party, stands on this issue. 
Righto,  Senator Milliner.  I want to refer to something which was said by the learned honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who is apparently the Labor Party's spokesman on education. These remarks, which I found to be very illuminating, are recorded at page 2215 of Hansard. I just want to know where the Labor Party stands with its education policy. The honourable member for Fremantle spoke of private schools and church schools and then went on to say:  lt seems to me that realistically, if the increasing hurden of education is to be carried on by such private bodies- 
That is the private schools -  they will have to come to accept what was once offered, I' understand, by a former director of education in Western Australia. 
He said that he thinks they will have to come to accept this. He went on to say what was said by the former director of education in Western Australia. The honourable member said: 
He said: 'If you cannot carry the burden of teaching because you no longer have enough people in the orders to staff the schools- 
That is the private schools, the church schools -  why not assume control of certain State schools, which we will allow you to do? We will appoint only Catholic teachers from the State schools service to those staffs additional to whatever from your orders you are prepared to put there.' 
Further on in his speech the honourable member said: 
. one of the solutions may well be that those Catholics who are part of the Stale school teaching staff should be free to teach in church schools. The Commonwealth cannot arrange that in the Slates but it could make that arrangement in the Northern Territory. If it set up as it should in the Australian Capital Territory an independent education authority, it could make such an arrangement in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Does this mean that the Australian Labor Party believes in abolishing the State education systems, or what does it mean? This was something which was rather startling and illuminating in the Budget debate in the House of Representatives on 12th October. 
 Mr Chairman,  1 wish to make a personal explanation.  Senator Keeffe,  in his usual way of trying to traduce everybody; said that 1 made a speech asking for Labor Party support for the position of  President.  1 want to say that that is a deliberate lie. 
A deliberate untruth. 
I withdraw the remark and say that  Senator Keeffe's  statement is totally inaccurate. 
1 would not have entered this debate but for the fact that just before the suspension of the sitting 1 heard a most striking thing said by a Queensland senator in regard to his own State. 
It was  Senator Keeffe.  Me said that we had a banana Premier in a hillbilly State. This is a States House and each senator who comes into it should be here to stand up for his own State. That  Senator Keeffe  rose to speak in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Immigration and said that Queensland is a hillbilly State should be known throughout Queensland so that the people know that when he comes here he is not prepared to fight for his own State of Queensland. 
I know that at times  Senator Keeffe  says things about which he is not fair dinkum. For instance, prior to and during the last election campaign he said: 'Abolish the Senate'. 
If you believe in it why were you throwing off sheets of perspiration for fear that you would not be re-endorsed by the Labor Party at the last election? Ask your cobbers. THey know that. You were throwing off sheets of perspiration for fear that you would not be re-endorsed. That statement about abolishing the Senate is poppycock, the same as what he said about Queensland is poppycock. It is the duty of every senator to stand here and to fight for the rights of his State. 1 believe that Queensland has greater possibilities for development than most other States. I believe that it is doing a very great developmental job. Not only that, but it has a good government too. Because of that migrants- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)The  point of order is not upheld. 
I said that the kind of development that is taking place is such that Queensland is able to absorb migrants and to give them a decent existence. I was very interested in the statements made about the Government's immigration policy. I am not one who believes that the immigration policy should be kept at a peak and that we should take anybody who offers himself. I feel that we should have an intensely selective immigration policy so that wc get the best migrants for the country. I think that the general selective policy of immigration is something of which the average Australian would approve. To suggest opening the doors of this country to anybody who wants to come into it, I think, would be a very unpopular move. To talk of anybody who speaks about not permitting certain types of people to migrate to this country as a racist, is idealistic poppycock. I know that people say: 'Let us have people from different countries'. If we took migrants from all countries the same people who were in favour of this policy would be the people complaining. I stand here as one who believes that we should have the right to say what migrants should come into this country. 
Sentor WOOD- That is because I believe that it is a sensible policy to have. To suggest allowing anybody into his country, I think, is something which would be completely out of step with the thinking of the Australian public. I challenge  Senator Keeffe  to take his Party to the polls and fight an election upon a platform of opening the flood gates of this country to people from anywhere in the world. I guarantee that the Labor Party would be defeated. It would be a landslide w n for the Government. It is all right being idealistic about this subject, but I am quite positive that the great majority of Austraiian people do not want an immigration policy that opens the doors of this country to anybody who wants to come here. 
What a change of policy has come over the Labor Party in recent years. Over the years its members were the people who talked about white Australia. If we go back in history we find the part that the unions played in Australia having this policy. They were on the bandwagon. They did not want coloured races allowed into this country. They wanted a white Australia policy. What was the basis for that? Apart from other things, they were afraid that there would be a lowering of wages and of the standard of their working conditions. This is history. Everybody knows it. Now, because the Labor Party is jumping on any kind of bandwagon it can in the hope that it will get into office, it is departing from the principles that it has acknowledged over the years. 1 make no apology for standing here and saying that I approve of the selective immigration policy at present adopted by the Government. From my point of view, it could be more intensively applied as far as the quality of migrants that we get from countries which do not have coloured races are concerned. Let us be sensible about this, lt is ali right getting up here and saying something in the hope of winning the votes of some idealistic people. Let us remember that a lot of people in this country do not think that way. I am quite sure that that kind of talk will help to keep the Labor Party out of office for many years. 
Over the years migration to this country has been fostered. 1 think that by and large the policy has been a very successful one. The Government felt the winds of change blowing recently and this year it cut down on the number of migrants that it would allow into Australia. 1 feel that the subject is such an important one that it needs the intense thinking of the Government and of parliamentarians generally, but I think that we want to take a sensible approach to the matter to try to ensure that when we tally the ultimate worth of migrants to this country we will find that they have been a real advantage to this country. To those who are continually yapping about racists 1 say: 'What about some of the countries in which coloureds are the predominant race?* There is more racism in some of those countries than there is in Australia and similar countries. If some of those people want in this country the kind of problems that face the United States of America and Great Britain - if they foster that type of policy in this country - they have not much regard for the Commonwealth. 1 stand four square for a selective migration policy so that we get the best people for this country and so that we do not have just anybody who wants to come here. 
Let us be like other people - black, white and yellow races. People have their own attitudes towards people of other races. Therefore we have the right to have a selective immigration policy. We have' our own coloured people to look after - the Aborigines. I believe that today they are being looked after better than they have been in the past. I think that to hear  Senator Keeffe  speak about the turmoil and the recent demonstrations by some Aborigines, and applauding them, is not the way- 
 Yes, you were. This is not the way for a democratic parliament to be run. We should nol be applauding revolts and demonstrations of this type. If it was such a good revolt and such a worthy cause why did  Mrs Kath  Walker, the mother of a boy who took part in that demonstration, disown him for what he did? How did she feci about that demonstration? In this Parliament we have  Senator Bonner  who is of the Aboriginal people. He himself has said quite frankly that things are being done and are being done in the right direction. I feel that if anybody can speak for these people he is the one who can speak for them. So far he has not indicated that he is in revolt at what is being clone for them. Let us in this national Parliament have in our minds a degree of Australian sentiment - to the extent and intensity that whatever we do is in the best interests of this country and is nol something that we would say just because we think it might win votes at an election, but something which will be of real benefit to this country. I challenge  Senator Keeffe  and the Labor Party to go to the polls and fight an election on a campaign to open the doors of this country to allow black, white and bridle people to come in their numbers, us they want. As one - who has at least some political nous about how elections are won, I challenge them. We would landslide into victory. I would be pleased to see them go to the people on that issue, they would come back decimated. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland) -  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Does  the honouable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
 Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The legislation provides also that of the amount of $9.2m, the greater proportion be devoted to housing. Work commenced in other fields will, of course, also continue.I envisage the following allocation as between the various purposes for which the grants are made to the States: 

<graphic href="050232197112075_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

Experience over the past 3 years has shown that as the financial year proceeds individual States are sometimes obliged to seek variations in the allocations between these headings though within the overall grant to the State; but any such variation will be relatively minor and designed to enable States to adapt their programmes to meet unexpected contingencies arising dur ing the year. It is the Government's intention that the amounts available for each of these 6 purposes be divided between the States as shown in a further table which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="050232197112075_25_2.jpg"></graphic>

Stales of the 1970-71 grant will help honourable senators to obtain some impression of the impressive contribution made by the 
Commonwealth grants in a great variety of fields during that year. I therefore seek leave to incorporate in Hansard such a statement of the actual expenditure by the States of the grants made in 1970-71. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (.The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="050232197112075_26_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_27_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_28_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_29_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_30_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_31_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_32_12.jpg"></graphic>

In addition lo ihe amounts which it is intended to apply to housing, health, education, employment and vocational training and .similar purposes through the States grants, it is proposed to apply $3,850,000 to the continuation by the Department of Education and Science of the study and secondary grants schemes and $173,000 to smaller projects, particularly in health and education, through Commonwealth departments. Thus of the total budgetary provision in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for 1971-72 of $l4.35m, no less than 13,223,000 will be devoted primarily to efforts in the fields of housing, health, education and employment and vocational training. Expenditure of this order in these fields represents a useful stimulus to Aboriginal advancement where it is most needed. 
Funds provided for housing through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account over the past 3 years have resulted in the construction or purchase of about 1,000 additional houses, and the funds which I propose for 1971-72 will result in the acquisition of some 500 further homes. In addition some SI. 76m has been expended over the past 3 years from the Trust Account by way of the States grants or direct grants on the acquisition, extension, improvement and in some cases operation of hostel accommodation, particularly for employment and educational purposes; and 
I envisage a further expenditure of at least S856.000 in 197I-.2. In order to relieve some of the demand for housing I have asked my officers to investigate whether more can usefully bc done in the short term by way of the provision of hostel accommodation. 
Funds for health work provided through the Trust Account arc making possible an improvement of rural health services in areas of Aboriginal population. The development of programmes of health education and preventive medicine by professional and sub-professional people should progressively reduce the pressure on the curative services provided in hospitals in Ihe major centres. In addition much necessary expenditure on capital construction and equipment is made possible by the funds from the Trust Account. In the Northern Territory the Department of Health will, on the basis of funds provided from the Trust Account, establish mobile health facilities for the substantial Aboriginal communities in the Borroloola and Timber Creek areas: and. by agreement with the Western Australian authorities, will provide health and medical services for ihe Aboriginal community al the small mining camp at Wingellina in Central Australia. 
I also believe that simplified application procedures being arranged by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  will make the benefits of the subsidised medical scheme more readily available to Aborigines, particularly in Western Australia. Notwithstanding past and present efforts the health status of Aborigines remains a cause for concern particularly in respect of infant mortality and malnutrition. The problems will not easily be overcome, for they require the improvement of living conditions and Ihe extension of medical and health knowledge and understanding amongst Aboriginal parents, including increased voluntary use of family planning techniques. However, it can be said that we now comprehend, the problems better perhaps. than at any earlier time and that our programme will have increasing effect over a period. 
Funds provided for education through the Trust Account are ensuring to Aboriginal Australians more and better educational facilities by way of buildings, equipment, libraries and so on, and are helping the States to ensure that children at school below the statutory school leaving age will receive necessary assistance with clothing, textbooks, travel, tutorial assistance and homework supervision. Beyond the statutory school leaving age, we are very encouraged by the response to the secondary and study grants schemes, which, as honourable senators will be aware, help make it possible for young Aborigines to pursue their studies as far as they are capable of proceeding with substantial benefit to themselves. In the first year, 1970, 2,379 were assisted under the secondary grants scheme, and in 1971, 3,800, while in 1972 it is estimated that the scheme will provide for some 5,700. I am satisfied that very many more young Aborigines are now staying on in secondary school and that there has been generally a marked improvement in the attitudes and application of the children and in their level of attainment. 
In regard to study grants, which provide for study in the upper secondary and tertiary level, 114 were assisted in the first year, 1969. 305 in 1970 and some 500 in 1971 and it is estimated that some 600 will receive assistance in 1972. Of even more significance is the growing programme of assistance through the Trust Account at the other end of schooling - through preschooling. In the first 3 years the Commonwealth has expended more than 
S500,000 from the Trust Account on additional pre-schooling for Aboriginal children. This is only a beginning and we hope to expand the scheme in the years to come. 1 mention these matters as indicators of progress. There are many others to which 1 could refer - for instance, to the encouraging results achieved by the regional projects we are developing with some States on the basis of funds provided through the Trust Account. These projects involve effort by the whole local community as well as by Commonwealth, State and local government authorities. An example is the purchase, removal and re-erection of Snowy Mountains Authority houses by the Shoalhaven Shire with financial assistance from the Trust Account. 
I have mentioned the manner in which about $13.2m of the Sl4.35m sought for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account this financial year is being applied. Honourable senators will also be interested to know something of the application of the remaining $1.1 27m. This will be used for grants to non-governmental organisations for a wide range of purposes - for welfare work, adult education, the provision and running of hostels, support of arts, crafts and cultural activities, support of youth and sporting activities, Aboriginal housing societies and for preschooling provided by private organisations. 1 have had prepared a a summary statement of grants for these purposes made over the past 3 years, and seek leave for this to be incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="050232197112075_33_13.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_34_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_35_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_36_16.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_37_17.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_38_18.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_39_19.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197112075_39_20.jpg"></graphic>

former Minister responsible for Aboriginal Affairs to maintain and increase expenditure from their own resources. Total direct national expenditure on Aboriginal advancement for 1971-72 will therefore be of the order of $44m for an estimated Aboriginal population of 140,000. 
It is important to realise that the amount expended is increasing substantially each year. This "year's likely expenditure of some $44m compares, for instance, with an expenditure in 1967-68 (the year before the Commonwealth assumed its new postreferendum responsibility) of some $20m. An approximate table has been prepared of major direct expenditure over this period, which points up the overall increases, and I seek leave for its incorporation in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="050232197112075_39_20.jpg"></graphic>

While expenditure on Aboriginal advancement has been rising and will rise further, such expenditure is not intended to be a permanent aspect of Australian society. By investing sufficient money in the right areas over the years immediately ahead we will be making it possible for increasing numbers of Aborigines to become independent of the special assistance now being provided through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and in other ways, and, where they need assistance, to be progressively cared for by the general provisions made for the community as a whole. In urban communities Aboriginal Australians seem likely to find effective and respected places in our society living and working among their white fellow citizens, although we hope and believe that they will continue to take pride in their Aboriginal identity and culture. In more isolated areas where many communities will be largely or predominantly Aboriginal, developments are likely for some time to have a more corporate or group character and to retain many significant elements of Aboriginal tradition. It is our firm conviction that the choice open to Aboriginal Australians in this way is the surest means of developing the diversity in our one Australian society. This will ensure an honoured place for Aboriginal citizens who will be making a significant contribution to our development and culture. 
A recent survey shows that the Aboriginal population may reach 400,000 or more by the end of the century, of which some three-quarters might be persons of mixed descent. Our plans should be based on this expectation. Notwithstanding the rapid rate of increase, we can hope that special assistance directed towards Aboriginal Australians as such will be necessary for a smaller and declining proportion of them. The Council for Aboriginal Affairs has indicated that for this goal to be achieved increasing emphasis must be given to measures to promote the greater economic independence of Aboriginal Australians - as individuals, as groups and especially in the north and centre as communities, and to strengthen their capacity to manage their own affairs. The effectiveness of these policies will be measured by the rate at which progress over the coming years justifies the elimination of measures of social welfare assistance directed at Aboriginal Australians as such, and by the increasing contribution to the national product by Aboriginal Australians, as well as by the increasing contribution to the varied pattern of Australian social life made by their traditions and culture. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1971-72  In Committee 
Second Schedule. 
Consideration resumed from 2 December (vide page 2382). 
Department of Immigration 
Proposed expenditure, $66,286,000. 
By leave  -  I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Film Classification Ordinance 1971,  as  contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 25 of 1971, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
I ask leave to make a short statement concerning this matter. 
I ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name under Business of the Senate for 9th March 1972. 
I raise a matter to which  Senator Rae  drew my attention. 1 pay a compliment to him. Clause 1 0 sub-clause (4.) now reads: 
The Governor-General may, after application made to the Treasurer by a person . . . 
Does that mean that it is done by way of regulation? 
I direct attention to the matter of controlling shares by instrument in writing. I realise that the Minister is given the power to create an instrument in writing for the purpose of taking speedy action to keep shareholdings down to a certain level. I do not know why Australian banks should be protected from any intrusion by other people because they certainly intrude into other people's business. The point I am making is that the instrument in writing is made by the Minister. There is no control by the Parliament over such instrument in writing. Regulations and ordinances are tabled in the Senate and the Regulations and Ordinances Committee considers them. Instruments in writing made by the Minister are not tabled and they do not come before the Committee. 
I have taken the opportunity to speak in the debate on this Bill because these are important aspects and because I believe that some consideration should be given to the matter of instruments in writing being tabled in the Senate and being subject to supervision and scrutiny by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. We in this place are all well aware of the fact that over the years the Committee has been very vigilant. Unquestionably there have been attempts to evade the Committee's scrutiny by bringing in instruments in writing instead of regulations and ordinances. I am not saying that that will happen in this case because the necessity may arise for speedy action to be taken, but I am convinced that it has been done in relation to various pieces of legislation in the past. I think it is time that we considered whether we should not make it compulsory for all instruments in writing to be tabled in the Senate and to be subject to disallowance. 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to give notice of motion for the disallowance of an Australian Capital Territory ordinance. 
I was surprised to hear Sena'or Byrne say that this was a matter of emotion and that what.  Senator Hannan  and other honourable senators have said in this debate was emotional, lt is my view that the very basis of the movement of people who are so strong about t,he abolition of the death penalty is emotion. I find that people who want the abolition of the death penalty are always worried about people who have committed crimes such as people who have killed other people or people who have done the most dastardly and shocking things. I should imagine that to a victim's relatives and close connections it must be a terrible circumstance. To me it seems that emotion is the very basis of people who want to wipe out the death penalty. When we look over the history of people who have been let out of prison after doing dastardly things, what do we find? They have done them again. Other -people have been killed. 
 J am not being emotional. I am being factual. These people have been lel out and as a result others have been killed. 
What about the fellow who raped several models in one of Sydney's parks? A kindly judge gave a parole period of so many years. Judges poke out their chests and say that they have put people in gaol for so many years -  10  or  15  years - 'but they are paroled after 4 years or some'hing like that. To my way of thinking, very often the courts are as weak as water. When these people are let out on parole we find that they do damage. What happened to the fellow whom I mentioned? He was released and he went to a school. An innocent young school girl was shot. A school teacher and another member of the staff or a pupil were also shot. These are people to whom emotional sympathy is given. As far as I am concerned in this human race of ours we might as well take an example from some of the lower order of animals which get rid of parts of their community which are not worth while. I think that we should do the same. As I said before, 1 believe in the death penalty. I resist  Senator Byrne's  suggestion that because somebody on this side speaks on something, it is emotional. Let me say that without any question whatsoever emotion is the basis of the advocacy of people who want to wipe out the death penalty - and very often misplaced humanitarianism 

 - Mr Chairman, despite what has been said, the crime of people putting bombs in aircraft and possibly hijacking aircraft is a terrible business. Either action could cause a loss of life in an aircraft. Because of the magnitude of the crime and the terror involved for the people in the aircraft, including the air crew, I think (hat this is a matter which should be looked at. Such a crime may cause an enormous loss of life. 
-r- 1 know that argument. What amazes me is the sympathy (hal is shed for the people who commit these crimes. Those who are opposed to capital punishment are shedding tears about the people who cause these terrible losses of life, in the instance under discussion, by placing a bomb in an aircraft. Let me draw this illustration: We had the case yesterday of Trans- World Airlines and the case of another American airline. Such incidents could happen here. Let us suppose that an airline company was asked for some millions of dollars. Let us suppose further that the money was paid to the persons committing the offence and that, in the meantime, because they had no control over the situation and because the situation was out of control, the bomb blew up one of the airline's planes carrying a load of passengers. What would happen? Our courts are kind-hearted today. They are so soft and gentle to wrong-doers that we would find that those responsible would be sen- tencedto a number of years in prison which would be cut considerably by parole. 
If they went there, they would really live a great life. Seriously, they would soon be out on parole. When they were released, it would be likely that the money that was paid to them would not have been recovered. Following their release, these people would be living in luxury because of the money that they had obtained in such a terrible way. This could happen. Let us consider the size of the aircraft in service today. As an example I mention the Boeing 747, the Jumbo jet. Let us assume that this happened on one of those jets carrying several hundred people. Those hundreds of people would be killed. Do honourable senators mean to tell me that it is a fair and reasonable thing for the individual who has committed such a mass crime to be able to enjoy in later life the ill-gotten gains that he received from some airline which had been frightened by him and had paid up? To me, in view of the terrible tragedy involved in such a crime, the idea is ridiculous. 
If somebody pinched my bike, I would say that that person was on the road to good health because he would be a cyclist in the future. I return to the serious business of considering this amendment. As far as I am concerned, to worry about the life of one person as against the lives of several hundred people is completely out of proportion. I think that there is no question about it: There is only one way to deal with people who indulge in this sort of thing - to get rid of them. 
Question put - 
That the proposed new clause 5 be inserted. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I will move that the Electricity Ordinance 1971 as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance 1971 No. 30 and made under the Seat of Government Administration Act 1910-1970 be disallowed. I ask leave to make a short statement concerning this notice of motion. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement concerning the business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 1, set down for 10 sitting days after 2nd March 1972. 
 Mr President,  I present the thirty-ninth report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a report upon certain regulations rendered invalid by a judgment of the High Court of Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it still the Government's intention to prohibit airlines granting a stopover or stopovers under the new single reduced fare as originally announced by Qantas Airways Ltd and, if so, for what reason? 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That paragraph (b) of section 5 and paragraph (c) of sub-section (1.) of section 8 of the Spearguns Control Ordinance 1971, as contained in Norfolk Islands Ordinance 1971 No. 11 and made under the Norfolk Island Act 1957-1969, be disallowed. 
1  have listened with great interest to this debate and have heard mention made of various technicalities associated with this legislation.  1  think that the simple issue of arbitration might well be considered by honourable senators. Being a simple type of person, lel me give what I think is a simple person's view in this regard. When the arbitration system was initiated in this country it was considered to be something which would get over our industrial troubles from the point of view of fixing wages and making sure that people received a reasonable deal. There is no reason why the arbitration system should not be working successfully, but it has not been as successful as  1  am sure the people who initiated it hoped that it would be. 
Why has it not been working successfully? ls it because the people arbitrating have not been doing the job properly or for some other reason? To me the reason is a simple one, that is, because very often one of the parties to the arbitration will not accept the decision. As far as  1  am concerned if the arbitration system is to be upheld it is only right that, a case having been put by each side to arbitration, the arbitrator's decision should be accepted. If it is felt by one of the parties to the arbitration that some other aspect should  be  considered (here is no reason why it could noi bc taken back to the arbitrator for reconsideration. We have found over a period of time that the decisions have not been accepted by the parties to the arbitration, mainly by the unions. We have found considerable lawlessness has broken out in recent years. Industry, trade and commerce have been experiencing difficulties as a result of the strike situation which is being brought about. 
 Most of the strikes are brought about by the actions of a few in the union movement. They are brought about not by the unionists in toto but very often by the actions of a few people who are in a position where they can declare a strike and the rest of the workers have to follow them like sheep. 
 I am saying that very often strikes take place in which the great majority of the people who have been brought out on strike are not in sympathy with the issue in dispute. Being a simple kind of person, I talk to lots of people. I have talked to people on strike and they have told  me  that they did not want to go on strike. I have said to them: 'Why did you not attend your meeting and tell your union that you did not want to go on strike?' Do honourable senators know what their reply was? lt was that they were afraid to do so. One of the unfortunate things that has occurred in the trade union movement has been the creation of fear in the minds of people who do not want to go on strike but who are frightened to express an opinion to that effect. 
1  have no doubt that lots of the members of the my Party would nol be very partial towards me, but at least I have always expressed myself according to what I have thought and I am expressing myself now as sincerely as  1  have done in the past. One thing  1  want to say about the Liberal Party of Australia is that although I have expressed myself in my own way over the years I have always been overwhelmingly re-endorsed by the people back home who want the Liberal Party to have an independence of mind. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! There are loo many interjections. 
 As  1  have said, very often industrial trouble is brought about by a few people dragging others out. I know that it cannot be said that that is not true. I have had associations with people in unions. I happen to have been paymaster for quite a number of years, as a younger man, on the waterfront at Mackay. 
1  got on very well with the wharf labourers, just as I got on very well with the Australian Labor Party. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I have warned honourable senators about there being too many interjections. 
 I can remember incidents that occurred way back in those days and the difficulties experienced by people who wanted to express a different point of view in the union movement. I well remember a man who had the courage to get up and express himself against an extreme element which was dominating the waterside workers at that time. I remember that he had to wear a beard for the rest of his life because on his way home he was bashed. He carried scars from that incident for the rest of his life. Do not think that as a paymaster in that period I was not associated with some people who were prominent in the union movement. One of them was the late Jim Healy, long before he became prominent in the waterside workers' movement. I was there when he began to move up in it. I can remember as a paymaster dealing with lim Healy. I stood up to him on that occasion and on some later occasion also. My knowledge of what goes on is that unfortunately the decision of the majority of people as to what shall be done in union affairs is not always adhered to. It is an unfortunate fact that very often a few people control the decisions of a great majority of people. 
As I have mentioned, the arbitration system was brought in to level out the position and to give a fair deal  to  everyone. I regard that as being an ideal about which we should all be pleased and of which we should all be proud. I think all of us who are sincere hope for the very successful operation of the arbitration system. But it cannot work if the parties to arbitration will not accept the decisions of the people who are appointed to adjudicate. I know that some may argue about who should adjudicate in arbitration cases. I heard  Senator Cavanagh  comment about this subject. He is a man for whom I have a great regard. He is a very valuable member of a committee of which I am  chairman.  I always appreciate his analytical mind.  Senator Cavanagh  talked about the kind of people who are appointed as arbitrators. He spoke about judges and this and that. Apparently in his opinion this legislation should not remain within the status of a judge. I am not one who is very keen about judges in the arbitration system. I would say that the legal fraternity has less contact with and less feeling for the industrial movement than anyone else. I said in the Senate some years ago that the last man to contact for advice on a business proposition is a legal man and the last man to ask for advice on a sales campaign is one's accountant because he will kill any sales campaign. 
1 am not worried about that. The Attorney-General is not a judge. So far as I am concerned it would be much better to have practical people in the arbitration system rather than judges and members of the legal fraternity. But that does not get away from the point that arbitration as we know it is said to be impartial and, regardless of whether one likes the decision, the best decision is made by the person who has been put in the position of having to arbitrate. In those circumstances it is up to both parties to the arbitration to accept the decision. 
But what has been happening? Very often the decision has not been accepted. The unions have said: 'We will not accept the decision. We demand more'. The result is that the union leaders take their unions out on strike. It is very nice to talk in an heroic way about the downtrodden workers and the rights of the worker to do this and that, including to go on strike because he does not agree with a decision given by an arbitration court, but what would the unions say if, as a result of an arbitration court giving a decision to workers or the employers were to say: 'We think it is too tough. We are going on strike. We are going to pay off everybody'? What would the unions say in that case? 
I will come to that point. That is very true. The position is one cannot have it all one's own way. One has to be fair. Employers have to accept a decision which they think is favourable to the unions. It is up to the unions to accept the decision of the arbitration system also. Unions cannot have it both ways. Their attitude should be fair and according to a decision. I know that a weakness has developed in the whole system because of the lawlessness of certain unions which will not abide by decisions and which try to demand what they want irrespective of the arbitration system. 
We hear a lot about lock-outs and this is exactly the point I am getting at. If the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made a decision which the employers did not like and if they locked out the employees there would be such a hullabaloo about it that we would never hear the end of it. Yet the employees can go on strike whenever they want to. It is a case of their wanting it their way all the time. Unfortunately the view which is held on the other side of the Senate stands up for the lawlessness of unions. I do not think that any of us should stand for lawlessness. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! Honourable senators who are interjejcting should not strain my patience any further. The honourable senator will be heard in silence from now on. 
The point I want to make is that either we have an arbitration commission which makes a decision and we accept that decision or we do not have arbitration at all and we go back to the law of the jungle. In fact we have almost  a  law of the jungle because of the lawlessness of the unions at the present time. I do not think that this can go on. When the unions go on strike whom do they strike against? Do they strike against the employer? Of course they do not. They strike against the people of this nation because every strike not only injures the unions but also it injures many other people and the welfare of this country of ours. There is no question about that. 
I think that in this 20th century for unions to be taking on the strike weapon is really getting back into the dark, dim ages. I think it shows that so far as the union leaders are concerned they really have not come far along the track of enlightenment. Because of what they do they injure their own people and they injure lots of other employees who are thrown out of work - inoffensive people who have no intention of going out on strike. But what do the union leaders do? Do they go without pay during the strike period? How many of them go without pay? I really think that if the Government had strength it would introduce legislation which would provide that when unions go on strike and union members are not being paid the union leaders would not receive any pay also. I think that if that came about we would not have very many strikes at all. Unfortunately the leaders are paid while union members have to go on the bread line for some time, lt is very nice for the unions to get a decision their way. If they do not get it their way they want to go out on strike. As I have said, if the employers did the same what would the unions say? But let us take this situation a little further. 
What we have to recognise is that in this democracy of ours we are dependent upon each other. We all play a part which, collectively, makes this country a fit place or otherwise in which to live. If we do not perform properly then there is lopsided development. It is very nice for the unions to go out on strike and affect other people. They disrupt things such as the Post Office and communications. Unions involved in transport which go on strike disrupt transport and this affects people getting to and from their place of work. Other strikes create shortages and difficulties for people. What would the very unions which go on strike say if the farmers and other food producers of this nation decided to go on strike and there was no food for the union people? What would they say about that? They would yell to high heaven about it. They would say: Those beef barons, those rural people are starving our union people.' There is no difference between this situation and one in which a union goes on strike. What do the unions do when they go on strike? They cause great discomfort, inconvenience and shortage of goods for their fellow people in this country. 
Yes, it adds to inflation and lots of other things. But this is what is happening because of the lawlessness of unions today. My senate colleague who will be following after I have spoken has mentioned these things which are passed on. The unions can demand high pay. They can demand more of this and more of that. Is it not time we put a bit of sense into this business and realised that when these increases occur they have to be passed on. Who pays for them? The fellow workers of the unionists pay for them. What are they doing? They are continually lifting wages and continually lifting the cost of living. 
I have not met him. 
If 1 have a million dollars it will not be used on myself, lt will be given to some worthy cause. 
If 1 have one million dollars it will be given to care for old people who need care, i will never use any money of mine for myself, lt will be used for others. That is my philosophy in life. As one of  Senator Poyser's  colleagues interjected the demand for more and more is only causing increased costs. It is causing a greater cost of living for the unionists' colleagues. I think that what we have to do is to bring back responsibility into unionism in its relationship to the arbitration system and the acceptance of decisions by that system. Unless we can obtain that we will never get anywhere. I ?m quite convinced that there are certain union leaders who do not want stability and confidence in the arbitration system. Because of their political thinking and ideologies, they do not want this country to have peace in industry and business. All sorts of techniques are brought out. 1 believe that this legislation could well bring with it a responsibility towards the arbitration system. 1 have mentioned penalties. Someone said that there should not be any penal clauses. Of course there should not have to be any penal clauses. There should not have to be any laws which imprison people for stealing. There should not have to be any penalties against people for killing. There should not be any penalties against anybody for doing wrong. If we, as human beings, live and act rightly towards our fellow men and women there should not be any need for laws to put people in prison and to inflict other forms of punishment. 
There should not be any need for penalties in the arbitration system if everybody accepts the system in toto and properly. It is only when people will not accept and abide by it that penal clauses become necessary. I feel that because of the lawlessness of certain unions, this Bill is being forced on the people. Those unions are to blame for the maintenance of penalties in this arbitration legislation. I feel that what has been going on in this section of Government administration has forced the Government to legislate along these lines. Recently there was a ban on the repair of telephones, which was spoken of earlier in the debate. Subscribers bad to wait a long time before they got service. They could not get service until the union made certain concessions, decreeing that some people could have their telephones repaired and others could not. Telephone installation and repair are services that people should be able to expect in this modern world. Why should people in any organisation determine that they shall not do this or that when they are paid to do both those items of work? Action like that which does not indicate any degree of responsibility, forced the Government to bring in this kind of legislation. 
When industrial trouble of that sort arises the union leaders, with the leaning they have a certain way, drag out a cou ple of key men. They do not want peace in industry. They bring out a couple of key men, who in turn drag out probably another 20. Under the existing legislation they were paid. Under this legislation, those other 20 men, with the 2 or 3 key men, will not be paid. Do honourable senators not think this is reasonable? What would they feel about it if they were running a business? Let them put themselves in the place of other people in this regard. Do they not think that there should be some responsibility? Do they think union leaders should be able to use that sort of technique as an irritant? There is no question that irritating tactics have been prominent in the minds of certain union organisations. The sooner that strong legislation is introduced, forcing those people to see reason, the better it will be for this country. 

 Senator Cavanagh, in speaking about strikes, said that some senators did not know anything about them. Industrial disputes are not always between employer and employee. A great number of strikes today are brought about on demarcation issues beteen unions, one union going out on strike because it says that certain work should be done by its members while the union whose members are doing the job maintains that it is the work of its members. What happens? This is nothing whatever to do with business people or the industry affected; it is merely 2 unions engaged in a fight. Recently the ACTU talked on this matter. This sort of thing is going on because of lawlessness in unions. It is a matter of 2 unions fighting, causing disruption, and it has nothing whatsoever to do with the employers. The 2 unions engage in a fight about whether work should be done by members of their union. 
 I am talking about unionism. The incident I mentioned of a few key people being brought out and dragging other people out occurred in the Post Office section of the Public Service. 
 I am not here to go into details; I am talking on the broad principle. 
 lt has happened in the Post. Office. What do they do in the Post Office? At Christmas time, when mail delays cause the most inconvenience, they cause trouble. The union leader comes out and says: 'We are not trying to inconvenience the people.' Oh no! The unions do these things at peak times. Why? Because it. is most inconvenient to the people at peak times such as Christmas and Easter, and on special occasions such as show time. Why do they do it? They feel that their action will cause heavy loss of business at that time and great inconvenience, and that someone will weaken and give way. 
 Do not argue with me. The technique of these unions is evident. They do these things at a time when it is most inconvenient to the people, when they feel they can make the strongest threat, and when they think employers and governments might weaken and give way. 
 1 have seen lots of things happen in unions that make one think how childish they are. Union leaders sometimes indulge in the antics of children. They play on this sort of thing. Many of them have a strong leaning towards other places outside this country. They are out to disrupt business and industry in this country as much as possible. 
 There are several countries. We do not know which countries they are supporting, but they have certain ideologies. Some union leaders openly admit they are communists.  Senator Poyser  knows that as well as 1 do. Does he mean to tell me that, those people want peace in business and industry in this country? Of course not. This legislation could bring responsibility into the arbitration system as it affects the federal section of employees, and there is no reason why, if properly and strongly administered, it should not achieve success. A good deal of the lawlessness in this country has been brought about by the leadership of certain unions. The way to counteract this to a great extent is by strong legislation and strength in enforcing it. The Government must display strength wherever possible when people within its own organisation become lawless. It should display the same strength when any industrial union plays up and goes beyond the bounds of decency. The arbitration system is designed to be fair to everyone, but unless everyone accepts the decision of the arbitration court, the system cannot work. We would return to the law as it was before arbitration. If arbitration is good, let us accept the decisions. I think that any person with any degree of responsibility who finds union leaders inciting unions generally and inciting them to refuse to accept the decisions of arbitration should, like the great mass of Australian people, condemn the unions for their lawlessness in not accepting the decisions of arbitration. 
 Make no bones about it,  Senator Milliner,  the majority of people in this country believe in arbitration and in people accepting the decisions of the Arbitration Court. Not only the employers need to be strong: the Government also needs to be strong and to stand firm on the legislation which gives it power.  I  am convinced that, if that strength were shown by the Government and by industry, in no time we would have peace in business and industry and we would put the left wing leaders of so many unions back where they deserve to be. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In reply to a question asked of him by  Senator Jessop  the Minister stated that there was an insistence by the Commonwealth Government, in view of the great amount of money it provided to universities, that there shall be proper conduct at the universities to enable students to study. I ask: What steps are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to express this insistence? What steps have been taken by the Commonwealth Government to protest at the damage caused to property at universities, such property having been paid for by the taxpayers of this country? 
I desire to ask a question of the Attorney-General. Does he remember a statement which the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  made recently in which he said that it was all right for draft resisters to break the law? Does he consider that that was a very dangerous statement to come from  Mr Whitlam,  particularly as he is a member of the legal profession as well as being the Leader of the Opposition? Does he consider that that statement by  Mr Whitlam  has been a dangerous encouragement to university students, demonstrators and others to break the law, as happened at the University of Sydney a few days ago? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Does he not consider that it is wrong for people to set up camp on the lawn square in front of Parliament House? If so, when will the Minister and the Government act to remove the camps which have been in front of this Parliament House for many weeks? 
1 have very great pleasure in speaking in the debate on this Bill as it relates to my own State of Queensland. It involves the matter of aid to that State, lt is of very great interest to learn how applications for grants are considered by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. One particular paragraph, crystallised into a very few words, shows the basis upon which assessments of grants to States are made, lt says that special grants are justified when a State, through financial stress from any cause, is unable efficiently to discharge its functions as a member of the Federation and should be determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for that State by a reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below the other States. So far as my State is concerned, this request for a grant is something new. The grant has been decried by some honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. I feel that if my State can get this money to assist it Queensland senators should welcome such a grant. It is not right for honourable senators from that State to decry our State to such an extent that it appears in the public mind to be a State not very worthy of much consideration. 

 - Senator Keeffe has made his speech and I did not interject then. I do not worry about interjections- 
 Senator Keeffe  at various times certainly takes the opportunity to degrade his State and this is entirely wrong. 
 The honourable senator said that be degraded the Government. One of the fascinating things about this debate is that anything that the present CountryLiberal Party Government in Queensland has done has been wrong in the eyes of Labor senators. Of course, they say, the good thing for Queensland was the previous Labor Government. I sat here entranced last night- 
 I said 'entranced'. I was entranced at the very fine story of the Gair Government which was put forward by Labor senators in this chamber. I am convinced on the view expressed by Labor senators that they had a very high regard for the Gair Labor Government when it was in office. It would appear to me that honourable senators opposite are dripping tears of sympathy over the loss of the Gair Labor Government in Queensland. So much was I taken by this story told by honourable senators opposite that I got the impression that Queensland senators on the other side of the chamber really have gone over to the Democratic Labor Party. It looks as though the DLP will have an influx of present Labor senators and I warn  Senator McManus  that he had better be prepared to open the ranks a little further. 
I never vote against my Government unless I feel the need to do so. That is a privilege we have on this side of the House and I exercise it whenever necessary. I make a judgment of legislation and decide what will benefit the country most and vote accordingly. 
I do not care what my Party members call me. All I worry about is that when I lay my head down at night my heart and conscience can rest easily. I do not care what anybody thinks about me as long as what I do is right. What people in this chamber think about me does not worry me. It is what the people of Queensland think about me with which I am most concerned. We have heard this very gloomy story about Queensland but I feel that Queensland has a most fascinating story to tell. It is a story of progress, prosperity and development since the present Country-Liberal Party Government took office. 
It was not I who was praising him. I am glad to hear  Senator Mulvihill  praise him. I say quite honestly that he was a good Premier. I am quite happy to see quality in the Opposition. There are some honourable senators on the Opposition side to whom I pay a tribute for their quality. So I am never blind to the quality that there is on the other side of the chamber. I hope 
I will always feel that way. The story of the development of Queensland is a very fascinating one, particularly in the mining field. Over the years there has been a transformation. I will not accuse the previous State Labor Government of having fallen down in its dealings with matters such as coal because in days gone by, I think when  Senator Gair  was the Premier, coal was a drug on the market. There was difficulty in getting people to take coal. In my district of Mackay there is one of the biggest coal fields in Australia. For years it was impossible to get people to take coal at all and a great deal of credit is due to the late Ernie Evans, the previous Minister for Mines, for encouraging men like Thiess Bros to go out into this area to drill and to find coal. Very often, of course, such endeavours come about by the development of markets. 
I have a great respect for  Dr Patterson  but these moves were made many years before  Dr Patterson  appeared on the political scene. For years efforts were made to try to get some interest taken in what are now magnificent coal fields. The late Ernie Evans, who was the Minister at the time, gave strong encouragement to this development. He must have realised that one of the great opportunities that would come to this country would be the big industrial development in Japan which lies to the north of us. What has been done makes a very fine story. Opposition senators were talking about the small royalty paid by the people taking the coal out. The royalty paid to the Queensland Government is 5c a ton. However, it is not just royalty that counts but what else flows to the economy of the State. Whatever royalty is fixed by the State Government is fixed for the whole term of the lease operated by the mining company. But there are other ways in which the Government can receive far more considerable benefits than the simple royalty. Last night  Senator Georges  spoke about the line to Goonyella which runs south of Mackay. He asked: What does Mackay get from it? During the building and development of the railway line to the fields and also the development of the mine, the city and district of Mackay received very strong help in their development and great wealth has been brought to the area as a result of this development at Goonyella. 
1 will tell  Senator McAuliffe  how much investment there is in it. This project is being undertaken by Utah Construction and Engineering Pty Ltd, an American company. Honourable senators opposite, including  Senator McAuliffe,  have spoken about the 5c royalty. However, there has been a railway line built in this area at a cost of $36m which in a matter of a few years, during which time there will be payment of rail charges for the carrying of coal to the coast, will be handed over free to the State Government of Queensland. The construction cost of that line, $36m, represents the equivalent of 75c a ton royalty. 
It is not a confidential concession rate. I know what the honourable senator is talking about. What I am trying to tell honourable senators is that the line has been built and over a number of years the freight rates will pay for it. lt will then become the property of the Queensland Government free of charge.  Sir Gordon  Chalk in a statement made in the 'Courier Mail' away back on 10th February 1969 said: 
The State will receive $50m from Goonyella over 12) years. 
Of course this is a magnificent contribution. To talk about royalties only - they are chickenfeed. The Opposition has been talking about 10c or 15c. Honourable senators will see that what the Queensland Government has done is better by far than what the Opposition has talked about. Earlier in a speech the Premier said: 
Just think carefully what the Goonyella agreement means. We have negotiated an agreement whereby the Utah company has to supply every penny to build the railway line which the Queensland Government will control and operate with the first shipment of coal and in 121 years the whole debt will be redeemed and the railway handed over to the Government at no cost (o the people of Queensland. 
I think a very fine job has been done by the Queensland Government to bring that about. I think that was much better than fixing  a  higher royalty, because I ask honourable senators to remember that the royalty rate cannot be altered once it is fixed, but the rail freight rates can be increased whenever it is desired. So with altering economic conditions it is within the control of the Queensland Government to maintain its rate of profit on the coal area, comparable with the rate applicable when the project started. 
I would say that they did not understand the situation. 
If the Treasury officials said that they did not understand the situation. 
I do not care what they said. One has to look at the situation in terms of pounds, shillings and pence or dollars, whatever honourable senators would like to term it. Queensland will benefit greatly as a result of this development Over a period of years we will find flowing into Queensland great wealth because of the development of our coal. 
No, unfortunately, I do not have any shares in Goonyella. I think that a company was floated in Australia and that quite a number of Australians hold shares. I know that Labor senators, and Opposition senators in general, talk about selling the country. As they term it, foreigners are coming in and digging out our coal. Let me remind honourable senators that it is all right having coal but the thing to do is to use it. Changes in industry are taking place. New inventions and new ideas are coming out. There are changes in the treatment of copper and in the iron and steel industry, and so on. The point is that if we do not sell this coal now we might find that we will have to keep it because we will never be able to sell it. It is rather interesting to note that in completing this deal the Queensland Government was well aware that, in the long term, there must be a diminishing market for coking coal. The position was put very well in a statement in the 'Courier Mail' of 23rd January by the Professor of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering at the Queensland University, Professor R. L. Whitmore. The statement was reported as follows: 
He so properly pointed out that steel-making methods might well dispense, in the long term, with the need for huge quantities of coking coal. 
The professor made a particularly pertinent remark in his Press report when he said: 'Let's get some of it (the coal) out and get something back for it'. 
These remarks were particularly appropriate when regard is had to the fact that the State was able to obtain most lucrative terms and conditions in negotiating such a long-term agreement. 
It is probably easy to say and to think that that will not happen. But it is happening. Already changes have been made in the steel making industry. To indicate that changes do take place in the coal industry let us look at our gas coal areas such as Rosewood. We know that many of the mines in that area were closed down because of the change that took place. There were no orders for the gas-making coal and, as a consequence, a lot of those mines have been closed down. The position is this: Not only is the Government of Queensland receiving a royalty and high profits from the utilisation of the railways carrying coal to the coast, so opening up sparsely populated areas, but also the railway lines are being used for the carrying of goods and crops such as grain. This is helping to develop those sparsely populated areas. This is playing a magnificent part in the development of our country. Also these mining projects which are going on in Queensland have a flow-on. The Premier in a statement gave figures to prove that the flow-on benefit from mineral operations to the State's economy was incontestable. 
Let us look at the railway revenue from mining. From 1967 to 1968 the revenue from the Mount Isa area was $7,435,209. From Moura it was $5,223,262. From Blackwater for the 1968 calendar year it was about $3im. I turn now to harbour dues at main ports. At Weipa, which of course ships bauxite, the harbour dues increased from $140,509 in 1965-66 to $686,536 in 1967-68. At Gladstone the figure increased from less than $500,000 in 1965-66 to about $750,000 in 1967-68. In Townsville the figure for harbour dues rose to $722,000-odd in 1965-66. Subsequent figures are not available because of other reasons. This will give honourable senators an idea of the flow-on in matters of harbour dues and other things. But what about employment? At Weipa 307 people are working plus 103 contractors. Wages, excluding contractors', amounted to $ 1.66m yearly. Capital expenditure by Comalco is $25.4m. The Government's expenditure of $5. 2m has been mainly on the harbour and port works which enables the Government to maintain control of the port. In Mount Isa, because of mining, the urban population is 16,877. Mine employees number 4,766 with 142 contractors, totalling 4,908. At Moura there are 434 miners above ground and 125 below, making a total of 559. Another development is Utah-Blackwater with 188 people working. 
This is the way the situation goes, lt is a fantastic story of development and decentralisation. It is an exciting story of employment and a more exciting story of prosperity for the State. Mining is very important to Queensland. The national development authorities in the Federal sphere estimate that mining exports will be worth $l,000m to this country by 1973. Of this amount $140m will be contributed by the aluminium industry. The aluminium industry is very important to Queensland. By 1980, 25 per cent of the world's aluminium is expected to come from the Australian industry. Six hundred men are employed by Queensland Alumina Ltd at Gladstone, at a plant which processes the bauxite from Weipa. The plant's rated capacity recently was increased by 50 per cent to 900,000 long tons. Some idea of the immensity of the project can be gained from the fact that that expansion meant the addition of 10,000 tons of steel, 32,000 cubic yards of concrete and 45 miles of piping. The Queensland Alumina company has now invested SI 60m in the construction of the Gladstone refinery. The capital investment of $115m for the original plant and $40m for stage 2 represented the greatest infusion of capital into any Queensland industry in such a short space of time. 
The Comalco project also was fostered by the present CountryLiberal Party Government. Honourable senators will remember that  Mr Ernie  Evans was Minister for Mines at that time. Because of his farsightedness and his vision, we see this magnificent result. 
Mount Isa was started many years ago. 
I am not saying that the present Government started it. It was started long before that Government came to power. But under that Government it has received further encouragement and, as a consequence, it has developed further, until today Mount lsa is a magnificent mine. To be quite fair,  1  should say that when Mount Isa was started the government of the day played an important part in the original development. So the cumulative actions of governments in Queensland over a period of time have developed this area into a mining proposition of which we as Queenslanders can be very proud. 
In the days of the Gair Government. 
To give an idea of what this sort of project means to the country, I point out that next year Queensland Alumina Ltd will consume 2 million tons of Weipa bauxite, 150,000 tons of fuel oil from a refinery in Brisbane, 60,000 tons of central Queensland limestone - that is another industry in Queensland - 2,000 tons of central Queensland sorghum flour, 370,000 tons of central Queensland coal and 30 megawatts of electricity. In 1969 this company was expected to contribute more than $13m to the economy for labour and services, exclusive of moneys spent on raw materials sad supplies. In addition, the company was expected to produce alumina for export valued at more than $40m, giving a large boost to the national income of this country. That is a very important point. 
I know that honourable senators opposite are always talking about foreign money, but this does not mean only that foreign money is coming into the country; it means also many advantages to this country. 
The Opposition deliberately ignores the fact that money is flowing in as a result of these major mining prospects. Queensland Alumina Ltd is just one example of this. Labour senators concentrate on royalty payments. How many times must we repeat that royalties in mineral development are a minimum factor, a minimum part of the benefit to the State. The State of Queensland and the country as a whole receive from mining much greater benefits than just the royalties. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  you will cease interjecting. I have warned you repeatedly and I will not allow continual disobedience of the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order  Senator Georges,  you will cease interrupting. 
I have not much time left because of the fact- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! Do you have a point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- What is your point of order? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Georges,  you will resume your seat. You cannot rise to a point of order for the purpose of making a speech. There is no substance in the point of order. 
Because my time has been cut in half through interjections, no doubt deliberately, let me just outline some of the important features of these projects. They have been brought into effect by the Country-Liberal Party Government in Queensland and have created employment in quite a number of areas, decentralisation, and so on. Let me give a striking illustration of the advantages of these projects in respect of school students. In Blackwater in 1965 only 35 children were enrolled in the school. In 1972 the number rose to 570 because of the development of this coal field. In 1975 the number of enrolments is expected to be 900, whereas in 1965 it was only 35. If the State of Queensland is supposed to be so badly run, these figures prove rather interesting. Putting the position in short terms, the Queensland Government was the only State government in Australia, to my knowledge, that made a profit on its railway operations. 
The State of Victoria has been harassed by the terrific losses that it has suffered. The other States are in a similar position. Yet Queensland has made a profit. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! You have no point of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - At the present time you are grossly out of order in criticising the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I call  Senator Wood, 
Of course, these interruptions are deliberately designed to cut into my time. Last night  Senator Georges  was weeping tears about New South Wales coal mines closing down. Why did they close down? The reason is that over a period of years the New South Wales Labor Minister for Mines, who had been a miner, was persuaded by the miners to try to prevent open cut mining. What happened as a result? One of these mines was producing 3 tons per man-day. In modern conditions who can operate a mine on 3 tons per man-day? What did the coal miners from a mine which was closed down do recently? They took over the mine unlawfully. What happened? They produced 1 ton per man-day. This is the sort of thing that has been happening. When the Rosewood mines in Queensland closed because they were not receiving orders for gas coal, did the New South Wales mines and miners come to the rescue by sending orders for gas coal? Of course they did not. 
Let us have a look at the record of those miners in New South Wales. How many strikes did they have over the 4 or 5 year period? What were the reasons for the strikes? How long did they last? How was production affected? The New South Wales miners are squealing, but they have only themselves to blame. By their strikes, their disturbances and their upsetting of production, they have made it uneconomic for mines to work in those areas. My time has been eaten into by all these interjections. No doubt this was done for a purpose. Today Queensland is on the great road of prosperity because the Country-Liberal Party Government has achieved so much in developing the great mining projects in the wonderful State of Queensland. Last night honourable senators opposite were electioneering in the speeches they made, but they were whistling up their sleeves because on the 27th of this month Queensland will again have a Country-Liberal Party government. 
In the course of the debate on the motion for the third reading of this Bill  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned the non-expenditure of moneys by the Queensland Government in regard to old people's homes. Queensland over many years has subsidised the building of old people's homes. Possibly the records will show that it was the first State to do so. 
The honourable senator was talking about old people's homes. The Queensland Government has been subsidising them on a State basis, and so has the Federal Government. 
This is not a Commonwealth subsidy, it is a State subsidy. As a matter of fact, speaking as one who has been in local government for a long time, the Queensland Government has subsidised the building of aged people's homes. Please do not tell me 1 do not know what I am talking about because I am not one of those people who go drinking in a bar and then cannot remember what I am talking about. It is the truth; the Queensland Government did build aged people's homes. 
What 1 mean is that I have a clear mind on this matter so do not tell me that I do not know what I am talking about. 
 Senator Cavanagh  knows what I am talking about as well as I do. He has a pretty clear mind and I always pay him that tribute. There has been quite a bit of feeling in this debate. It was said that there was an electioneering aspect about it. I would say that there is no question about it. The debate from the other side of the chamber did have an election flair to it and 1 am quite confident that if the Queensland elections were not to be held on 27th May we would not have had the outburst that we have had. The whole tenor of what has been said by Opposition speakers has been to denigrate Queensland, which is my State, whereas we should be seeking to uphold the State and show its good features. During the course of  Senator Keeffe's  address, and just as I went back to my office, he talked about rail freights and some companies getting them cheaply. He spoke also about mining companies and indicated that 1 was a director of a mining company. There is no company with which I am associated in any way which could be placed in the category that  Senator Keeffe  referred to. None are using the Queensland Railways to obtain cheap freights. What I emphasised is that the railway lines built by these companies will bring great benefits to the State. 
These lines were paid for by the mining companies. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Mr Prowse)  - Order! I have indicated already in this debate that honourable senators are not allowed to traverse arguments that have already been put. 
The statements are being refuted but what I am telling is the truth. The building of the railway lines has been paid for completely by the mining companies. The lines ultimately will become the property of the Queensland Government at no cost and will over the years return a handsome profit to Queensland, much greater than the piffling royalty honourable senators opposite are talking about. Queensland has done a terriffic job and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is a very strong leader who is not afraid to stand up to demonstrators against the South African footballers or cricketers. I understand that one of the men who encouraged the State Government to seek grants was  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the Minister for Housing in this Parliament. If that is the case, and I believe it to be the case, it shows that he is a very good Queenslander who is looking after the interests of Queensland. I am very pleased to see this grant being made because I know it will be handled very well by the very capable Government of Queensland which will still be the Government after 27th May. 
I withdraw notice of motion No. 1, Business of the Senate, standing in my name and I seek leave to make a statement in regard to the matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
As regards this notice of motion, relating to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Ordinance 1971, I wish to acquaint the Senate that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was concerned with provisions in this ordinance v/hereby the Electricity Authority was empowered to enter upon a lessor's property, after notice, and trim or lop any tree which in the opinion of the Authority was interfering, or might interfere with, electrical wires. The Committee was concerned that this provision gave to the Authority an unduly wide power and provided the citizen with no redress in case of the misuse of that power. In response to the submissions from the Committee, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has given an undertaking that the ordinance will be amended so as to provide that whether the trees are interfering with wires will be a question for objective determination, and will not depend upon the opinion of the Authority, and that the person who regards the Authority's notice that trees must be trimmed or looped as unreasonable will have a right to a review of the notice by a court. It will also be provided that the cost of lopping trees which were on a parcel of land before electricity wires were established will be borne by the Authority and not by the occupier as previously provided. The Committee was also concerned with certain provisions relating to the rights of persons licensed under the ordinance and, in this area, the Minister has also given assurances that the ordinance will be amended so as to meet the points raised by the Committee. The Committee wishes to express its sincere appreciation of the courtesy and co-operation which it has received from the Minister in regard to this ordinance and other ordinances recently examined by the Committee. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a statement in the Press to the effect that Qantas Airways Ltd is about to initiate a low fare between Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and other South East Asian countries? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether there is any truth in this statement and, if there is, can he give honourable senators any information relating to the proposal. 
I ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. 
Order! The honourable senator should be allowed to proceed. 
-The point of order is not upheld,  i take the  view that the word filibuster' is in quite common usage and I therefore do not uphold the point of order. 
In those circumstances it follows that there is no deprivation of the existing rights that we have and no action which takes away a particular organisation's current rights at law. It may be - I do not know - that some organisations are proceeding to a stage at which they would be able to utilise the pre-existing provisions. But, if they are doing that, they are doing it without any publicity and, as I would see it, seeking to beat the gun. They would be seeking to do it before this legislation became operative. If they fail in that objective, I think that it is only their own way of going about activities which they have to blame. I have received the telegram to which  Senator Murphy  referred. I think that I received another telegram from  Mr Short  of the Federated Ironworkers Association. These pleas simply were to postpone this legislation until some date in the future. The Government's intention was that these provisions should come into force as soon as possible. It is not possible to postpone into an indefinite stage in the future these new amalgamation provisions. 
The Government's intention has been made known for almost 5 weeks. In that period no representations were made to the Government to hold off the operation of these new amalgamation provisions because some union was well on the way to effecting its amalgamation under the old provisions. I cannot say what the Government's attitude would have been. But at least if there had been such an application one would have known and a decision could have been made accordingly. But there has not been. In those circumstances, if the effect of the putting down of a cut-off date is to prevent some organisations which are on the road towards effecting an amalgamation from achieving it under the old provisions, I feel that this is a consequence which numbers of people in the context of different types of legislation from time to time experience. 
Let me emphasise that the Government believes that the new amalgamation procedures are proper procedures which will enable amalgamation if the members of the organisations want that amalgamation. I do not believe that we should assert the position that amalgamations are all right but that it does not matter whether or not the rank and file are given an opportunity to vote upon them. We believe that there should be appropriate procedures which will enable the advantages and the disadvantages of amalgamation to be made known to the various members of the organisations, that the members of the organisations will have the opportunity to vote, not in accordance with the rules of the organisations but in accordance with the way in which a court conducted ballot will ensure that the election is conducted fairly and so that there should be an effective membership decision as to whether or not the amalgamation is to proceed. I do not believe that members of the- 
 Mr Deputy President,  1 have to report, as Temporary  Chairman,  that during the proceedings of the Committee  Senator Georges  committed an offence, having continually disobeyed the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! If there are any further interjections, somebody else will be named. J have been informed by the Temporary  Chairman, Senator Wood,  of the naming of  Senator Georges.  Under the customary proceedings,  Senator Georges  has the opportunity to apologise to the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! You are not being given an opportunity to debate the ruling. You are being given an opportunity to apologise. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Georges,  I will hear your explanation. 
Chairman of Committees whether it was in order for the Minister to speak for some  10 to  15 minutes, to raise certain new points during that time which necessitated a response from the Opposition and then to move the gag to prevent not only me but also other Opposition senators from speaking. At that point I raised a point of order. I was not in any way disrespectful to the Chair, nor was I insulting to any senator opposite. I merely raised the point of order. I felt I was entitled to raise that point of order. However, may I make the comment that the method by which the Temporary  Chairman  did name mc - I make this point clear even though I may offend - seemed to indicate some prior intent. Perhaps my behaviour- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Georges,  you may not reflect upon the decision of the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Georges,  I have heard your explanation. I also heard the incident from outside the chamber. The fact of the matter is that you defied a ruling of the Chair that your point of order was not sustained and you continued to debate that ruling with the Chair. Clearly that is disorderly conduct. No doubt you were under some misapprehension and were not deliberately defying the Chair. Accordingly I give you the opportunity to apologise for your conduct. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I will not entertain points of order while I am hearing an explanation.  Senator Georges,  you may continue. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Thank you,  Senator Georges. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I suggest that the Senate adopt the course proposed by the Acting Leader of the Government. 
In Committee 
Consideration resumed. 
Motion (by  Senator Greenwood)  put: 
That the question  be  now put. 
One of the difficulties with the Taxation Office is this lack of clarity or definition in telling people what they must pay tax on. From What the Minister has said, it appears as though there is still some doubt, depending upon the circumstances. The Taxation Office has got a lot of people into trouble and has got itself into a lot of trouble because it has not had any clear definition on this point. The result is that nobody knows just what taxation they are up for. If this Bill does not give this clarity of definition, it really is not a very progressive step. Actually I think that the Taxation Office is paying now for its foolishness over a period of years in being so grasping at other times as far as share transactions are concerned. 

 Senator Dame NANCY BUTTFIELD (South Australia) (8.14)  -  I am still thinking about the case of the individual who forms an investment company. I accept in part what the Minister said by way of answer to the effect that each case is an individual one. But could not some guidelines be given to individuals, who may be considering the formation ofan investment company or who mayhave an investment company and who may be considering buying shares as an investment? They do not know whether that action means that they are carrying on a business and therefore they would be subject to the provision of section 26a. 
I think the Government has included in the Bill a weak and watered down version of what the National Health and Medical Research Council wanted. Those of us in public life should know the right words to use in speeches. There is no question that the more simple the words used the more easily the meaning is conveyed to someone else. We have heard people making speeches and when they have sat down, what have we said to ourselves? We have said: 'He is a spinner of words. What did he say?'. We cannot remember what he said because he just spun words. On the other hand we hear a  speaker  who gives a speech in simple terms and, because of its simplicity, it is remembered; the message is conveyed to us. From our point of view, as a Government, if we think that something is a danger to the health of the people, it is our duty to convey the message to the people in as simple terms as possible. I think that the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland proposes a more effective warning than that put forward by the Government. What does it say? It says that the National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health. 
 Senator Marriott  asks Who are they?'. 'They' are the National Health and Medical Research Council. I do not think the views expressed by  Senator Marriott  will be conveyed to the average person who reads the warnings. He feels that reference to the National Health and Medical Research Council would make people think of big brother or the Government, which people would resent. I believe that we should use the simple terms National Health and Medical Research Council'. The reference to 'health' and medical' will convey to the average person that somebody of authority is speaking. I do not think the message can be conveyed to the people in any other way. The National Health and Medical Research Council is a body which really knows what it is talking about. To put it in plain terms that cigarette smoking is dangerous is much simpler and much easier to understand than to say that smoking is hazardous. Everybody knows what a hazard is but of course everybody is not educated to the same standard and everybody does not think the same. Therefore it is necessary to make these terms as simple as possible. I think that to say in a positive, direct way that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health will convey a lot more meaning to people than to use the phrase which the Government has proposed. If we are trying to convey something to the people, let us have it in terms and phraseology which they will easily understand. Because of that I propose to support the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on behalf of the Opposition. 
From time to time we hear the argument that the withdrawal of cigarette advertising will not have an effect. We have had indications of this from other countries where the advertising of cigarettes has been banned and we have been told that there has been no indication that the ban has been effective. Anybody who understands advertising or publicity will appreciate that it takes some time for advertising to affect the usage of a product but that also it takes some time to effect a stoppage. I believe that a ban on the advertising of a product such as cigarettes must have some effect in the long run. It amazes me to hear people say that increased advertising or the cessation of advertising will have no effect. This argument implies that cigarette manufacturers are just wasting their money by advertising their product. 
 No, I am not suggesting that it has been said in the Parliament, but from time to time is has been said by people. The purpose of advertising a product is to sell more of that product. It is a new line of thinking that advertising does not increase sales. I am convinced that over the years people have become more aware of advertising and that cigarette advertisements have created in the minds of people a desire to smoke. The manner in which some of these beautiful advertisements are presented has created in the minds of many people, especially young people, at which age most people begin smoking, the impression that smoking is a prestige symbol or that one achieves some status from smoking. I remember that as a young chap people tried to encourage me to smoke by saying: If you do not smoke you will never be a man - you will be something odd', or by making remarks of that kind. Advertising does implant in the minds of young people the idea that smoking is a status symbol. 
Just as I am convinced that advertising will encourage people to smoke, I am satisfied that a stoppage of cigarette advertising over a long period will have a beneficial effect. There is no question that we have clear evidence to show that smoking is a very dangerous habit. Whatever we can do to stop people smoking will be of great advantage to their general health. People who smoke like to think that they will never suffer from it. More than once I have talked to people about smoking and have heard them say: 'When my time comes I will be waiting and there will be no worry about it.' They are brave words when a person is in good health, but when those people have realised what has happened to them as a result of smoking they have been very miserable. I believe that if we in this Parliament can do anything to reduce smoking or to stop people from smoking we will be doing something of a worthwhile nature so far as their health is concerned. Although I was not in the chamber at the time, I understand that  Senator Georges  said that there were other things, such as alcohol, which presented a much greater risk. I agree with him. It is my view that parliaments have not faced up to their responsibilities in respect of many things which are used freely by people. So very often they are used as a status symbol. We know that when people go to parties they believe that they must do this, that or the other or feel out of it, but people should be made to realise that they must show strength. The less that we peddle various products by creating in people's minds a need to smoke or drink alcohol the better it will be for the human race. 
I am not getting into biblical days or biblical ways. Our exPremier of Queensland has probably had more to do with these quotations than I have. I will leave that to him because probably he knows much more about that aspect. Looking at the Bill and the amendment of the Australian Labor Party I feel that probably something stronger should have been done in regard to stopping smoking. The amendment moved on behalf of the Labor Party fits in more to my way of thinking so far as the stopping of smoking is concerned. We should not do this in a weak way; if we do it we must do it in a strong way. To me the Opposition's amendment seems to tackle the need in a much stronger way than we on the Government side are tackling it. In these circumstances I approve very strongly a move to stop the advertising of this product. I believe that although the banning of advertising may not have an immediate effect, over a period it will have some effect. So I support the pur- pose of the Bill and in particular I will support the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. 
I express my approval of the Bill which is before the Senate for the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. I feel that there is a real opportunity for this Institute to do very good work, particularly in relation to the Great Barrier Reef. The Great Barrier Reef is a feature which is not only of value to Queensland but also is possibly the greatest international tourist drawcard this country has. I think it is something about which we should know more and of which we should be very proud. There has been a lot of talk - which really does not stand close investigation - about the Great Barrier Reef. A lot is said about pollution, about drilling on the Reef and about how dangerous these things are. But what we have to keep in mind is: What is the Great Barrier Reef? It extends almost from the coast of Papua New Guinea to midway between Mackay and Rockhampton. The actual Great Barrier Reef terminates at Swain Reef which is midway between Mackay and Rockhampton. The tourist resort of Heron Island and the associated neighbouring islands are spoken of as the Great Barrier Reef. There is even the Great Barrier Reef research station there which receives Government subsidies. But that island and the adjacent islands belong to 2 separate and distinct groups known as the Bunker and Capricorn groups. 
My own idea of why it is called the Great Barrier Reef is that it is in barrier type formation. When we speak of it freely and easily as the Barrier Reef we are speaking of it wrongly. That is the type of reef. The reef which we are discussing is the Great Barrier Reef - the world's greatest coral reef: In Noumea and other places one can hear people speak of the barrier reef but they mean the barrier-type reef which bounds their islands and their areas. Therefore, if we want to be specific we should refer to this reef of ours as the Great Barrier Reef. The Great Barrier Reef is comprised of 3 different types of islands. The first is what is known as the atoll. It is an island which is not completely covered by sand. It has a lagoon in the centre. To my knowledge there is only one along the whole length of the reef, and that is Lady Elliott Island. The second type of island is one where the sand has swirled around and eventually a solid mass of sand has been built up. Heron Island, and Green Island off Cairns, are what we call coral islands. Bushy Island off Mackay is a similar type of island. The third type is what is known as the mainland island, and this is mostly where the tourist resorts are. It is felt, because these islands are mostly mountainous, that at one time they were part of the mainland, that the mainland became submerged and that these are the mountain tops or hill tops protruding above the water. That is how they became elevated types of islands. 
The main part of the reef is a barrierlike structure further out again. Generally at high tide the main structure of the reef is covered over. The beauty of the reef is not always just on the top. With the lovely inlets of coral ravines and gorges, where the coral almost overlaps, and with the fish life it is a most entrancing place. If one waits for the tide to go off the main structure of the reef and one walks upon it it may be a bit disappointing because the live pieces of coral are just here and there. But there are lovely lagoons still remaining after the tide has gone out. Viewed from midway across and looking obliquely across it, the reef is like one of nature's glorious flower gardens with all the different coloured pieces of coral edging onto each other. The reef extends a very great distance across, perhaps 40 miles or more. There are rivulets or inlets running through quite a number of these structures. The main structure is not always one solid mass. If one stands on it one will find a scries of waves breaking over it here and there. That is because a number of reefs fit into each other to make up the whole barrierlike structure. 
I have been associated with the reef development for many years, lt is over 40 years since I first started to push for the development of the Great Barrier Reef as a tourist rendezvous for Australians and overseas people. In those days the tourist industry was laughed at and sneered at by many people. I helped to pioneer the development of the Great Barrier Reef as a tourist area. I am pleased to say that today the area I sponsored - the Whitsunday Islands and adjacent area - is the major tourist rendezvous of the Great Barrier Reef for Australian and overseas people. Whatever has been done to the present, we have really only scratched the surface compared with what the future holds for these areas. I would like to have seen this institute established a bit closer to those resort areas. Anyhow, it is being stationed in Queensland and I think it will serve a very great purpose. 
The matter of pollution of the area has been referred to. We must keep in mind how far the reef goes out. As the reef comes down the coast it goes further out to sea. Some people will say: lt is closer here and it is further out somewhere else, and where it is closer is the best place to go. That is not usually the case. Just as in life and in other things, the hardest things to attain are often the best. So if one has to go further sometimes, it might be better. The further the reef swings out from the coast the less it is affected by the silt, mud and pollution of the coast. Therefore, out hi those areas very often one finds the best types of coral. When I first went out to the main structure of the reef after having established the island resorts, I felt that there was something further that we could find. I did a survey trip out to Tern, Red Bill and Bushy Islands which are directly off Mackay. Of all the areas of coral reef that 1 had seen they easily stood out as the best. The magnificent lagoons are formed because the current stops the sand from completely filling in. Standing on the rocks of Tern Island and looking at the coral lagoons in that area I felt that its beauty was so wonderful that I would never forget it. As we went across from the flat bottomed dinghy at low tide we saw the spit of sand coming out, and acres and acres of beautifully coloured coral. This indicated to me very clearly that the further out one goes for corals the better they are. I have seen none that can compare with the ones I saw at Tern, Red Bill and Bushy Islands - particularly at Tern Island. 
Nature builds these marvellous things but nature also destroys. Some years later, after a very heavy fall of rain - we had 44 inches of rain in 3 days in Mackay - I took the late Director-General of the Queensland Government Tourist Bureau,  Mr Alf  Cole, a very fine personality who did much for the tourist industry, out to view this beautiful coral. But what had happened? Nature built this magnificent area of coral which was the best I had ever seen. When we went out it appeared just like a heap of stones. As nature had built so had nature destroyed. Because the tide was down for so many hours each day and because so much fresh water had fallen on the coral the reefs were destroyed completely. I have not had the opportunity to go out since, but I have spoken to a person who goes out in that area. He informed me recently that the coral had grown again and that it was, in his terms, better than ever. So nature does rebuild. 
We have had trouble with the crown of thorns starfish. In certain areas of the reef there has been devastation. One of my colleagues from Townsville -  Senator Maunsell  or  Senator Lawrie  - said that the reef further north has grown again. Probably the devastation by the crown of thorns starfish has passed for some time and the same rejuvenation has gone on in that area as has taken place at Tern, Red Bill and Bushy Islands. There again nature, through one of the forms of marine life which it has created, has destroyed its own natural beauty. As far as my area is concerned - the Whitsunday islands and the Cumberland group - so far the crown of thorns does not seem to be making any inroads. We do not know why plagues such as the crown of thorns and various others take place. It is possible that the Marine Science Institute will tell us the story behind it. As  Senator Georges  said, it could be a cycle that has taken place or it could be some special epidemic. I was interested to read that a plague of starfish has affected not only the Australian Great Barrier Reef but also other reefs near Fiji and places further north. It could be some epidemic in the life of the reef or it could be something else. Let us hope that these are the things that the Marine Science Institue will find out for us. If it is necessary and if any control can be exercised, the Institute should develop it. Whilst we might be upset about some development and some adverse action of nature in the form of destruction, we have to remember that nature not only builds and destroys but also rebuilds. 
In regard to pollution of the area, the better and more colourful reefs are mostly further out. We get very worried about certain possibilities. For instance, drilling for oil on the Reef has been talked about and there has been a great clamour about the great danger in it. But in many years of drilling there have been very few blowouts at sea. There was one at Santa Barbara and one somewhere else. These things can happen. But the greatest danger to the Great Barrier Reef from oil pollution is posed not by drilling on the Reef, should it take place, but by the tankers that ply up and down the channels of the Reef area. They go up and down those channels day in day out, week in week out, year in year out. If one of those tankers struck a rock it could do much more damage to the Reef than could the drilling for oil about which so many people are so greatly concerned. We have to keep in mind the relative risks and values of the different operations in which we engage. Despite the fears held about drilling for oil on the Reef, a far greater danger is posed by the ships plying up and down the passages, such as the Whitsunday Passage and the passages further north, where if a ship went on the rocks it could do a great deal of damage. Not so many years ago in the English Channel a ship ran aground and broke up, and as a consequence there was oil pollution on the beaches. The greatest danger of damage is posed by the size of tankers and the amount of oil they can carry. 
 Yes. We have to keep a balance in our minds between the risks and the gains. I have always been a very keen conservationist. In fact, long before people who are now talking about the preservation of the Reef began doing so, I was one of the people who talked to the Queensland Lands Department and helped in the agitation that took place for the preservation of the islands in order to make them national resorts. As a consequence, most of them now are national resorts. When certain people moved, I supported them in various ways. In my district of Mackay, through my own agitation the Eungella National Park - 120,000 acres of the most beautiful rain forest or tropical jungle that one can see - was set aside as a national park so that present and future generations might see the glorious beauty of that country. I do not decry people who are keen on conservation, because I am a preservationist myself. But we have to strike a balance between what we can extract for our use and what we can preserve for our use. If we do that, we will achieve some sense in the matter. 
The Great Barrier Reef is the greatest tourist attraction we have in Australia.  Senator Gair,  as a former Premier of Queensland, will know of my association with the Great Barrier Reef development over many years because he was in the Queensland Parliament for quite a long time when I was engaged in this work. I am very keen that we should do everything possible to find out everything - the whys and the wherefores - about the Great Barrier Reef, in relation to not only the coral but also the life in it and the possibilities for it. An institute such as this could very well give us the answer to the question: How should we go about keeping this wonderful heritage which we in Queensland, in particular, have and in which Australians generally can share? So, with those words, 1 commend the Bill now before the Senate and sincerely hope that the establishment of the Institute will bring to each and every one of us the fulfilment of the dearest hopes of those of us who have a true love of this country and the great assets we have, such as the Great Barrier Reef. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. I wish to make a statement. This amendment has been moved as an amendment to the Schedule. It has been ruled that the Senate cannot alter an agreement already made. This agreement has not been finalised but the heads of agreement have been agreed to between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. 
 Is leave granted? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were discussing proposed new sitting times for the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  objected to the extension of the hours. The Government had asked for an extension. I was very interested  to  hear the discussion which took place. I put this submission to the Government: In view of the fact that the Opposition does not want to sit these additional hours, would the Government consider the matter in a new light? I feel that, so far as the Government is concerned, there is nothing to be lost by the Parliament sitting for a longer period than is in mind at present. We are discussing the Budget in general and later we will be discussing the items which comprise the Budget. 
In my opinion the Budget has been a very good one. It is one which, I think, must appeal to the general public. To me a discussion of the various pieces of the legislation that the Government is bringing in cannot do anything but good for the Government. I feel that, by taking time in this matter, by letting people know just how good the various components of this Budget are, and by not rushing it through the Government must be advantaged. Also I feel it is evident that there is an upward trend in the Government's stocks. The trend might be even a bit stronger than has been indicated by certain manifestations of a public nature. To me once a trend reverses and begins to lift in the opposite direction, and the longer that trend continues, the better it will be for the Government. 
My own feeling is there is not any urgency to hold an election. The longer we take in getting to the election date the better it will be for the Government. Because of the good aspects of the Budget and because people are more satisfied in their minds about the situation in Australia a later election must all be to the benefit of the Government. It is interesting that the Opposition wants a longer time to debate these measures and thereby help the Government to lift its stocks with the people of Australia. 
I feel that the Government might well have a new look to its proposed arrangements in view of what has been put forward today because I do not think any advantage will accrue to the Government by rushing to the people. I think that the Government made a very wise decision in resolving not to have the elections before the Budget legislation is passed through both Houses of Parliament so that the people will get the benefit of the Budget proposals. Looking at this matter now, I cannot see anything but advantage to the Government in taking more time to deal with business and making the polling day later. In these circumstances I think that the Acting Leader of the Government might well give further thought to the opportunity the Leader of the Opposition is giving to the Government to improve its stocks. 
 Mr President,  I have to report that in considering the Bill in Committee,  Senator Keeffe  used the phrase: 'It would be politically immoral for the Minister'- 
Order! I just draw the honourable senator's attention to the Bill. I do not think that has any relationship whatsoever to the Bill. I ask him to confine himself to the Bill. 
 Senator Keeffe,  I ask you to withdraw those words. 
I believe my question is appropriately directed to  Senator Wright  as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister read of the terrible atrocities being inflicted upon the Pakistanis and Indians being ejected from Uganda, even to the extent that some are being shot and mutilated? Does not the Minister consider that this is racism of the worst order? Can he tell me what has happened to the great body of knockers of Australia who are always accusing Australia of racism, when this terrible display of racism is being demonstrated in Uganda? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question, following my previous one about Uganda. Does he remember, on the occasion of the visit of the South African football team to Australia last year, the very noisy demonstrations and protests made by so many socalled racists against that team coming to Australia? Has the Government received any protests from any of the individuals or organisations, which made such a grand display on that occasion, against the atrocities that Uganda is now committing in its extreme racist policy towards Indians and Pakistanis? 
I bring up the 41 st report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to Statutory Rules 1972 No. 127, amendment to the Military Financial Regulations. I ask honourable senators to give close scrutiny to the Committee's report because the Committee proposes to move for the disallowance of this regulation. I think it would be well for honourable senators to be versed in the procedure which the Committee adopted in this matter after long deliberation and consideration. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the 43rd report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a general report upon the activities of the Committee since its 38th report. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I understand that there is some possibility of the order of the day concerning the discussion of committee reports being restored to the notice paper in the new Parliament. I therefore move this motion to give the Senate in the next session its first opportunity for some time, other than on a motion for disallowance, to discuss the work of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I have had the honour to serve on this Committee as  Chairman  and am now in my 20th year of such service. I have been a member of the Committee for approximately 23 years and during that time many famous political identities have served on the Committee. I think this aspect may be discussed further when we return after the recess and election. 
I take the opportunity, at the end of this parliamentary session, of expressing my sincere appreciation to the present members of the Committee. Every member has worked conscientiously, thoroughly and keenly on this Committee. It is fitting to note that whilst the Committee is composed of members of the various parties in this chamber no-one has ever taken any political aspects into consideration during the examination of regulations and ordinances. I therefore pay tribute to the members of the Committee for the work which they have so conscientiously undertaken and also to the  Deputy Chairman, Senator Devitt,  who has played his part extremely well. I also express my appreciation of the work of our secretaries. Until recently  Mr Nicholls  was secretary of the Committee. He was most conscientious and was keen on the work. It is pleasing to note that his successor,  Mr Harry  Evans, also is a keen student of his work and is playing an important part. To both  Mr Nicholls  and  Mr Harry  Evans J express thanks for the fine work that each has done in assisting the Committee. I seek leave to continue my remarks when the debate is resumed. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Does the Minister for Civil Aviation not consider that the Japan, Hong Kong area offers a great opportunity to increase inward tourist traffic to this country? If so, could he inform the Senate whether any steps have yet been taken to secure cheap air fares for both single and return journeys between that area and Australia, as distinct from package tour fares? Also, are negotiations under way in regard to the provision of cheap package tour fares between that area and Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it not a fact that we recognise Bangladesh? Why do we recognise Bangladesh and not Taiwan? Is it not a fact that Bangladesh is a break-away area from Pakistan, just as the people of Taiwan recognise that they are a break-away area from China? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it correct that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  has expressed himself very strongly in favour of open government? If the answer is yes, I ask why the Prime Minister has not released to the Parliament and the public the contents of his protest to the  President  of the United States of America in connection with the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong by the United States Air Force. Will he now release the contents of his protest? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister express himself very strongly in favour of open Government; if so, why has the Prime Minister not released to the Parliament and the public the contents of the protest he made to the  President  of the United States of America in connection with the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong, North Vietnam, by the United States' Air Force. 
Will the Prime Minister now release the contents of the protest. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) As indicated by the Special Minister of State in answer to Question No. 56 (Hansard, page 193) there are limits of the kind of material which can be publicly released in the interests of open Government. I do not propose to make public the contents of the communication the honourable senator has mentioned. 
by leave- -I desire to express my very deep appreciation of the sentiments expressed by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy),  the Leader of my own party,  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair),  the Leader of the Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and all the other honourable senators who have spoken so kindly of me and my work. I take it as a very great honour that the Senate should pass this motion of appreciation, because in my long term in the Senate such a motion has not often been moved. I am deeply conscious of the tributes that have been paid. Many of the honourable senators who paid those tributes served with me on the Senate Standing 
Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. It is wonderful to know that they still retain for me the feeling that apparently they had when they were serving on that Committee. 
The great work that has been achieved by the Committee - I believe that it has achieved great work - has been due not to me alone. In a very great measure it has been due to the members who comprised the Committee during each Parliament. As I look around this chamber I see many honourable senators - many of them have spoken tonight - who served on the Committee. Many of them have taken up higher positions in this Parliament. In fact, as I look across the chamber to the Government side I think of 4 Ministers in the present Government who served on the Committee. I just cannot recall all the other Ministers who have served on the Committee. Several honourable senators who were Ministers in the previous Government served on the Committee. This goes to show that the quality of members who comprised that Committee was very high. 
One can recall many incidents that occurred over the years in which various senators played their part. I hold very dear in my heart and mind the great work which many of them contributed and the wonderful association that I have had with them. The honourable senators to whom I refer will know that I am thinking of them. Over the years various incidents took place which were high-water marks in the work of the Committee. When I first came to Canberra from north Queensland, which is so far removed from the Parliament, I found that I had been appointed as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. In my ignorance 1 said to the then Attorney-General,  Senator Spicer  - now Chief Justice Spicer - 'What on earth have they put me on this committee for? I though that I would be placed on a committee which dealt with the Library or other things in which I have been interested.' I well recall his saying to me: 1 am surprised to bear you speaking like that, Ian, because we thought we were paying you a compliment by putting you on that Committee.' With those words I began to think about it and then I became interested in the work of the Committee as one of its members. 
After I was elected as  Chairman  the late  Senator Rex  Pearson asked one of the gentlemen who helped to write the Constitution what were the actual aims of the Committee. He said that the Committee was a most important committee of the Parliament. 
Because of the remarks of  Senator Spicer  and others, I realised the importance of the Committee and I concentrated as much as possible on its work. Over the years I became intensely interested in it. Those honourable senators who had to fight with me earlier on that Committee will remember that the Government of the day, of which I was a supporter, almost always put up a resistance to our recommendations. Fortunately the Senate held firmly to the majority of our recommendations and so we were able to carry the day. Eventually it appeared to the Government that it was necessary to recognise that the Committee was doing parliamentary work and the Government gave way. With the loyalty of the Committee members we managed to establish in the minds of the Government and this Senate that the Committee was not a party political committee but a parliamentary one. 
I was delighted to hear so many honourable senators speaking about keeping the work of the Committee, above party politics. 1 was very glad to hear Government senators speaking along those lines. Having spoken to the Attorney-General, the  Chairman  of the Committee and some of the other members, I am quite satisfied that the Committee as at present comprised has great ability and that its members will continue on the very high plane on which the Committee has operated in the past on a non-party basis. 

 Senator Murphy recalled as a matter of great pride in the Committee's work that only a year or so ago the British House of Commons Committee wrote to us and asked us to set up a complete charter of the type of work which it should carry out. For the mother of all Parliaments to make such a request was a real compliment because most other parliaments write to the British Parliament for advice. I got my Committee together and we framed what we thought was a very comprehensive policy for that Committee to pursue. It was pleasing to note that the Secretary of the British House of Commons Committee reported that that Committee had decided to accept our recommendations. That was a very fine tribute to our Committee which, I understand, is considered in parliamentary circles outside this country to be one of very great value. 
I accept and appreciate very greatly the wonderful sentiments which have been expressed here tonight and which have touched me deeply. I accept those sentiments and the vote of appreciation of the Senate as a great honour, but in doing so it is very clear in my heart and mind that a great number of honourable senators assisted me by the wonderful work they have done. Some of them, particularly those with legal knowledge, have been very valuable members indeed. I sincerely hope that these tributes paid tonight will establish in the minds of honourable senators more than ever the necessity for this Committee to carry on as it has done, at least in recent years, on a non-party basis as a truly parliamentary committee. I thank you,  Mr Deputy President, Senator Murphy,  the Leader of my own Party, the Leaders of the other parties and honourable senators generally. I am very deeply conscious of this great honour and I most sincerely appreciate it. 
I want to say a few words on this matter. First of all, I feel that the speed with which this Bill is being passed will develop in the minds of the public the idea that we are able to put through measures dealing with our salaries, allowances and so on at a remarkable speed. This Bill was passed through the House of Representatives yesterday and it is before the 
Senate today. In my experience in the Senate I have not seen anything quite like the speed with which this Bill is being galloped through the Senate. I feel that we should have been given more time to have a look at this measure in order to think about it. I would like to remark on a couple of aspects of the Bill.  Senator Wright  has dealt with it very fully. He suggested that an outside body should fix the salaries and allowances of this Parliament, which means that they would be arrived at decisively. I quite agree with his proposition. Parliament, having fought in relation to the right of certain members of the Public Service to fix their salaries, should always retain within itself certain powers in relation to its own affairs. 
The other matter I wish to raise concerns committee fees. I take the view that when we attend a committee hearing here in Canberra we should not receive a committee fee. We receive $22 a day as Canberra allowance. We are paid a salary and an electorate allowance for the whole of the year. Therefore I cannot see why we should receive an extra committee fee when we attend a committee hearing in Canberra. I think it is wrong. While we are in Canberra our salary and allowances should cover not only our parliamentary work but also our committee work. Therefore I think it is overspreading the jam if we receive a committee fee on top of the salary, electorate allowance and Canberra allowance. 
I have served on the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances for 23 years. Until the present time the members of that Committee have not received a committee allowance. As evidenced by the commendation given a few days ago by the Senate, I believe, very sincerely and very warmly the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has done a remarkably good job in an honorary capacity. The senators who were members of the Committee worked in the interests of this Parliament and this country. I want to make clear that I am concerned about those 2 aspects of the Bill. 
I join in this debate because of the statement made yesterday by  Senator Greenwood  and the terms of the amendment moved by the Opposition. Certain charges have been made by the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  against the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  about Croatian terrorism. Yesterday a statement was made on the subject by  Senator Greenwood  which I thought was an excellent piece of work and which, in my opinion, vindicated him completely insofar as the handling of his former duties as AttorneyGeneral in relation to the matter which we are now debating is concerned. 
I have been associated with  Senator Greenwood  since he first became a member of this chamber. I have worked with him on a committee and so on. I think he is one of the most honourable, honest and trustworthy men that anyone could ever meet. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  carried out his duties as Attorney-General in a most conscientious way and gave of his very best to that portfolio. The portfolio of Attorney-General is one which is held in the very highest regard by the people of Australia. I think it is considered by most people to be a portfolio which is occupied by a person who is of the highest probity. Because of that, I think that we must consider very carefully what we are doing before we denigrate people who occupy such a position. 
I feel that  Senator Greenwood  did an excellent job during the period in which he carried out the duties of that portfolio. I know that from time to time questions were asked of him in regard to Croatian and Yugoslav activities. I believe that the answers he gave to those questions were in accordance with the information he provided in his statement yesterday. It is easy to assume something but often it is difficult to prove it. Many people talk about what the Croatians and Yugoslavs are doing in this country. The difficulty to get sufficient evidence to prove that they are doing wrong. I feel that the replies  Senator Greenwood  gave to questions asked of him on this subject were in accordance with the information he had at his disposal. 1 think that the statement he made yesterday exonerated him completely from any blame in this direction. As I said at the outset, there is no man to whom I would attribute honesty of purpose more than I would to  Senator Greenwood. 
We have reached the stage today where we are considering  Senator Greenwood's  reply to the accusations made against him by the Attorney-General. I think that, so far as the Senate is concerned, the amendment which was moved by the Opposition in relation to this matter should have more strongly emphasised the confidence of the Senate in the honesty, purpose and administration of  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General. I say that because it was necessary for him to make a statement to vindicate himself. I think that the Opposition, in its amendment, may have been wiser to have moved more directly in regard to standing right behind him in what he did in the portfolio of AttorneyGeneral. The Opposition has, however, chosen to work along different lines and has moved an amendment which states that the present Attorney-General does not deserve the confidence of the Senate. 
After giving further consideration to this matter I have decided that this is a procedure which may pose some difficulties for the Senate. It is a type of motion that has not been passed in this chamber before. I know that the present Government, when in opposition, made several attempts to do so, but from what I can gather - I have some conversations with an authority on the subject and studied it - it seems that such a vote of no confidence is possibly not the right way for the Senate to record its disapproval. I would much prefer to have seen an amendment which sought to show not the Senate's disapproval of the statement by the present Attorney-General but its strong backing of the work done by  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General. As I said before, the people who occupy this position of AttorneyGeneral generally are accepted to be people of very real worth, of honesty and character. The present occupant of that position is  Senator Lionel  Murphy. He, like the former occupant, is a Queen's Counsel. I believe that both of these honourable senators are very well regarded in the legal world in their respective States. Of course, it is a very serious thing for us to have to vote on a motion of want of confidence in the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  In his capacity as Attorney-General he made certain moves in relation to the trouble between the Croatians and the Yugoslavs. He made searches and did things of that nature which probably were not in the usual run of the duties of an Attorney-General. When we read about it in the newspapers I think it probably took away the breath of most of us. 
My own opinion is that  Senator Murphy  was given the wrong lead. He probably was led by someone who said that certain terrible things were taking place and, as a consequence, pursued that lead. I believe, from the information that has been presented to the Senate, that  Senator Murphy  did not find what he hoped to find. It may be fair to say that he made his search, although he failed to find what we believe he may have been looking for, with an honesty of purpose. I have known  Senator Murphy  since he first came to this chamber. I have had quite a reasonable association with him. Like the former occupant of the position of Attorney-General, I believe that no-one has a higher regard for the standards of the Parliament than  Senator Murphy  has. He has always been an upholder of the rights of the Senate and has aimed at raising the Senate to a higher standard during the time that he has been here. Knowing his aims and desires, I could not believe that he would carry out such work with the idea of denigrating in any shape or form this Parliament or its various activities. In those circumstances, I do not think it is fair for us to assume that his actions were other than of an honest character. In view of what has transpired, people may think that this sort of thing is easy to say. But let us look over our own work as public men. Sometimes someone will come to us because they want something straightened out. When that person tells his story we probably get a little upset or a bit worked up because there appears to be some very real injustice being done. But when we investigate the matter we find that the person who has come to us has misjudged the situation and not told the story correctly. I am sure that each and every one of us has had that experience. I believe that possibly  Senator Murphy  has found in this case that the lead he was given was a wrong one. 
Now we have the situation that action of a very drastic nature is being taken in this respect. I am concerned just where it will take the Senate if the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  is carried. What will happen if the other House decides to pass a motion expressing confidence in the Attorney-General? If that occurs it will probably put this chamber in a very difficult position. In those circumstances I feel that this matter could probably be given much deeper consideration. I understand that at one stage it was proposed to adjourn the debate on this matter until next week. If that had occurred, possibly when we retired from this place for the weekend our temperament may have cooled so that it was not as warm as it is in this chamber at the moment, and we may then have thought along different lines. However, the decision now has been made to proceed with the debate. 
Both the present Attorney-General and the former Attorney-General used very strong words and made strong accusations. But if we are honest we will realise that very often we say things in the heat of the moment in our political fighting which we would not say in cooler times. I cannot help feeling that the former Attorney-General is of the highest quality in respect of honesty, purpose and administration. I feel also that the present Attorney-General is a man who has a determination to carry out his work in the best way and to uphold the rights of the Parliament by honest endeavour. It is unfortunate that this incident ever happened. I think it was a mistake. I think as time passes many people will regret that the steps which were taken were taken. 
I make these remarks along these lines as a simple layman. I know that we have in the Senate quite a number of legal men of outstanding ability and quality who probably look at things in a different way from me. But with my simple way of thinking, that is the way in which I see the situation. Before things are finalised I hope that honourable senators might acquire cooler feelings in regard to this matter. No-one would want to denigrate the position of Attorney-General or this Parliament. When all is said and done not only the Attorney-General but also the Government of the country is being castigated if criticism is to be made. I hope that the Senate will take into consideration when voting on this matter the respect in which the Senate is held by the other chamber and the people generally. 
I join in supporting the motion of condolence to the family of the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden which has been moved by the Leader of the Government in . the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  Usually I leave it to the leader of my party to express condolences, but on this occasion I believe that I. should say something because I think I can fairly claim to have known the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden longer than anybody in this chamber or the House of Representatives. 1 remember as a boy at the great age of 12 years and 10 months setting out to apply foi a job in a solicitor's office. Arthur Fadden recommended me to the solicitor and 1 received the position. I remember the kindly actions and deeds of Arthur Fadden in those far off days. I remember him when he served as a clerk in the Council of the Town of Mackay, which later became the City of Mackay. He became the Town  Clerk  of Mackay. 
As was pointed out by  Senator Gair,  Arthur Fadden also became a public accountant. I remember his brilliant achievements in his accountancy examinations. It was from there that he decided to step forth into the accountancy world. He moved from Mackay to Townsville and established a very successful accountancy practice. In his early days before he came to this Parliament he was very colourful. As has been mentioned, he lived and was educated in the little town of Walkerston which is about 9 miles from the City of Mackay of which, as I have said, he became the Town  Clerk.  As  Senator Gair  said, whenever  Sir Arthur  Fadden visited Walkerston he would point to the State school and say that it was the 'Walkerston University' where he was educated. Some of his great fun and jokes emanated from those days. 

 Sir Arthur Fadden used to speak of his activities in amateur theatre, such as the 'Nigger Minstrels' show. I recall in later days his mentioning that one of the people in the Nigger Minstrels show was none other than George Wallace senior who, honourable senators might remember, became Australia's No. 1 comedian.  Sir Arthur  Fadden was a creator of humour himself. I remember him telling a story about something that happened when George Wallace was performing on the stage at the height of his career.  Sir Arthur  went behind the stage to see George Wallace and said to him: 'Well, George, you have come a long way since those 'Nigger Minstrels' days. You have made a great success. You have done very well'. George said: 'Yes, I have, Artie. How have you done?' He said: Blimey George, I am only the Prime Minister of Australia'. Apparently George did not realise what public activities were going on. 
Very often people who tell stories are known as humourists.  Sir Athur  Fadden did not just tell stories; he created them. He had that natural sense of humour and fun. It was very funny to hear of some of the pranks which he played on the Mayor of Mackay when he was Town  Clerk.  He had that sense of humour which made everyone love him. But I think that what we in this Parliament must remember is that  Sir Arthur  Fadden had a very fine public spirit and he achieved great success in his public life. He gave devotion to his parliamentary career over many years. As was pointed out by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I think the records will show that his achievements in his parliamentary career are the true memorial of  Sir Arthur  Fadden. He is famed in the various areas in which he served in this Parliament. 
To me probably the characteristic which stands out most in my mind is that  Sir Arthur  Fadden was a warm and human person. He was a simple person and because of his simplicity he understood the simple problems of people. It made him more human and he adopted a warm and human approach. He was ever ready and willing to help to encourage and to do what he could for anyone. He was a colourful personality in private life and in public life. I believe that his name will be remembered long after the names of many of us are forgotten. I am sure that not only some members of the other place but also some honourable senators including  Senator Wright  who has been here the same length of time as I have, will remember that when  Sir Arthur  Fadden left, a small function was held for him in our' Government party room. Everyone was deeply touched by the little farewell we held because of our love and affection for Arthur Fadden. I believe that he touched our hearts and minds more than many other people who have passed through this Parliament. On this occasion we remember the great public man that he was. He was a wonderfully warm human being. He was, as  Senator Gair  so ably mentioned, a wonderful family man. Lady Fadden was also a Mackay girl. I extend to her and to her family my warmest sympathy. I believe that as the years roll by Artie Fadden will be remembered in this place and in the minds of all Australians who knew him. As the one in this Parliament who knew him for the longest period I feel that I can offer this tribute today. He passed away while I was overseas during the Easter recess. With his passing we have lost a great public personality. I have also lost a very warm friend. 
 I desire to support  Senator Marriott  in the sentiments which he has expressed. It is a well known fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is a hater of the Senate. There is no question but that the purpose behind his actions is to degrade the Senate as much as possible. 
There is no question about it; 1 know. I have talked to him at times. I know what he feels about the Senate and about honourable senators. He is out at all times to degrade this Senate. I think the sentiments expressed by  Senator Marriott  are worthy of deep consideration by honourable senators. But I think the Opposition is weak and spineless to accept this motion. If the Opposition is going to be a real Opposition it should get a bit of a backbone into it and fight properly. It should be standing up for the rights of the Senate in this case. 
The situation is that the Government does not have a majority in the Senate. On every occasion when we throw something back to the other place with which we do not agree, and when the other place sends it back here a second time in a different form, are we going to give way? If we are going to be spineless like this we do not deserve to be a government. 1 say that quite sincerely because, as an Opposition, we should be standing up and fighting. I have been in the Senate almost 23 years. 1 have seen the Senate grow considerably in stature and importance over the years. Today in the eyes of the people of this country the Senate stands very well. I have had a Government supporter in another place tell me that when he moved amongst the people talking about salary increases for parliamentarians, the people said: 'What do you blokes want a rise for? We do not mind those Senate blokes getting a rise because they work. But we do not want to give you blokes in the other place a rise'. That is the simple jargon that some people use. 
As we travel around the country today, it can be seen that the Senate has great credit in the eyes of the people. It was only within the last year or so that on 3 occasions in debates in another place, honourable members were asking: 'Why cannot we do this or that? The Senate does it. The Senate is the House. We are only a bunch of so and sos'. Now when an issue is before us on which we should stand up to the test we should do so. If we fight against a proposal and send it back to the other place, when it is returned to the Senate we should still adopt the same attitude and take the consequences. If the people want a double dissolution of the Parliament, let us have a double dissolution. When we fight such an election, we would fight it on our grounds and not on the defensive. We should select our own grounds. I would be happy to fight such an election on the right issue. I am surprised at the Opposition giving way on a matter like this. I support very strongly the sentiments expressed by  Senator Marriott.  I say this to the Opposition: For Heavens sake get a bit of spine into you. 
We have listened to a very fine oration by  Senator Wright  in connection with capital punishment. I thought that he covered the subject in an excellent manner giving very sound reasoning for the retention of capital punishment. I know that we hear a lot of namby-pamby sentiment on a subject such as this. 
Yes, we do. It is nambypamby sentiment. We hear this sort of talk: You may not take a life'. What about the life the murderer takes? Is that of no consequence? Then we hear the argument that capital punishment is not a deterrent. That, in my opinion, is not the real basis of capital punishment. So far as I am concerned, if a person kills others the most important thing is his elimination. We live in a society of human beings and we are all expected to act and live in a reasonably decent fashion. If certain people cannot behave as human beings and if they overstep the mark to such an extent that the lives of others are lost because of their actions, then the thing to do is get rid of them. When I say such things, I recall the practices of tribal people. What did they do? It was a case of an eye for an eye, a tOOth for a tooth, a life for a life. Those are the natural instincts of people who are not carried away by this sickly sentiment. 
I am always amazed at the way some people lean towards the guilty person. They do not show the same sentiment towards those whose lives have been lost. As far as I am concerned, people who commit murder deserve no consideration whatever. Sentimental trash is handed out to us, such as: 'This person probably did those things because he was sick. Corrective measures can be applied. If you would only give him a better status in life he would not act in this way'. What is the evidence that we can see? We see the repetition of crimes by people who are let. off the hook by soft judges. One often sees that somebody has been sentenced to life imprisonment for 20 years, or some such term, and then after 4 or 5 years he is released on parole. This is utter nonsense. For display, such people arc put in prison for a long period of their lives, but release on parole means that they serve a much lesser period. 
What is the penalty of imprisonment today? People who have been in gaol have said that it is like living in a very nice motel; they are pandered to, they are catered for and all the rest of it. Gaol has been made so soft-bedded for them that imprisonment today has not the terror it had in days gone by. That is the sort of tripe we are fed about those who kill others. So far as the ease of correcting these people is concerned, we are told that we should let them off and they will not do it again. Some years ago a man whose name, I think, was Lawson raped 4 models in a park near Sydney. Of course, he was later released on parole; he was reformed. What happened? A few years later he got into a school and, I think, he killed a little girl and wounded a school teacher. Yes, he was on parole; of course, he had been in gaol and it was said that he would be a good boy. But what about the poor little girl who was killed and the school teacher who was wounded? This man was imprisoned again. Certain sentimental people go into the gaols to entertain prisoners. A young lady in a group which was entertaining Lawson and others was attacked by Lawson during the entertainment. She was saved by Lawson's fellow prisoners who restrained him. What utter nonsense some people talk. Am I to believe that a man such as Lawson is fit to move among human beings? Of course he is not. 
As for the reformation of such people, one can quote the celebrated case of Darcy Dugan in Sydney, a man guilty of various crimes. Ultimately he was released from prison and people of some church organisation got hold of him. He was said to be such a good fellow, that he had accepted the Christian faith and was going about doing good among people. But suddenly it was discovered that under the cover of this reformation Dugan was committing crimes; so eventually he was gaoled again. We see such incidents time after time. Yet we hear certain people talking this weak, namby-pamby stuff about these poor fellows who are sick in mind'. Only the other day I read about a chap in the United States who killed his mother and cut her into pieces and also killed about 6 other people. Does anybody think he is the sort of person who should be running about the country after a term of imprisonment? Does anybody think that such a person is likely to say when he comes out that he will not to it again? Such examples come before us time after time. But, of course, we hear from sentimental people who refuse to see the realities of life. What do we find in countries in which capital punishment has been abolished? There are indications that crime is increasing and there is a demand for the restoration of capital punishment. The  President  of the United States has called for the restoration of capital punishment and in the United Kingdom, although the parliamentarians once again squibbed it as they so often do on issues they are afraid of - many of them are weak when it comes to grasping that nettle firmly - there is a rising demand for the restoration of capital punishment. I believe, as  Senator Wright  has rightly pointed out, that we have to be strong and that if we throw away the strength that we have for the control of such people we will be a very foolish nation indeed. It is a recognised fact that, unless authority is strong, weakness permits the development of attitudes and movements that would not otherwise come about. If we are not strong in dealing with this type of person, then naturally, because of that weakness, more and more people will go on a rampage of killing others. 
To give a simple example of how authority can stand up, I recall that in Toowoomba some years ago a magistrate who convicted people of driving under the influence of liquor did not impose only a fine of $20, as many of our weak magistrates do, but put them in clink for a month. As a result, the traffic situation in Toowoomba became almost a perfect example for the rest of the State of Queensland. That magistrate eventually retired, and when he stood for election to the city council his vote was always near the top of the poll. That shows that the people like public men to be strong on matters on which they should be strong. 1 believe that that man evidenced in that simple way that authority gets results. Therefore it can get results when people do not conform to the decent standards of this society. 
When speaking on this issue in this chamber some time ago I said that I believed that probably the abhorrence many people have of capital punishment arises from the old. outdated method by which we finish off murderers: They are put on a platform, it falls away and they are hanged. We ought to execute them in a more modern and more simple way. F believe that this would find favour with people much more than the old. out-of-date method which includes a parade for about a week, all sorts of religious services and so on, and then the hanging. My view is that in these modern times the more effective and humane way of execution would be to give them a needle and so send them off. To my way of thinking that is all that the people who commit these hideous crimes deserve. They should be eliminated from our society because they will be a menace if they get out into it again. They are capable of repeating their crimes. 
As 1 have said before, if some of the parliamentarians in this chamber were to experience the situation where their own families were being seriously threatened by a released prisoner of. this type they would be the first to call out for the restoration of capital punishment. I have said before, and I say in conclusion, that there must always be a strong authority to make sure that people live as decent human beings. If people are not prepared to live in that way, it is not a matter of a deterrent; it is a matter of their elimination. The one thing they deserve is to be eliminated. I believe that there should be no fear or worry about taking the life of an individual who had no worries about ending perhaps not just one life but several lives. 1 am strongly in favour of the retention of capital punishment. 
I am not one who normally speaks in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, but I feel that there is occasion to speak tonight. For some little while the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been making it part of his publicity program to downgrade the Senate and to speak of it as a chamber which is holding up his legislation, destroying it and so on. The true fact is that, until today no legislation of a worthwhile nature or of an important character has been rejected by this chamber. 
1 said 'until today'. So, I think it is. fair to presume that the Prime Minister is trying to create an atmosphere of his being frustrated by this chamber, so much so that in Melbourne in connection with the State election campaign he has used some very despicable words to describe honourable senators. He spoke of Liberal Party senators in these terms: 'This rabble, this mish mash of vested interests, this motley crew of incompetents still believe themselves to be our natural heaven born rulers'. I think that a statement such as that indicates the vanity and the arrogance of the man. There is no question about it: it is because of this arrogance and conceit that he is making statements such as that. It is quite evident from what is taking place in another place that when questions are asked he treats the Parliament, through its members, with utter contempt. He treats the people who ask these questions in the most contemptible manner. In my opinion, this is an affront to the institution of Parliament. 
During the election campaign  Mr Whitlam  spoke about open government. There has never been a more closed government than that which is operating at present. However, the conceit and arrogance of the man are such that in Victoria he said that he hoped that a strong Labor vote in Victoria on Saturday would give Opposition senators the warning they need. 
So say all of us? If a strong Liberal-Country Party-Democratic Labor Party vote is recorded, I take it that he will recognise that the people agree with the Senate. 
 The Minister cannot have it both ways. We will see on Saturday night when the results start coming in. From the stories that are coming in, he might well have to consider that aspect. The Senate was established by the Constitution and it has to serve certain functions. It was deliberately planned that half the number of senators would be elected each 3 years. The purpose of that was that while the political complexion of the other House might change completely this chamber would have a carry-over from the previous election of senators so there would not be a sudden change and there would be a continuity of thought. Apparently  Mr Whitlam  does not like this. I say this without hesitation: lt is well known that he is a hater of the Senate. If he had his way, he would do everything possible to deprive it of its power and even to get rid of it. 
 If that is done, it will show more clearly to the public the arrogance of the leader of the present Government. 
 Senator Devitt,  1 was replying to the interjection. Senators are elected by the people of Australia, the same as the Prime Minister and members of tha House of Representatives are elected. They are elected by the popular vote - by the adult franchise - of the Common wealth. Therefore the Senate has a right to express its views on legislation which comes before  Lt.  I am one of those who believe that if we do not agree with legislation it is our duty to act accordingly. I will not be frightened by the Prime Minister or anybody else. 1 think this chamber has a duty to perform. 
The Prime Minister believes that it is all right for him to storm about the country ranting about the Senate. But we have our rights and our duties. We have to carry them out. If we see something more clearly than possibly he does or his Government does, we, have a purpose to perform. I have never failed to carry out my parliamentary duty. I will continue to carry it out. Listen to how he described us. This shows the respect in which the Prime Minister holds all senators. 
He described Opposition senators as 'arrogant, fearful men'. He said: 
It is Incredible but true that this rabble, this mish mash of vested interests, factions, bitter old men and frustrated new ones, this motley crew of incompetents still believe themselves to be our natural heaven born rulers. 

 Mr Whitlam may have had more education than people such as myself, but I do not play second fiddle to him so far as my progress through the world, as I see it, is concerned. He might have the vanity, the conceit and the arrogance, but that does not make him a better parliamentarian. The arrogance and conceit which he is displaying will, I am sure, help to bring him down in the long run. 
What really counts with a man, whether he is the Prime Minister, a senator, a member of the House of Representatives or anything else, is the quality and the character of the man. I do not know that  Mr Whitlam  rates so very highly with everyone. It is well known that there have been deep divisions in his Party in regard to himself. It is known that there have been deep factions so far as he is concerned. There is also a strong feeling of disloyalty so far as he is concerned. 
It is talked about freely. It has a ring of truth about it because of the source from which it comes. It is said that he is prepared to stab his own Ministers if he wants to injure them. Take the case of the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  It is well known in this chamber and everywhere else that the story concerning the interview that the Attorney-General had with the Yugoslav Ambassador was leaked from the Prime Minister's office. That leak would not have occurred if the Prime Minister had known nothing about the matter. I am quite convinced that the Prime Minister knew of the interview before he left Australia. (Government senators interjecting) - 
It is not filth. I am not being filthy. Let me say that it is well known that the Prime Minister has a tie in with Rupert Murdoch of the Murdoch Press. 
He has; and members of his Party know it. So much so that a pressman of the Murdoch Press has been seconded to and is more or less associated with his office for the purpose of obtaining informa tion about one of his Ministers, and that is the Attorney-General. This man is going round trying to find out about the private life of the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  and about his business dealings. 
I challenge  Senator McAuliffe  to deny this. 
I reject the appeal,  Mr President.  As I have already pointed out, the Prime Minister has gone out of his way to downgrade honourable senators. I have said that a member of the Murdoch Press is trying to obtain information about the AttorneyGeneral's private life and his business dealings. I know of a person in Sydney who was taken out by this Murdoch pressman. The purpose of it was to investigate  Senator Murphy.  The tie up is quite apparent. 
This is being done by people associated with the Prime Minister - the Murdoch Press. This is the same Prime Minister who has criticised honourable senators. You can see the tie up,  Mr President.  Time after time we see the Murdoch Press calling for  Senator Murphy's  resignation and calling upon the Prime Minister to dismiss him. In the very same issue we see praise for the Prime Minister. It is well known that Murdoch and Whitlam are the closest of friends and that when the Prime Minister went to England recently Rupert Murdoch was one of the people upon whom he called. 
That is true. This is the tie up. Everybody in this chamber knows that the Prime Minister would cut  Senator Murphy's  throat politically tomorrow if he could. That is the type of man who gets up and publicly criticises honourable senators.  His  back stabbing characteristics towards his own Minister indicate what sort of a Prime Minister he is. The association between the Prime Minister and the Murdoch Press is quite clear.  Senator McAuliffe,  who is continually interjecting, knows that his Party is very disturbed about it. We have heard a great deal from the Government about owners equity and its belief in Australian ownership. But what about Rupert Murdoch with his newspapers and radio and television stations? Nobody could truly call him an Australian now. He is an expatriate Australian. He lives in England and that is where he spends most of his time. With his tie up with the Prime Minister and the media, he plays an important part in moulding the minds of the people of Australia politically, yet  does  not live in Australia. 
I wanted to show that the Prime Minister, who has been so keen on deriding some mem bers of this chamber, is himself not the type of person who is spotless in his judgment of others and that he can be guilty of stabbing his own Ministers in the back. A story is going around the city of Melbourne at present that there are Australian Security Intelligence Organisation men in  Dr Jim  Cairns's entourage in China, reporting every little thing that goes on. Of course, we know the feeling between Whitlam and  Dr Cairns.  We have seen little dribs and drabs in the newspapers about  Dr Cairns's  visit, and then denials. These sorts of things must come out from somewhere. Of course they come out from the Prime Minister's office and the Prime Minister can say that he has nothing to do with them. 
There is no doubt that the Prime Minister is the last person who should talk in the way that he has about honourable senators. In my view he would stab his own Ministers in the back in order to make sure that he did not have any rivals among them. It is not surprising that the types of men he attacks are those who could well be rivals to his position as Prime Minister. As I said originally, the Senate has a duty to carry out its functions in the way that it feels fit. I hope that the people of Victoria will show their good sense on Saturday and that the Prime Minister then will be prepared to admit that the people have shown the right judgment insofar as the Senate is concened. I think that he is mishmash and not us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
I express my amazement at the proposal which has been put before the Senate. As a result of the gag being applied, we now have an extremely limited time to debate the business of the Senate. 
 Senator Negus  would know; he is so widely experienced and so inconsistent in his independence. The gag was carried by the Australian Labor Party with the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Parry and an Independent senator,  Senator Negus.  As a result of this action, the Senate has been presented with a time-table for the consideration of very important legislation which is to be galloped through almost without thinking. Party politics may pervade the minds of some people. But those of us who are keen on democracy should realise that Parliament is the focal point of democracy. It is the right of parliamentarians to speak their mind on legislation which comes before them. 
People have their own estimation of the minds of other people. Some honourable senators use the fact that a Bill has been debated at length as an excuse for bringing in this type of time-table. I think that is an insult to the parliamentary institution and to the Senate in particular. I do not often take the time of the Senate in speaking. I believe that there are occasions when people have something to say on matters that are very close to their hearts, and if they want to speak about those matters they should have that right. 
The Bill which was talked about so much as taking such a long time to consider was the Grants Commission Bill. Some speakers may have wandered and some may have engaged in repitition. However,  Senator Wright,  for example, gave a sterling address on the BUI. Every honourable senator should realise that that Bill strikes at the very foundations of something that has been a principle of Australia since the institution of our Parliament. Australia has 3 divisions of government - Commonwealth, State and local. Local government has always been under the wing of the States. Many of us wanted to speak on the local government issue. I have had a longer service in local government than probably anybody else in either of the chambers of the Parliament. My local government service carried- 
 Mr President,  you allowed others to talk about it. 
I am referring to the fact that during my lifetime I have served 33 years in local government - 6 years as State President of the Queensland Local Government Association, 1 year as President of the Australian Council of- Local Government and 15 years as mayor of a city. I wanted to speak on that Bill, but I did not have the opportunity do so. If I had made a contribution to the debate, I hope that it would have been worth while. That Bill strikes at the very fundamentals of government rights. 
In the catalogue of Bills under guillotine, as was mentioned by other senators, is the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. To suggest a 3-hour debate for that Bill is just utter nonsense. As has been pointed out,  Mr Whitlam  said that it was of great importance; that it could be an issue for a double dissolution and so on. If that Bill is to be. considered in 3 hours, how many honourable senators will be able to speak on it? Do the movement of the gag by the Government and the action of those who supported it indicate that nobody in the Senate is interested in such a subject? 
Another Bill that is to be considered is very important to the existence of the Senate. I refer to the Bill which gives Senate representation to the Territories. Yet the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  proposes a one-hour debate on that Bill. It strikes at the very root of the existence of the Senate. It is of terrific importance to the Senate. This has been a States House ever since it began. Had it not been for the creation of this House, there would not have been agreement by the States to the formation of a Commonwealth government. Therefore, the whole Constitution is tied to this chamber. We are now presented with a Bill that seeks to destroy the very basis on which this House was created and has existed. Yet we are told that we may have only one hour to debate that Bill. 
The Leader of the Government said that we may be able to get an extension of time. How do we know that we will be able to get an extension? We cannot tell whether we will be, able to do so. The Government needs only to ask for a vote, and with the support of other honourable senators it can stop an extension being granted. I have never agreed with the system of parliamentary government in which a great number of Bills are considered urgently at the end of the session. I do not believe in prolonging things and 1 do not believe in just taking the party line. But I think that we should give reasonable attention to each of the Bills that come before us. 
Various things have been said. I heard an independent senator,  Senator Negus,  talk about this and that. All I can say is that he represents Western Australia, which is a large State as is my State of Queensland. He is one who should have been interested in the Bill which was just passed, because it will be of great importance to States such as Western Australia and Queensland. But apparently  Senator Negus  did not think so. He was prepared to support the gag, with the result that we did not have a decent opportunity to debate important legislation. This action of the Government is one of the worst things I have seen done in the Senate in my 23i years of service here. I think it is extremely bad that such important legislation should be given such little time for consideration. 
I believe that the Senate of Australia today stands higher in the estimation of the people of this country than probably it has at any time previously in its history. I believe too that it is fulfilling and carrying out the functions which it was intended to carry out much more truly than at any other time. As a consequence, wherever one goes today, the Senate is spoken of in the very highest terms. I feel that that achievement has not come from just one side; it has come from the part that senators on all sides have played over recent years. The Senate was established to protect the States. No compact would have been arrived at if the independence and sovereignty of the States were not recognised and preserved. 
Debate interrupted. 
In considering this matter and taking what might be regarded as a non-Party view, I do not agree with the reply of  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, to the remarks of  Senator Greenwood.  I know that  Senator Murphy  has a high regard for Parliament and particularly for the regulation making aspect of government. I do not agree that the original ordinance was introduced in a spirit of opposition to the Aborigines, of racism, or whatever other fancy terms are used. I do not mind admitting that I said that the former Government should have acted much more quickly in having the bunch of tents removed from the front of Parliament House. Those tents had the appellation Embassy' attached to them but, of course, this was utter nonsense. Let us be honest and factual about this matter. That blot in front of Parliament House was a disgrace to this national institution. It remained there for months. Another chap was hanging about outside Parliament House for some time. He was seeking more aid for an Asian country. This sort of conduct is not proper in front of the national Parliament of this country. 
The square in front of Parliament House was intended for beautification purposes. Anyone who is familiar with planning - I have been associated with planning for many years - knows that the square was designed for beautification purposes. There is nothing to stop people gathering in a temporary manner in that area for the purposes of a demonstration, but the setting up of a camp  -  a terrible looking thing it was - was a blot in front of Parliament House. What effect did that camp have on each individual senator as he came to Parliament House each day? Did it stir honourable senators to push for this or to oppose that? My impression was that it had no effect at all. I am trying to consider this matter from a non-Party angle. I think honourable senators know me well enough in this regard. My own feeling was that it was a welcome move when the Minister for the Interior introduced a regulation to debar such long sustained demonstrations or sit-ins. I cannot agree that a regulation that debars such things is bad, because the nation has gone to much trouble and expense to build an attractive city in Canberra and to provide pleasant aspects in front of the public buildings. 
When one talks of the rights of a few people one must also consider the rights of the great majority of the people. Do the great majority want camps and similar demonstrations in front of Parliament House? 
My assessment is that they do not. I know that it is usual for governments to claim that they have a mandate to do certain things. Yesterday  Senator Lillico  showed me a leader from the Launceston 'Examiner' which expressed views very much in line with my own thinking. I go around and talk to people and during the course of the last election campaign I questioned people on points contained in the policies put before them. It might amaze honourable senators to know that many people could not tell me one point contained in the respective policies, so all this nonsense we hear about mandates does not carry much weight. We must consider whether we, as decent minded Australians, wanting an attractive Parliament House with a pleasant frontage and set in an attractive city, want people to camp in that area for all manner of pretences or whether we want the area retained for the purpose for which it was originally intended, namely, as an attractive frontage to Parliament House. 
I do not consider that the original ordinance was aimed against Aborigines. It was aimed at anyone who camps there. If we do not have laws to prevent this sort of thing, could caravans be parked there? If so, why not make it a temporary caravan park? What would happen if everybody wanted to camp outside Parliament House? One has only to take this matter to the extreme to appreciate the foolishness of such a situation. I think the original regulation was good. I do not mind confessing that I was continually at  Mr Hunt,  then the Minister for the Interior, to do something about the camp. I think that the previous Government, of which I was a supporter, was weak in not acting months before it did. I was glad that ultimately it had the strength to do the right thing. I cannot support the Government's move to do away with the regulation which prevented such happenings. I suggest that if  Senator Murphy  were not Leader of the Government in the Senate his arguments might be similar to my own. 
As I said at the commencement of my speech, the Senate today stands higher in the estimation of the people of Australia than at any time in its history. I believe that the Senate is fulfilling what was expected of it when it was set up. It is now operating in the fullest conception of what the Senate should be. The Senate was established to protect the State* and no compact would have been arrived at if the independence and sovereignty of the States were not to be recognised and preserved. The Founding Fathers ensured that the constitutional rights of the States were maintained and protected by providing in the Constitution equality of representation of the original States on the basis that the colonies prior to 
Federation were equal constitutionally and politically. Section 7 of the Constitution provides: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each Stale, directly chosen by, the people of the State, voting, until the Parliament otherwise provides, as one electorate. 
But until the Parliament of the Commonwealth otherwise provides, the Parliament of the State of Queensland, if that State be an Original State, may make laws dividing the State into divisions and determining the number of senators to be chosen for each division, and is the absence of such provision the Slate shall ha saa electorate. 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides there shall be 6 senators for each Original Slate. The Parliament may make laws increasing or diminishing the number of senators for nach Slate,* but so that equal representation of the several Original States shall be maintained and that  bo  Original State shall have less than 6 senators. 
Tha senators shall be chosen for a term of 6 years, and the names of the senators chosen for each State shall be terrified by the Governor to the GovernorGeneral. 
The Constitution, in section 122, also provides that the Parliament may allow representation of Commonwealth territories 'in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit'. But was it intended that territories should be allowed full representation in the Senate? Certainly, under the proposed legislation, it is not suggested that any territory representatives in the Senate should be taken into account in determining the number of members of the House of Representatives. In that respect any such representatives are not to be considered senators. But such territory representatives in the Senate under this Bill are to have full voting rights and could as non-State representatives hold the balance of power in an institution set up to safeguard the interests of the States - a principle embodied in the Constitution without which Federation would not have been accomplished. Although provision was made in the Constitution for representation of territories in the Parliament, our Founding Fathers did not envisage that such representatives would have voting rights. In fact, concern was expressed that the provision did not preclude such representatives having the right to vote. Deakin, Brown, Barton and Braddon aro recorded in Convention Debates, Adelaide, 1897, as fellows: 

 Mr DEAKIN: I think my honourable friend  Sir Edward  Braddon somewhat mistakes the position. If the United States plan ls followed territorial delegates would simply be entitled te eater the House of Representative* amd apeak there, but would not be permitted to vote. They are only agents. The territories here would consist of parts of Australia in which there was merely a nominal population. From them persons might be privileged to enter the House of Representatives in order to state their wishes, but these persons could not take any other part in the proceedings. 

 Mr BARTON: They are provisionally governed by the Commonwealth. 

 Sir EDWARD BRADDON: Representation should carry with it the right to vole. 

 Mr DEAKIN: Under territorial representation if it follows the plan of the United States, as it probably would, territorial representatives would be entitled to peak in the House of Representatives, but not to vote. I think  Sir Edward  Braddon will see that his alarm is not well-grounded, and that whatever determination is come to in regard to the representation of territories must be settled by both Houses. The, Senate will have an equal voice wilh the House of Representatives in determining what representation is to be gives, when it is to be given, and how. 

 Mr BROWN: I hope that  Sir Edward  Braddon win not insist on this amendment. It appears te mc that we are again doing as we have been doing very frequently during the discussion of this Bill, namely, trying te put into the Constitution things which ought to be dealt with hereafter by the Commonwealth. II is perfectly plain that as regards any territory which may require to have representation in the Commonwealth, some special arrangement will have to be made such as that indicated by my honourable friend  Mr Deakin.  To put into this clause a condition that such territory can only be represented under the terms and conditions to which the complete States are admitted will, I apprehend, be contrary to what the Convention has in view. 

 Mr BARTON: ... It would be impossible for the Commonwealth ever to consent to the admission of territories which might be sparsely populated, and which would, according to the honourable member's proposal, be entitled to six members in the Senate. Territories or districts which are only ia a primitive state of development are intended to be dealt with by a clause of this sort. They are in a transition state, and they are governed by the Commonwealth until such time as the States have reached a condition which would entitle them to representation in the Senate. Bryce says: Besides these full members there are also eight territorial delegates, one from each of the territories, regions in the West enjoying a species of self-government, but not yet formed into States. These delegates sit and speak, but have no right to vote, being unrecognised by the Constitution. They are, in fact, merely persons to whom the House under a Statute admits to its floor and permits to address it. 
This Constitution is on a little more liberal basis than that in this respect: the Commonwealth in the case of the secession of a territory which is cumbersome, gives power to allow the representation of it in either House of Parliament under the terms which the Parliament thinks fit. Instead of the territories being governed in a way that only entitles them to be represented as delegates there is power to give them a certain degee of representation. It is quite as much as they can have the right to expect, and tab is a more liberal provision than is to be found m the American Constitution. 

 Sir EDWARD BRADDON: I should not object to the clause so strenuously as I hare done if it were clearly shown that representation in. this instance did not carry with it the voting power which we generally understand accompanies representation. A representative is as well as being a speaking machine, a voting one, and if  Mr Barton  will say in the Bill that this representative or these representatives are not to have votes, tthen  my alarm will be dispelled. This is the fact as regards the representation of colonies under the American Constitution, but we have nothing in the clause to show that it is to be the fact here also. 
But unlike our Founding Fathers, who were concerned to establish the Senate as the Federal part of the Parliament - 'the organ of the States, the visible representative of the continuity, independence, and reserved autonomy of the States, linking them together as integral parts of the Federal Union' - the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  leaves no doubt that, as one honourable member of another place expressed recently, he 'is hell-bent on completely abolishing the States themselves'. Of course, in the process and incidental thereto, he is attempting to destroy this institution which was established to protect the interests of the States. Protection of those interests should be the first and foremost duty and responsibility of each and every person in this chamber who calls himself a senator. 
The Bill is a political ruse to destroy the whole character of the Senate. It is an attempt to intrude non-State representatives into the Senate with terms of service the same as the terms of members of the House of Representatives, with elections to be held at the same time as general elections for the House of Representatives, and with any vacancies of such representatives being filled at an election as though it were a by-election for a vacancy in the House of Representatives. This scheme must be seen as the real threat that it is to the independence of the Senate. It is the thin edge of an insidious wedge being relentlessly employed by those bent on the wrecking of our federal union and the destruction of our sovereign States. The Prime Minister has recently made it quite plain that he wants no truck with any States. He believes in a unitary system and his actions recently indicate that he is out to attain that end, if given the chance, in as short a time as possible. If we allow this Bill to pass we will be sounding the death knell of the States and our federation. As well, we would be endorsing the present Government's plan to emasculate the Senate and destroy its status, independence and continuity. This Bill, as already mentioned, requires the proposed representatives to be taken to election at each House of Representatives election. Such a proposal would make destitute the system of proportional representation instituted by a former Labor Government for Senate elections, which system has provided in the Senate a true reflection of the political feeling in the States. We know full well Prime Minister Whitlam's burning desire to take half the Senate out at each House of Representatives election - or is it his intention to take all the Senate to election with the lower House and so completely destroy the Senate by making it a replica of the House of Representatives? It could be that such a move would suit the purposes of certain members of the Labor Party, which still retains on its platform its plank to abolish the Senate. Is it believed that altruistic considerations prompted the Government to initiate this legislation so as to enable the electorally discriminated against people of the Territories to be adequately represented in Parliament or could it be that the Government believes it may be able to gain control of the Senate with these nonState representatives? Should this happen, of course, there would be no barrier to increasing, by amending legislation, the number of representatives for the Territories to whatever number was desired and thereby kill the identity of the Senate as a State's House. 
This ruse is only one of many attempts to invade and violate the domain of rights reserved to the States. The first was the proposal to abolish appeals to the Privy Council. This was projected by the Prime Minister without any suggestion of consultation with the States. One would have thought that the criticism evoked by this proposal would have made the Government a little tentative in attempting any further inroads into State areas. But this was not so. There was no hesitation whatsoever by the Government in introducing the seas and submerged lands Bills, which have real constitutional significance to the States. Once again, no advice was given to and no consultation took place with the States. Although the States indicated that they would seek an advisory opinion of the Privy Council on the question of sovereignty over the territorial sea and continental shelf, the Government attempted to intimidate by threats of a double dissolution and to bludgeon these Bills through the Senate. 
The Grants Commission Bill is yet another measure which seems to fit into the pattern. Again it appears that the Government is encroaching en an area of responsibility, which should  rest  squarely on the States with Commonwealth financial assistance, in an endeavour te by-pass the State Governments and virtually make nonentities of the States. As each of these matters can seriously affect the rights of the States surely the democratic process demands that the States be consulted before any action is instituted. At a time when all the States, together with the Commonwealth, are in the process of holding a convention to look at all things pertaining to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, would anyone not believe that all these matters should have been submitted for consideration? If not, why is the convention being held and, at the rate the present Government is intruding on State rights and responsibilities, what matters will be left for the convention to consider? 
This Bill, by providing representation for Territories, could as effectively destroy the influence of the smaller States as it could accord more representation to larger States. This was an argument advanced in the United States of America when it was proposed in 1967 that the District of Columbia - the Seat of Government of the United States with a population of over 800,000 - be given representation in the United States Senate. The proposal was defeated, and in dissenting reports on the proposal before the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary it was stated: 
The people of the District of Columbia should have both a voice and vote in the Congress. 
However, it is neither prudent nor practical to treat the District as a State. It is not a State. It should not be. It should remain the Capital City of all America. 
So long as every State is like every other State, equality of suffrage is not destroyed by admitting a new State to the Union. But is the same true when a non-State is involved? 
The purpose of the proviso - no State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate - was to furnish a forum where States with smaller populations could yet exert influence. That purpose is defeated as effectively by according senatorial representation to a non-State as by according more representation to a larger State. 
Another view was as follows: 
The Senate of the United States is an assembly of States and it is the deep concern of many of my colleagues that representation in the Senate by political entities other than States presents so fundamental a change of concept as to destroy the present constitutional character of that body. It has even been suggested that if Washington, D.C., can obtain voting representation in the Senate, other large metropolitan centres in the country might seek a like voice. Fears of that eventuality can be allayed by the dear mandate of the Constitution. Every city other than Washington is within a State, and is already represented in the Senate. And no Stale may be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate without its consent. Consequently any amendment which would grant representation in the Senate to any large city, other than Washington, would enlarge the senatorial representation of a Slate and could not be accomplished with less than ratification by all the States.  the large majority of the residents of the District of Columbia are not native here but willingly left their States in order to live at the seat of Government, surrendering the advantages of direct representation for other advantages thought important to them. 
. it was no historical accident that the people who choose to reside in the congressional haven are without direct representation in Congress. 
I believe every member of the House must resolve the following question in his own mind before he votes on this proposal: On close votes in the House or the Senate where one or two votes can make the difference in extremely controversial issues, should the people who chose to reside in the National's Capital hold the balance of power? 
That applies to cities such as Canberra. Yet a further view was as follows: 
We should approach this task recognising that the fundamental principle guiding our deliberations should be the attainment, insofar as possible, of equality of political rights to all citizens. Anything less is inconsistent with our national heritage and should not be tolerated. 
It is at once apparent that the people of the District do not now possess equal status with other citizens. They are not represented, as a matter of right, in the Congress of the United States (although, as a practical matter, no group of Americans has a louder voice in Congress). An amendment to our Constitution is in order. We regret, however, that the resolution before the House goes beyond that necessary to achieve equality and in fact creates a special class of citizens accorded greater political rights than that possessed by other Americans. For that reason we must respectfully dissent from the majority views. 
We believe that the people of the District should be represented in the House of Representatives by such number of Members as their population justifies; and that the people of the District should not be represented in tie Senate. Perfect equality can be achieved in no other way. 
The Senate is not a forum where 'people' are represented. Senators are elected by the people of' each State to represent that State ia the national legislative body. The entire federal system is predicated upon this principle.  the Senate represents States, the House represents people. This distinction is the foundation  of our federal system - governments within a government, sovereignties within a sovereignty. This principle has served us too well to be eroded by an amendment such as that now  before  the House. 
That is the American situation. What was said in relation to the American situation in respect of the District of Columbia equally applies to the representation of Territories in the Australian Parliament. The Senate is the States House and should retain its unique character. Territories are not States and therefore should not be represented in the Senate. They can be adequately represented in the people's House, the House of Representatives, in proportion to the numbers of their population. The Australian Capital Territory is to have 2 members in the House of Representatives and this rs reasonable on a population basis. The Northern Territory has one member in the House of Representatives. As the population of these areas increases so too should the number of representatives in the House of Representatives be increased to the number the population warrants. 
Under section 122 of the Constitution, the Parliament may make laws for the government of its Territories and to assist it in its task a Legislative Council has been established in the Northern Territory and an Advisory Council in the Australian Capital Territory. Also, the Parliament for many years now has had a Joint Committee consisting of 4 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives to inquire into and report upon matters affecting the Australian Capital Territory. And in respect of the Northern Territory there is presently a proposal, already agreed to by the House of Representatives, on the Senate notice paper for the establishment of a committee on matters relating to that Territory. Surely there is no area of its size in Australia given more consideration in its development than the planned city of Canberra, the seat of Government of the Commonwealth, and I would venture to say that no other people in Australia have more influence on Government thinking than do those residing in the Australian Capita) Territory. I also believe that no population in Australia of the number in the Northern Territory is given more consideration by the Federal Parliament. 
If the people of these areas believe that they should have more say in their development this does not mean that they should have representation in the Senate. More rep resentation in the House of Representatives in accordance with their population and greater autonomy in their Councils would seem to be more like the answer. Surely it would not be suggested that other Territories, such as the many island Territories under the authority of the Commonwealth, should have representation in the Senate, but if this Bill is passed the way would be open for just that to happen. 
I do not believe that we should, for what I consider to be political purposes, destroy the whole identity, stature and ability of an institution which has functioned responsibly and well since proportional representation has been made the mode of electing senators. In recent years, through its Committee system and the calibre of its members, the Senate has been acclaimed throughout all sections of the community. Let us not destroy that image which we have built up. Let us throw out this Bill and retain this Senate intact as the institution which our founding fathers entrusted to us to safeguard State interests and to act responsibly as a House of Review. In the course of the State election campaign in Victoria recently, the Prime Minister asked the people of that State to vote Labor to indicate their opposition to the actions of the Senate. The result was an abounding one in favour of the Senate. I therefore oppose this Bill. 
I desire to support the arguments put forward by  Senator Byrne  in regard to his amendment. I also endorse the sentiments which he expressed. As a bachelor who has subscribed to this fund for 23  i  years I think it might be well and truly said that I have subscribed probably a fair sum of money. It amazes me that over the years so little consideration has been given to the single men and women who serve in the Parliament and who contribute to this scheme. I know that there has been a peculiar attitude in Canberra about single persons in Parliament. When I first came to this area single persons were not even allowed to bring a partner when they were invited to functions at which dancing took place in Kings Hall. It was suggested that the people organising the functions were afraid of the type of person that one might bring. Over the years we have managed to educate Canberra to do what any little civic authority would have done, that is, to give the right to bring a partner. When I asked who I would dance with I was told that I would dance with the other men's wives. This shows the warped view that has been taken in regard to single people in this Parliament. 
The points put forward by  Senator Byrne  had substantial logic behind them. My mother has passed on. If anything had happened to me when she was alive no one would have been more deserving of some compensation from a fund such as this to which I have contributed as a result of my service in this Parliament. My mother made a sacrifice in bringing up my sister and myself probably equal to the sacrifice made by anybody. Such persons are deserving of consideration. 
As  Senator Byrne  has said, single members of Parliament may have sisters who are dependent. This matter needs to be looked at from a human point of view. This position does not affect me to the extent that it may affect others. Younger single members of this Parliament may have an accident and lose their lives while in transit to or from this place. They may have mothers who are entirely dependent upon them.  Senator Byrne  mentioned 2 former female members of this place, although he was a bit afraid to give their names. They were Dame Dorothy Tangney from Western Australia and Dame Annabelle Rankin from Queensland. I think that Dame Annabelle Rankin has a mother in her 90s. If anything happened to Dame Annabelle Rankin while carrying out her present duties in New Zealand or anywhere else what would be the position in regard to her mother? I think that the Parliament would be pretty tough if it did not pass legislation to recognise her position. 
The married members of Parliament - both men and women - now have been very well catered for. There is no question about this. The married women had to fight for some time to obtain these benefits. The husbands of the married women who have been in this Parliament may have been in quite good positions but the trustees sponsoring the fund eventually recognised that they had rights because of the contributions made. The husbands of married female members of the Parliament will receive the same benefits on the deaths of their wives as do the widows of deceased married male members. 
I think the only area that is now neglected is that of the single men and women who serve in this Parliament. Surely in this enlightened twentieth century we should not have the situation that existed when I first came to Parliament in Canberra when spinsters or bachelors could not even bring a partner to a function. Therefore I shall strongly support the amendment that will be moved by  Senator Byrne.  I hope that the Senate will carry it. It is of no good for us to say that we are in favour of the amendment; unless we take a strong stand on these things we might as well say goodbye. We know that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  are nol in favour of such things. They do not mind spending the country's money in pretty big lumps galloping around the world to stage themselves. 1 therefore support this proposition and ask that it be treated in a human way. 
I do not know whether to ask this question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Minister assisting the Prime Minister, the Minister representing the Treasurer or the Minister for the Media, but it is this: Is it not a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be broadcasting the Treasurer's Budget Speech this evening? Is it a fact that the commercial broadcasting stations are not permitted to comment on the Treasurer's Speech until the conclusion of the Speech? If this is so, why is there discrimination in favour of the ABC and against the private broadcasting companies? 
-I ask the substance of the question which I asked originally. Did the Attorney-General check with  Mr Marshall  to ascertain whether what  Mr Marshall  is reported by a newspaper to have said to a reporter was said by  Mr Marshall  to that reporter. 
I am amazed at the squeamishness of so many of our parliamentarians who defend people who destroy the lives of other people, sometimes in a most dastardly fashion or in ways which have great national consequences. Of course, the decision was made on the general principle.  Senator Greenwood  .has moved a motion touching on treason. We have heard all sorts of angles expressed on treason. This legislation applies mainly to treason, to people who are treacherous to their country. I have heard it said here that a person might be treacherous to his country and a few lives or a few hundred lives might be lost. I think that is taking a very small view of what treason might be. Most acts of treason resulting in national consequences come about during a time of national crisis such as a war. What do we find? In the last 2 World Wars people were killing each other because of the determination of one country to survive against another. Our own men were taking the lives of people opposed to us. Does any honourable senator want to tell me that if one of our men or one of the enemy had moved over to the other side, committing a disloyal act of treason by going over, the natural reaction of the side he left would not have been to shoot him? Of course it would have been. That is the natural reaction in cases like that. 
In the matter of treason let us consider what can happen to a person who is treasonable to his country in a time of war. This involves not the loss of a few lives but probably the loss of a war by a nation because of that person's treachery. Treason reaches far beyond simple acts like that today. It may be the treacherous act of a person who relays information to an enemy country so that that enemy is enabled to find out just what a country such as ours might be doing. As a consequence it might be able to take action to counter our move or moves and possibly to destroy this nation. Am I supposed to believe that a person who would act to sacrifice his own country and have his countrymen put under the yoke of another country, causing the deaths of a great many of his countrymen, should be allowed to survive because of squeamishness about getting rid of him? 
What could be the result of a change of control of Australia? A traitor could become one of the dominant persons in this country because of his treachery. Can honourable senators imagine the consequences and how many lives would be taken as a result of that treachery when somebody else took control of our nation or any other nation? So far as I am concerned, treachery to a nation is a very serious matter. It is a serious matter to the people living within that nation. There is a namby-pamby attitude towards criminals to whom leniency and sympathy are extended by so many people in public life and by the courts, lt is an indication of how weak-kneed this nation and its people have become. 
As I have said before, I am one who believes in the general principle that the death penalty should be retained. In fighting these particular sections of the legislation before us it is what might be termed a 'rearguard action' to retain something of a sensible character relating to the abolition of the death penalty. A policeman is compelled, by his duties, to enter into dangerous areas on behalf of citizens. He is compelled to safeguard them. Because of the special requirements of his duty, such as going into these danger areas, I think special consideration should be given to his case. I will illustrate that idea. If the police force generally adopted the attitude of many of the unions and said, 'Well, because there is danger we will not carry out our duty', many of those people who are shouting loudest about people not receiving death penalties for taking the life of a policeman would be the first to call out that something should be done for the protection of the police so that they themselves might be protected. I think that we should give this special consideration because of the circumstances which require policemen to enter danger areas. 
I know there has been a lot of talk as to why the abolition of the death penalty will encourage people to behave correctly. I have a great regard for the logic of the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy.  However, he has been led astray on this occasion by an idealistic fantasy that, with the abolition of the death penalty, the idea of killing other people will disappear. That is a very fine form of idealism but it is not a practical idealism. More and more criminal action will take place when the death penalty is abolished. Ultimately people, through their legislators, will be forced to restore the death penalty. There is no question about it. Contrary to what  Senator Murphy  says, that is what will happen. 
Because of what has been taking place in Great Britain there is more and more demand amongst the people to restore the death penalty. The parliamentarians have not yet got strong enough stomachs to stand up to it but as the demand strengthens they will become stronger, too, and restore the death penalty. If they do not do that the crime rate will grow and grow until eventually what we know as civilisation might very well break down. We see this idealistic business of reforming people day after day in our courts. Judges poke out their chests when they sentence a man to 20 years imprisonment with a parole period of 4 years. What they mean to say is that in their own weak manner they have sentenced the man to 4 years' imprisonment. That is what it really amounts to. 
What happens to this type of person when he is released from goal. Does he reform completely? What is the evidence? I quoted a particular case before and I think it has since developed further. Some years ago a chap raped 4 models in one of the parks in Sydney - Centennial Park or Hyde Park - and: he was gaoled and let out on parole. After he was released from gaol he entered a school and, I think killed a school teacher and student and injured another girl or teacher. He was sent back to gaol. If he had served the length of his prison term those people would have been saved. What happened when he went back to gaol? One of these idealistic people, an entertainer, a young girl, went along to the gaol to entertain the prisoners. The man to whom I refer charged forth and assailed the entertainer in front of everybody in the gaol and the prisoners had to drag him away. Do honourable senators think that the soft treatment he received through being paroled and the tenderness he was shown reformed him? Of course it did not? 
In my own State, Queensland, somebody saw something about 62 miles north of my town of Mackay and began to investigate. He found a heap of timber and noticed that somebody had tried to start a fire. He began to fossick around and found that 3 young men had been killed. That case is well known today. A young man and a young lady were arrested. The young man did what the law should have done - he hanged himself. Nobody was very concerned about his hanging himself, in fact, it was probably the best thing that could happen. 
 We make a song and dance about hanging people. This fellow recognised that the right penalty for himself was hanging, and he did the job completely. 
 Well, it is an illustration. A lot of people would be worried about hanging that particular chap, but he did the job himself. 
 Exactly. I am trying to point out that special consideration should be given to circumstances where people have to go into danger areas to protect the safety of others. I think it should be demonstrated very clearly to the criminal element that if it does anything of a criminal nature to people who protect others we will show a strong force. I think history shows, and will always show  -  it shows in public life as well as anywhere else - that if people are strong results are obtained. If we have strong legislation we will get results. 
Not so many years ago I remember people saying that it was no good putting people in gaol and that it was no good doing this and that. There was a magistrate in Toowoomba, Queensland, who would sentence people to gaol for a month if they were found guilty of drunken driving. People became very careful in that city about drinking and driving. That shows that people take notice of someone who is strong. When that magistrate retired he stood for the city council and came second I think, in the poll of many candidates. When he stood again his term was renewed. Unfortunately he has passed on. That man demonstrated that people who are strong in seeing that the law is carried out will always win the approbation of the people generally. 
1 have been very interested in this debate on the proposed amendment, together with the debate on the other amendments that have been moved this evening. I have been most interested in the way that points have been stated in order to try to prove that capital punishment does not do something for the community. The word 'deterrent' has been used. It is said 'it is not a deterrent'. Of course, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said that if somebody was put in gaol and escaped, he might commit the same offence again. I think that instead of just thinking of deterrents we should think of the elimination of people who commit these crimes. If such people are eliminated, they are not there to commit the crime again. But the elimination of those people can be a deterrent to some other people who would have a second thought about doing such things. That is what we have to think about. 
I do not think that the average person would say that that type of individual who is prepared to commit mass murder, to terrorise people and to commit acts of the type committed by political terrorists should be allowed to live amongst us. This is a human society. If people are not prepared to conduct themselves in a decent way they are not worthy to live amongst others in this human society. This debate has been continuing for some considerable time. But so far as a deterrent is concerned, I believe always that strong action has its effect. That has been proved time and time again in other directions, even in this political world. It is strong leadership that can win elections. We hear al! this twaddling stuff from the media and idealistic people or people who think they know everything about winning elections. When all is said and done, it comes down to the strength of leadership. It comes down to plain common gumption, political nouse and a few things like that. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I am wondering whether the honourable senator is inferring that leadership is a form of terrorism. Otherwise I cannot relate his statement to this debate. 
I am talking about strength having its effect upon people. It does not matter in what direction it is, strength, when exhibited to people has an effect. I am quite convinced that if we have strong effects so far as terrorists are concerned, by eliminating them, we will get rid of them. 1 know I have said this before. Some people may think that I am a bit ruthless. I believe that one of the worst features about hanging is the process involved in it - standing on the platform, dropping and hanging. The simplest way would be to give such people a needle and get rid of them. That is how it should be done. If that were done, I believe that we would find that it would have its effect upon many people who might have silly ideas. 
As a matter of fact, I make bold to say this: A great deal of crime takes place because of the publicity that some of the crime makers get through the shallow type of media today. The sort of people who like that publicity do things very often just for the publicity. We see the sort of crimes that are being committed today. There is the case involving the 2 little girls in Adelaide which came to light just the other day. When honourable senators see the picture of one of these little tots, does not it make their stomachs turn up? We read about that individual in the bank vault in Stockholm. He has 3 women and a man held as hostages. It is said that he is so ruthless that he would not stop at anything. Am I to be told that people like that deserve to live in this human society? Of course they do not. If we faced up to the position, we would get rid of them. This is going on now because of the weakness of our public men who are not game to stand up to what should be done. 
I heard  Senator Keeffe  speak about Queensland, the State from which he and I come. Queensland has not used the death penalty for years and  Senator Keeffe  stated that the percentage of murders committed there was less than elsewhere. Of course, I suppose that it can be said that we are the happiest people in Australia because we live in the best State, have the warmest sunshine and have the best State Government at the present time. But it seemed to me that perhaps  Senator Keeffe's  argument might have had some more weight if he had compared what took place in Queensland years ago with what is taking place today. It is unfortunate that, whilst the number of these crimes probably has not risen to the extent that the numbers of other terribly tragic crimes have risen, it has risen over the years from what it used to be. Killing people was once a very rare crime, but today it is becoming more and more frequent. It may be that people from the south are coming to Queensland and indulging in their dreadful ways in our State, but I think these crimes have to be looked at more carefully than that. 
Knowing human nature and knowing the feelings of people on these things, I believe that if the issue were put fairly and squarely before the average member of the public he would say: 'Get rid of this menace in our community by getting rid of the people who commit these tragic crimes'. I think it makes people absolutely sick in the stomach to read of these crimes. In the political terrorism that is going on, people are dropping bombs and killing innocent people. They do not care who they kill. No one can tell me that these people should be allowed to move in the decent human society which we believe that it is. I think that the sooner we face up to this situation and get rid of these people by imposing the death penalty the better. 
Last week when we were debating this Bill I said, and I repeat, that because of our weakness the position will get worse. I believe that it could lead to a breakdown of our society because, once things such as this get out of hand, nobody is then game to stand up. Now is the time for us to stand up, before we arrive at that horrible state. I stand right behind what  Senator Greenwood  has said. I think that the sooner that we realise that something should be done to deter these criminals among us the better it will be for the human race. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clause  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be added. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that during the last week of the sittings of the Senate  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labour, stated on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program, when dealing with the question of the reintroduction of his legislation, that the Senate would not give the legislation thorough consideration and would treat it in a gimmicky fashion? I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate knowing his regard for the status of Parliament: Does he not consider that the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has cast a serious reflection upon the Senate, one of the Houses of the Parliament of Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Works who represents the Minister for Transport in this chamber whether he noticed an article in this morning's Press which stated that  Dr Cass,  the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, had said that all international air travellers should use the Tullamarine Airport at Melbourne and domestic travellers should use the Sydney Airport. Is it the thinking of the present Government to concentrate all international travellers at Melbourne and domestic travellers at Sydney or is this just the stupid suggestion of the Minister? 
-The problem of inflation is a very serious one. I was rather amazed by a statement made recently by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he treated the problem in such a flippant way that one of the papers which was a strong supporter of his prior to the election took him to task for the flippancy with which he dealt with this very serious problem. It is a serious problem because it affects every citizen. Unfortunately, a lot of people think that it does not affect them, but it does. I think that the Government, in its financial actions to control inflation, has been acting most irresponsibly and in a dangerous manner. I shall indicate to the ordinary citizen how inflation affects them now. In the past year inflation has risen at a much higher rate than it did under previous governments. Let there be no misunderstanding on this question. The inflation rate is rising much faster now than it rose under the Liberal-Country Party governments. Last year it rose by 13 per cent. What does that mean to the ordinary person? It means that every $100 he saved last year is now worth $87. That is putting it in clear, cold facts. That $100 is now worth only $87 to the person who made the saving. There is a lot of talk about people wanting homes. Every $1,000 that a person has saved for a home is now worth only $870. So we can see what happens to the efforts of thrifty people who are trying to save. They are not achieving much because their money has been made to disappear under this Labor Government. 
If the inflation rate rises to 20 per cent, as some people say it will, the $100 will be reduced to a mere $67. So we can see how it is going down the scale of values. The $1,000 that a person has saved for his home will be worth $670. So we can see that inflation is a very serious thing so far as the ordinary individual is concerned. The effects of inflation on the individual need to be driven home to the ordinary person. If the inflation rate rose by only another 10 per cent, the $ 100 would reach the low level of $77. The $1,000 would be worth only $770. So we can see how serious the position is. There is no question about it.  Mr Whitlam,  as Prime Minister, is now a financial magician. He has that very unhappy knack of making your money disappear before your eyes without you even seeing it. The Labor Party, by the very basis of its policy, has set its sails to cause inflation. Irrespective of the talk about the endorsement of its policies- the average person cannot remember what he heard in the policy speech- if it carried out those policies in full all of us would be working for the Government. What would happen? There would be raging inflation. 
No section of the Labor Party is trying to control inflation. That means that it is costing the ordinary citizen a great deal more to live. Inflation means not only a loss of savings but also causes a higher cost of living. Labor's policy is to spend, and the way that it is doing so is increasing inflation. It has acted absolutely contrary to the efforts which should be made to reduce inflation. What has it done? It has spent money; it has thrown money around as though it were water. Look at its actions in regard to the Public Service. Instead of being careful about this matter the Government has appeared before the arbitration court and said: 'Give them the money'. Then what did the Government give the public servants? It gave them an extra week's annual leave. It also gave the women in the Public Service maternity leave of 3 months. The Government also will give paternity leave to husbands. I do not know why. As a bachelor I cannot understand this pregnancy business. The Government's elections have caused real inflation. There is no question about that. Its actions are costing this country money. 
It is not the Labor Government or any government that pays; it is you, I and every citizen who has to meet these charges. The money has to be forked out of our pockets. We are getting less value for our money, and we are paying more to do things. It is very nice for the Government to be generous to the Public Service, but imagine the position if these benefits flow to private industry. There will be greater costs of production. There is no question that the Budget is encouraging inflation. The Government should be concentrating on 2 counts to decrease inflation. Firstly, it should cut down on Government spending which it is not doing. It is increasing Government spending. Secondly, it should be trying to build up production. They are the 2 key points that the Government should work upon to decrease the rate of inflation. There is no doubt that that would have an effect. 
Let us take the matter of price reductions. To put it in simple terms, if a manufacturing industry could produce twice as many goods tomorrow as it is producing today, the cost of those articles must be reduced. What does the Government do? Is it encouraging anything like that? It does not encourage the keeping down of Government spending. It is accelerating Government spending and not doing anything to encourage increased production. Do we hear a call for the people to do more work to try to bring about more production? Do we hear a call for those in business and industry to work harder? Not one call comes from this Government on this issue. Instead we find that the allowance which used to be paid to business and industry for purchasing new machinery, equipment and that sort of thing in order to increase production has been cut out. The way in which the Government is acting is against increasing production, which could be one of the key factors in reducing inflation. 
Also, we find in the Budget that primary industry received a kick in the neck. The country people do not count for anything with this Labor Government. Let me take the case of the dairying industry. That industry has been deprived of various contributions made by previous Commonwealth governments. It was very nice for the Government to say that these people do not need this assistance. But what we must try to do is get increased production. If production goes down in the dairying industry, consequently the price of butter will go up. That is one of the table commodities in almost every home in Australia and is vital to the cost of living. Do not tell me that these things cannot have an effect. During the period when the Chifley Labor Government imposed a price control, the number of cattle in the dairying industry in Australia was reduced by 300,000 head.  Senator Lillico  from Tasmania informed me that on that occasion in that small State the number of cattle decreased by 26,000 head. In addition to that, price control wiped out the fat lamb export industry. 
Now we hear all this talk about price control bringing about this deflationary aspect. What a lot of nonsense. The Government has not proved this and to introduce price control is only kidding the people. Wherever one travels, one finds a very serious and deep concern expressed by the people of this country in relation to the activities of this Government. They will tell you straight from the shoulder: 'We are very worried about what is going on'. Because of this worry, there is deep concern. As can be seen from the opinion polls which are now being conducted, these things are having an effect. I believe that the people are waking up to the situation as it now exists. This Government is causing inflation, not trying to stop it. It is doing everything possible to develop inflation through its irresponsibility and the recklessness of its financial administration. 
I do not want to take very long on this matter because I believe in speaking in simple terms. The position has become so bad that I am reminded of a song that used to be very popular in days gone by. The tune fits in with some lines that I have here. The song was called  'Mr Gallagher  and  Mr Sheehan'.  I do not propose to sing it but I have added a few more lines to it. I think that this story can be concluded with these lines. I will read them because this is the type of thing that probably people will remember: 
Oh  Mr Whitlam, 
Oh  Mr Whitlam, 
No doubt you 've heard this talk about inflation; 
A man can 't buy a house, he 's living like a louse 
And things are really tough within the nation. 
Oh  Mr Crean, 
Oh  Mr Crean, 
Things are crooker now than they have ever been; 
The cost of living 's got so high 
It's far cheaper now to die, 
Absolutely  Mr Whitlam, 
Positively  Mr Crean. 
In dealing with inflation we talk about the cost of housing about which the Government is so concerned. What hypocrisy do we find? The Government says that people should sell land cheaply so that other people can obtain homes cheaply. I always believe in practising what you preach. For some months now we have seen the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  trying to sell a house in Sydney and asking a price that is $10,000 to $12,000 above what is considered a fair market price. He has not sold it yet. 
According to the newspaper I read the other day, he has not sold it.  His  price is too high. He is the type of hypocritical man who talks about cheap housing for the people. Oh  Mr Whitlam,  oh  Mr Crean,  positively and absolutely the cost of living is far too high. 
I direct my question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs.  Senator Willesee  in reply to  Senator Sim  indicated that a person may not make a visit to Taiwan on an official or diplomatic passport. I ask the Minister: Does this mean that parliamentarians who travel on official passports are not allowed to go to Taiwan? If that is so, what authority has this Government to stop parliamentarians from going to any place that they desire to visit? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question in relation to the US$2 m that has been paid for the painting Blue Poles'. Has the attention of the Government not been drawn to the fact that it is only a few years since this painting was bought for a few thousand dollars? Does he not consider that this is a terrific rate of appreciation on such a work of art? Is it not a fact that for the people in Australia the Government, in its aim to control prices in such things as land, is prepared to allow an appreciation rate of only 7 per cent a year? If it is prepared to control people living in Australia by setting such low appreciation rates, why does it have a different code allowing such generous treatment of people overseas? 
Order! I rule that the discussion relating to prices can come within clause 1. 1 suggest that  Senator Greenwood  confine his remarks to clause 1. 1 think that the discussion in relation to prices is quite in order under that clause. 
One should look at the legislation of other countries which have passed legislation dealing with prices and incomes policies. The United Kingdom legislation is called the Counter Inflation (Temporary Provisions) Act of 1972. It refers to a number of prices or charges. For example, it refers to prices or charges for transactions, remuneration for work for any period, the words 'ordinary dividend ' referring to a dividend declared by a company, and the word rent'. It is apparent that the prices policy, which is generally the language used to describe the type of policy which the United Kingdom legislature passed, is a policy which applies to goods, charges and services. Many people in this country may well believe that the alteration which is being proposed is an alteration which is across the board and that it applies not only to prices of goods, ' which I readily would concede is the ready interpretation which people would give to it, but they may or may not know that it applieswho knows whether their apprehension is correctto the charges made by persons who repair television sets, plumbing and broken window panes, to the charges made by doctors when attending patients when the occasion arises or to any of the other prices which professional people are charging and which are comprehended by the type of power which is given here. The United States legislation was called the Economic Stabilisation Act of 1 970. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I support this motion because, the decision having been made to go to the people, the quicker a decision is made by the people the better it will be for the nation. I do not agree with the proposition that we should not vote against a Bill on the basis that it is the people who should decide. I have had some experience with referendums since I entered this chamber. I remember the Bill relating to the dissolution of the Communist Party which everybody thought would fly through. It did not. I remember the Bill relating to the breaking of the nexus between the Houses, which is the silliest thing that a Parliament has ever approved of. It would have built up one House to 2,600 members when we reached a population the size of the American population and kept the number of Senators at 60. As 1 said at the time, can honourable senators imagine how many members of the other House would have been killed trying to get through the door during the 2 minutes the bells would ring for a division? That was a Bill for a referendum that was supported by every member of every party in both Houses of this Parliament, with the exception of 10 of us. There were several Liberal members- two of my Liberal colleagues here were in that 10- several Country Party members and the Democratic Labor Party senators. There were 10 of us altogether, if I remember rightly. 
I want to make it clear that I am one who has a very high regard for  Senator McManus  as a parliamentarian and on his general attitude to public questions; but I think he is a little astray when he says that we should not vote against a Bill but should let the people decide. If my memory serves me correctly, on the previous occasion he voted against the legislation in the chamber. So there is an inconsistency in that respect. Now, of course, the decision has been made that a referendum be taken to the people. Having had the experience of seeing how these referendums go, I know that there is probably a feeling that these proposals will fly through. It is rather interesting to recall that last Saturday an election took place in the middle of all the debate and publicity that has been going on in connection with the prices referendum; but apparently it did not win any votes for the Government. That is quite apparent. Very often, questions which look like vote winners are not. I would say that the prospect of this question going through is not as rosy now as it was 2 or 3 weeks ago. Sometimes people in Parliament think that the public wants this and that, but when the test is made it does not always prove to be so. 
I remember on the occasion of the nexus referendum members of the media, the people who very often think they are the mind moulders of the nation, came to me and said: 'This is one time when you will not win'. I said: 'No?' They said: 'All the parties are together, except the small DLP and eight or so members of the Government parties. The Labor Party supports it too. Whenever all the major parties get together and when the Press of Australia is behind a proposal, it is bound to go through'. I said: 'I am sorry to disappoint you, but this time it will not go through. We will win in 5 States out of 6; we will lose in New South Wales, but not by much'. It turned out to be by 30,000 votes. The simple issue which the matter hung on was the use of a phrase which people understood- ' We do not want any more parliamentarians- vote "No".' Already a phrase that might very well be used on this occasion has come into my mind. Whilst Parliament might think that these referendums will have an easy run, that is not always to say that they will. Very often we cannot tell whether a referendum will go through because there is a caution in the minds of the Australian people when it comes to fiddling around with the Constitution which was given such a great deal of thought when it was first created. For that reason I believe that, the decision having been made that this question is to be put to the people, the quicker it goes before the people the better it will be- just to get it out of the way. 
It is one I will keep in my mind for the moment and one I hope might be used. 
-No, it is not  'Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Crean'  this time. Issues can be brought home to the people very clearly, and I feel that if the people have this issue brought home to them they will decide that they do not want parliamentarians fiddling in their business any more than they probably do at present, because the full extent of this referendum may be more farreaching within their own personal activities than possibly they realise now. Even the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  sent a shiver down the spines of some people when he said that the word 'prices' possibly could include incomes. The word 'prices' has never been clearly defined. The people will want it clearly defined before they give their opinion. 
It was published. Anyhow, it has been stated by many people.  Mr President,  you can get an idea of how difficult it is for people to make up their minds on this matter by looking, as  Senator Greenwood  and, I have an idea,  Senator Wright  mentioned, at the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has shilly-shallied on the whole question of the referendum. It was only because the referendum was forced upon him that he agreed to it. He immediately clutched it to his breast as though it was something wonderful that he wanted. He was going to bring incomes into it, but  Mr Hawke  said no. He shilly-shallied again. Now the DLP has put a threat over him. It said that this Bill in relation to prices would not go through if the Government did not introduce one in relation to incomes. What happened? The Prime Minister shilly-shallied again. There is no doubt about it. In view of the way he shillyshallied on this question, he might well be known as the shilly-shallying Prime Minister.  His  shillyshallying might well put a doubt in the minds of people so that when this referendum is put they might prefer things to go on the way they are and might realise that inflation cannot be cured by prices and incomes control; it requires other action. In this respect the Government has the opportunity at hand. Two basic things are required. One is to stop throwing government money around everywhere, creating intense pressure and demand on supplies, and the other is to set about increasing production in this country in order to make goods cheaper. Those are things with which the Government can deal. I believe that this referendum might well show to the people that the Government has failed to tackle inflation which is causing the disappearance of people's money before they can pull it out of their pockets. 
I think the argument relating to inflation and its consequences concerns this legislation. This Bill was introduced as a result of rising prices and inflation. I think it is in order for  Senator Webster  to speak along the lines that he has been following but I ask him not to over-run the boundary. 
Cavanagh knows that because he was a craftsman in the building industry. He knows that there is pressure on the resources of the building industry. The greatest catalyst of inflation in the community is the demand for housing. In the first 6 months that this socialist Labor Government was in power people saw their money depreciated. They realised that their savings, amounting to $8,000m, which were in Australian banks, were going to be depreciated by one-fifth every year. Therefore they decided to invest their money in fixed assets. The best fixed asset for any investment is land and buildings. The problem that the honourable senator's Government has generated is affecting the industry he once represented. The Minister has pinpointed what the Labor Party did to bring about this situation, and I believe he knows that that is correct. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he can assure me that he will respond by giving a description of what is meant by the word prices'. What will the Labor Party seek to control if it is given power over 'prices'? I ask the Leader of the Government whether he will indicate these things to me if I resume my seat. The Leader of the Government does not answer, so we are left with a typical void. 
I am bewildered as to what the Labor Government proposes to do. It has said that this inflationary tendency was created by somebody else; that is was created not by the Labor Government but by the former Government. The former Government has a record over the past 10 years of keeping inflation at an average annual rate of 3.5 per cent. Of course, the figure has varied from year to year but that is the average. In December 1972 the rate of inflation stood at 4.6 per cent. Could any reasonable or sensible person ever accept the proposition that the previous Administration was unable to handle the economy? The answer is no. The Labor Party must take it on its own shoulders that it has created this situation in the last months. Added to that is the fact that in the last couple of weeks the Labor Government has said for the first time: 'We must submit to the people a referendum to gain control of prices so that we can control inflation; we cannot do it otherwise'. The Labor Government admits to the people of Australia its complete inability to manage the economy of this country. 
In what areas can the people gain confidence from what Labor proposes to do? Are there any areas over which in the last 9 months the Labor Government has had control of those things in relation to which it seeks power? The answer is yes; that it has had that control in the Australian' Capital Territory. One of the greatest problems in the community at the moment is said to be the high cost of land. Incidentally, if one compares the cost of real estate in Australia with that applying in other countries one finds that real estate values here are quite reasonable. In fact, the high cost of real estate today has come about because originally the cost of the development of the land- the provision of roads, curbing, channelling, footpaths and the other services that go on to a block of land- was contained and absorbed by the Government, whether it be State, municipal or Federal. In those days one would pay one thousand pounds for a block of land, but that original cost was worked out on the basis that over the next 20 years one would pay some few thousand dollars towards the cost of the roads and other services that had been provided by the local government authority. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the legislation for the incomes control referendum was bulldozed through the Senate without proper debate because  Senator Willesee  was about to make a jaunt overseas? Does the Leader, as a parliamentarian, not consider that such action for such a reason helps to destroy the democracy of the Senate as a very important arm of democratic government in this country? 
Yes, I have. I consider it is wrong that people sitting in this section of the chamber have to wait until practically everybody else has asked a question. I think that we are entitled to ask a question in order of standing; not this business of calling senators from one end of the chamber to the other. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That section 16 of the Sewerage Rates Ordinance 1973, as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance 1973 No. 25 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-72, be disallowed. 
-I am quite sure that I would not last long there and I am quite sure that  Senator Cavanagh,  whatever his predelictions may be, would not last long there either. It is a totally different society when compared with our society. But if there are instances of human rights which are jeopardised and threatened in that country, I believe that just because we happen to be growing in closer relationship, government to government, we should not be sufficiently tamed not to raise our voice in protest, and to seek a change or an amelioration of the lot of people in those countries. Whatever the differences between countries, however the balance between authority and liberty is resolved in these different countries, the free peoples- those who seek to elevate the dignity of man, to laud him for what he is and for what he is able to achieve- will reflect, I believe, the measure of their own value of freedom by the consistency with which they defend freedom in their own countries and likewise challenge those who would deny freedom to other countries. 
I have concentrated on one aspect of this motion. I have not referred to the aspects of the various persons in Russia whose ordeal has been portrayed to us and of which the newspapers, fortunately, are full of indications and details. It is a tragic story but is also a story of great courage because when people seek to exercise their basic freedoms the great sagas of the world are written. I believe it would be a tragedy for this country if we were to remain silent when obviously there is growing world opinion with which we can be associated which can express a view which may help these people. I believe that this Government should be prepared to come out clearly and emphatically and by its spokesmen, if not its Prime Minister, indicate that it will act on this motion. 
-These postal measures have been dealt with in detail now by a number of speakers and I do not propose to go over them again because it would be just a matter of repetition.  Senator Kane  dealt with a quite a number of the finer details of the measures. One aspect of them that concerns me is that the Government, having set up a royal commission to investigate the Australian Post Office and its costs, introduces this quite extensive series of very big increases in charges for services before the findings of the Commission are known. It is surprising that this investigation has not been speeded up in some way in order to give the Government some lead in the direction in which it should be going in connection with these charges. 
The increased charges on letters, after they reach a certain weight, can be considerable. But what interests and concerns me are the increased charges for posting books. This applies also to Australian produced books. The encouragement to give or send books to people should be very dear to us because the more people read the better the Australian population will become. I think that the fact that people read books widely and extensively encourages the mental development of people and it improves their general outlook. Therefore, I think that is a very serious consideration as far as Australian printed books are concerned. If people read books it means more work in the printing trade in the production of those books. 1 believe that these increased postal charges could affect the printing trade quite considerably. 
However, the point that I really want to press this afternoon concerns one of our North Queensland newspapers, the 'Evening Advocate'. Apparently this newspaper receives' its news by way of telegram, telephone, telex, etc. Consequently, the proprietors of this newspaper claim that their costs will increase considerably. I have had discussions with one of the officers of the Postmaster-General's Department. He said that the Department, in turn, has been having discussions with the proprietors of the 'Evening Advocate '. But according to the latest advice that I have received from the proprietors of the Evening Advocate', the conference held yesterday between the people in Brisbane and Cairns, at the instigation of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the proposal that the newspaper should instal telex, was not productive, the notice was too short and the estimates were not complete. From the advice that has been a given publicly and from the advice that has been sent to me, it appears that as from tomorrow the 'Evening Advocate ' will cease production. 
This matter requires very urgent consideration because the 'Evening Advocate' serves the town of Innisfail in a sugar growing area in the northern part of Queensland, which has a population of about 17,000 people. I think that newspapers in areas like this play a very important part. It is not only international or interstate news that counts in these areas; local news also counts. A local newspaper is more or less a meeting place. It gives information on the functions taking place and the different gatherings that are being held. This makes for community spirit and creates community knowledge, and this is an important matter in smaller centres. Queensland is a widely dispersed and well distributed State as far as cities and towns are concerned. It is good to see community spirit develop in the various areas and very often the newspaper is the focal point of this development. The newspaper contains advertisements regarding meetings and functions that are to take place, there are reports of gatherings, functions and meetings and there is information on visitors to the area. Therefore newspapers can be very much the lifeblood of a community. A newspaper is the means whereby people more or less mentally get together and read about the doings of each other and the activities taking place in the area. 
I urgently press the Postmaster-General's Department to try to conclude something quickly with the 'Evening Advocate' at Innisfail in order to prevent the closure of this newspaper. No one can say that the newspaper is run by a big southern organisation. It is run by the Groom brothers, George and Spencer Groom, who over many years have been associated with the newspaper world. These men over a period have developed the 'Evening Advocate' into a newspaper of a very fine standard. I know the Grooms and I know the 'Evening Advocate'. They are members of a family which has been continuously associated with Queensland newspapers since 1 874. Previously one of them was associated with the 'Toowoomba Chronicle ' and later he became the sole proprietor of that newspaper. I think that people like this who have ventured forth, developed and played an important part - 
-Yes. In 1874 William Henry Groom purchased a half interest in the Toowoomba Chronicle'. He became the sole proprietor of that newspaper 3 years later. He was elected the first Mayor of Toowoomba. He served in the Queensland Legislative Assembly until the establishment of Federation in 1 900. He was then elected the first member for Darling Downs in the Federal Parliament, dying in Melbourne 3 months later.  His  eldest son, Henry Littleton Groom, a member of the Queensland Legislative Council for 16 years, was later managing director of the 'Toowoomba Chronicle'. He served several years as  President  of the Queensland Country Press Association and he was a past-President of the Australian Provincial Press Association. George Groom, who is one of the proprietors of the 'Evening Advocate', has been engaged in Australian journalism continuously for 55 years. Spencer Groom, who is the other brother conducting the 'Evening Advocate', has been engaged in Australian journalism continuously for 53 years. They are the sons of Henry Littleton Groom.  Sir Littleton  Ernest Groom, another son of William Henry Groom, was for many years a member of the House of Representatives- succeeding his father as the member for Darling Downs- and he held several ministerial offices. Honourable senators can see that they are people who have served a long time in the newspaper world; they are people who belong to families who have given great service for many years in the parliamentary life of Australia. They are the type of people whom we should encourage to continue in the newspaper world. I know that the Groom brothers give a very good account of the news through their newspaper in Innisfail. Apparently the newspaper is so highly regarded that many people and organisations have appealed to the 
Government to allow it to continue by lowering the amount that is charged for the services which the newspaper uses to get news from elsewhere. Also one of the local branches of the Labor Party has approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to try to get him to do something about this matter. Probably the Government can have a soft heart sometimes, and I think this is one of the things at which the Government can look quickly and take action expeditiously in the hope that this valued newspaper, which is providing a very great service to the fine community of Innisfail in North Queensland, can be saved and allowed to continue. I therefore press very firmly and strongly the claim for quick action so that this evening newspaper might continue to provide the very good service which it has provided over the years. The postal charges seem to be of a very stiff character and I think that they should be opposed. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to the announcement that depositors in savings banks with more than $4,000 on deposit will receive an increase in interest rates on their deposits whilst depositors with deposits of $4,000 and less will not receive any increase. Does the Minister not consider this is a shabby deal to the smaller depositors? How can he reconcile this treatment of the smaller people by the Labor Government in the light of its oft repeated claim that it is a government for the smaller people? 
-Senator Mulvihill knows that he can reach a point at which he will lose me because of his greater expertise in this field. When he asks whether containerisation problems are to be construed strictly as demarcation disputes, he is almost involving me in the Moore v Doyle situation. All I will say is that on the figures put out by the Department of Labour- I think its expertise and categorisations are to be acknowledged- the number of disputes which were caused by demarcation issues was approximately one-tenth of the number of industrial disputes which took place in the June quarter of this year. The Prime Minister blamed the massive increase in the number of strikes and the losses caused thereby in that quarter on, to use his own description, the Lynch laws- the conciliation and arbitration amendments introduced by  Mr Lynch  last year. As  Mr Lynch  subsequently pointed out, to attribute blame in that way was to attribute blame on a completely erroneous basis, because the only aspect of the so-called Lynch laws to which the Prime Minister could have been referring was the omission of some provision in the Moore v Doyle area. That omission could be regarded as contributing, if indeed some substitute provision could have solved the problems, to some 10 per cent only of all industrial disputes which occurred in that quarter. The only substantial change in this Bill from the legislation which was on the statute book when the previous Government went out of office and which could be regarded as significantly altering the position in this field is that clause which seeks to give effect to the decisions of the conferences which have taken place in an effort to overcome the results of the decision in the Moore v Doyle case. The Bill is not one which, to use the Prime Minister's expression, changes significantly the laws introduced by  Mr Lynch-  the so-called Lynch laws. 
What has been the situation this year? Notwithstanding what was said in the Labor Party's election program, there has been an increase in industrial disputation and the losses caused thereby in the period that the present Government has been in office. Last November, before the December election,  Mr Whitlam  promised that there would be an effecting of the aims of Labor's industrial policy, which were to reduce government interference and intervention in industrial matters; to put conciliation back into arbitration; to abolish the penal clauses which made strikes in Australia, alone in the English speaking world, a criminal offence. The decision to reduce government interference and intervention in industrial matters has been clearly demonstrated because there has been a washing of the hands by the Government whenever there has been an industrial dispute. Accordingly, the community suffers for weeks, until either the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or plain commonsense comes to bear and brings the dispute to an end. 
The suggestion was that conciliation should be put back into arbitration. For conciliation to be put back into arbitration people must be prepared to undertake the task of conciliation, which is to bring people together, and that is something of which we have not seen much evidence in the past 9 months. The suggestion was to abolish the penal clauses which, it was said, made strikes a criminal offence. That interpretation is a completely misleading interpretation of the current provisions of our industrial legislation. The Government is not seeking to give effect to that aim in this Bill. 
Yet we refer to the record for this year. Notwithstanding the view put forward last NovemberDecember that a Labor Government could be expected to improve industrial relations because, after all, a Labor Government would know the unions and the unionists better than a Liberal-Country Party Government would, the record is precisely the opposite. I quote from the 
Canberra Times' editorial of Wednesday, 3 October. I quote from this editorial simply because it was at hand, and many similar quotations could be extracted from considered writings. It states: 
The reports of the Bureau of Census and Statistics on days, wages, and production lost during the first 6 months of 1973 show that days lost are close to double the number for the same period of 1972 and that losses in wages have climbed from $ 1 3.2m to $23. 7m. During the month of June strikes and work bans heavily reduced production in key industries such as steel, vehicle making, power, cement, beer, refrigerators, cotton and electric motors. The grim statistical record prompts the question: Do the unions have to pursue their industrial aims at the cost of such huge losses for the whole of the community? 
One wonders whether at present the growing shortages, of which we are becoming aware, in so many supplies are due in some way to the loss of production which has been caused by strike action of the character which was detailed in that article. The editorial of Wednesday, 3 October, paints a frightening picture. The editorial continues: 
At the moment major strikes that are producing near-chaos in certain areas of national life include those by technicians in charge of navigation and landing equipment at Sydney and Canberra Airports, by builders' labourers in Sydney, by mail officers at Sydney Mail Exchange, and by the power industry unions in New South Wales. 
The editorial goes on to state: 
Other strikes during September and August have affected Queensland's mental hospitals, Sydney's electric trains, the Commonwealth Railways, cement works, cleaners, some wharves, tug crews and brickworkers 
One can add from one's personal knowledge that in Victoria in recent times we have had a strike by storemen and packers which affected supplies in supermarkets and other retailing establishments, a shortage of beer brought about by a beer strike and a deprivation of full mail supplies. Although the strike in this regard was centred in Sydney it had its impact right throughout the community. These strikes are part and parcel of what we have at the present time on the industrial scene in Australia. What does this Bill do to meet those problems? Whatever be its virtues, it does not deal with these particular matters. What we have is the claim by the Government that it knows best how to deal with industrial disputation. In fact, what we have at the present time when there is industrial conflict is a hollow protestation that there is nothing that the Government can do or should do, except in the notorious case involving the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  in which he gave aid, comfort and direction to the 35-Hour Week Committee which is still limiting Sydney's power supplies. In short, the Government is fiddling while the nation fumes. This Bill is of a different character to the Bill which was introduced earlier this year. It is a Bill which seeks to improve an existing system, to change features introduced last year which are claimed not to have been effective and to give effect to some long established dogmas of the present Government. 
I have indicated that the second reading of the Bill will not be opposed, but in the Committee stage of the Bill the Opposition will move amendments which it hopes will improve the measure. These amendments are not hasty and ill considered reactions to a measure simply because it is a Government measure. They represent a proposal to which a lot of time and attention have been given. The amendments are designed to improve the working of the system. It is hoped that they will be viewed by the Government in that light. In the course of his second reading speech, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  listed a number of matters covered by the Bill. He omitted to mention some and I just mention a few of the areas in which amendments will be directed. For example, he omitted to mention the change in the provision which enables persons who are dismissed by an employer to claim that they should not have been dismissed because any misconduct which is alleged against them is misconduct of a character which was merely legitimate activity in the pursuit of industrial interests.. 
The Bill seeks to widen the basis upon which a unionist can object to dismissal and to place the onus of proof, if there be any prosecution of an employer for dismissing a member of an organisation, upon the employer. The Opposition believes that that provision, as worded, imposes too heavy an onus and indicated too wide a field of activity. While not objecting to the widening which has been proposed, the Opposition seeks to limit the activities to lawful activities and to change the onus of proof to where it should be in prosecutions of this character- to those who would prosecute. The Opposition will seek to change the provision of the Bill in order to ensure that there is a full authority of the Full Bench of the Court in all matters of general application. The Opposition will seek to amend the Bill to ensure that the concept of the public interest is retained in those circumstances in which a question arises as to whether an agreement is to be certified. The Opposition will seek to retain those provisions which at least give to union officials the conduct and the control of negotiations in which the union is involved. The Opposition will seek to maintain provisions which it has maintained since 1972 to ensure majority control under officially conducted ballots when amalgamation proposals are raised. The Opposition will also seek to ensure that in appearances before the Industrial Courts, as distinct from appearances before the Industrial Commission, the appropriate representative to move on behalf of the Government will be the Attorney-General and not the Minister for Labour. 
The Opposition has indicated its general attitude to this Bill. We look forward to a debate in Committee in which the particular matters to which I have adverted and other matters which will arise as the debate proceeds can be aired and considered in the traditional way in which debates in Committee are conducted in this chamber. The Opposition considers that this Bill has a number of inadequacies. But it recognises that the Government is seeking to improve the Bill, to remedy areas which experience has shown may be defective and to give effect to certain policies which we have long known to be part of the Labor Party's platform. The Opposition will approach its task in Committee constructively. 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noticed recently that in discussion about the Senate disallowing certain legislation pressmen and leader writers have indicated that it is not right for the Senate to disallow certain types of legislation? As one who upholds the rights of the Senate, I ask him whether it is not a fact that the Senate has whatever right the Constitution gives to it to disallow legislation. Is it not a fact that the Senate derives its constitution and existence in the same way as the other House of Parliament insofar as it is elected by the people of this country by vote? Is it not a fact that the Senate has the authority to carry out its constitutional rights? In view of  Senator O  'Byrne's question in relation to education, would the Minister take it upon himself to educate the Press about the real rights and authority of the Senate? 
-My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the new appointments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Were those appointments made on the advice of the Minister for Labour or the Attorney-General? Are two of the appointees long term and well known members of the Australian Labor Party and serving executive members of the Australian Labor Party? If so, how does the Government justify the appointment of active political executives to a commission in which objectivity and impartiality on the industrial issues which come before it, particularly when many of them, such as the 35-hour week, have express political backing, are essential? Why should not a cynical public regard the appointments as a deplorable example of jobs for the boys? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it correct, as I read in this morning's Press, that he stated that the Government would not shift the camp off the lawn in front of Parliament House? Is this an indication that the Government does not have any regard for the aesthetic setting of Parliament House? If such is the case, does the Government take any exception to other Australians also using that area by depositing their caravans there and resting? 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate not agree that there is well founded information that 'Blue Poles', the so called work of art, was executed by Pollock and others while they were drunk? Has he seen reproductions of this work? If so, does he not agree that one would have to be drunk to make such a painting? Will he therefore ask that 'Blue Poles' be displayed in the new art gallery in a new section to be known as shickery art? As it is reported that this expensive splurge of $US2m was recommended by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Mollison  will the Leader of the Government in the Senate recommend to the Government that these 2 art selectors for the National Gallery be replaced so that we do not make any more purchases with Australian taxpayers' money of shickery art? 
I think it was an ironical reply by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to a question which I asked, but in the course of that reply he stated that he welcomed my suggestion that the Government should give attention to waiving the fines imposed on those persons who, subsequent to 2 December, had not paid their fines. I make it perfectly clear that I feel that any policy of waiving fines, as a general rule and without the traditional exercise of the prerogative on grounds which are established, is completely wrong. The tenor of my question was, and the burden of any subsequent remarks which I may make will be, by way of condemnation of what has occurred. 
I desire to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. Was the Prime Minister's statement in China that With no nation is our aspiration symbolised more than it is with China' the considered opinion of the Labor Government? As China is a communist country, did  Mr Whitlam  mean that Australia is in accord with the communist philosophy? If he believes in this silly statement, how does he reconcile the fact that China does not have any opposition party and does not have unions or allow strikes? As  Mr Whitlam  now believes that it is a case of all the way with Chou En-lai, does he not consider this dangerous because of the fact that he said 'It was the most momentus mission ever to have left Australia '? 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader in the Government in the Senate. Has he noted the report in this morning's newspapers that the Prime Minister decided that the Governor-General will not attend the wedding of Princess Anne? Is not the statement that this country would be inconvenienced greatly by a few days absence of the Governor-General a statement that has no real foundation? Is this a further move to reduce the stature and importance of the Queen in Australia and so make more progress towards making this country a republic with all the way with Chou En-lai's friend,  Mr Whitlam,  as president? 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate not consider that the confiscation of 2 Taiwanese fishing vessels is a very harsh penalty to impose in view of his generous treatment regarding the fines of the Taiwanese fishing captains? Will he consider extending that generosity to the release of those fishing vessels? 
I believe that I should enter into the debate because I think I can fairly claim to have been associated with town planning in Australia for longer than anybody else here. I had the great privilege and honour of bringing in the first town plan for the city of Mackay which initiated, I understand, town planning in Australia. I have continued to be associated with local government for a period of years, and I have also had the pleasure of taking part in the preparation of an amended town plan for the city of Mackay. This is a subject that requires a lot of thinking and imagination. When a plan is drawn for a place it is important to do the very best job in order to present the best qualities of a particular area. 
There has been quite a bit of discussion about the Canberra town plan. Some years ago I was a member of a parliamentary committee which dealt with the Canberra town plan. My aim, like the aim of all senators and members, is to do the best for this city and, as a consequence, for the nation. So we have arrived at a situation today as to how we will reach a decision on where the new parliament house will be sited. I came into this chamber with the intention of supporting a joint meeting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. I had talked to various senators about the debate that had taken place and I had listened to some speeches before I came back to the chamber. As one who has always stood very strongly for the Senate as a chamber, I feel that I must change the opinion which I had and come down on the side of this chamber as a House expressing its view. I feel that the case for the joint sitting, as presented now, has some weaknesses. To me, it seemed a simple solution at first. Having heard some of the views which have been expressed, I feel that it is probably not as effective as it might be. 
I was reminded by  Senator Webster  of an occasion in my Party when a decision was made by the 2 chambers as to where the parliament house should be sited. At that time the 2 Houses had a different view. I remember that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  told parliamentarians of the joint parties that, as far as he was concerned, as they could not make up their minds, it was to be Camp Hill. I thought that that was a very autocratic attitude to adopt. Remembering that, it seems to me that if a decision is made jointly by parliamentarians, without the power of a parliamentary enactment, it cannot have any real force. That struck a point in my mind which indicated that there is a weakness in the case for a joint sitting, more particularly if it is held outside the parliamentary chambers.  Senator Wright  has on the notice paper a Bill relating to this issue at the moment I am not in favour of his Bill as it stands because it presents a point of view that the new parliament house should be on Camp Hill. I am in favour of Capital Hill. In view of what I have been reminded of by  Senator Webster,  the very fact of there being a Bill will give it more of an authority, something which must be conveyed, and will give it some parliamentary strength. If we have a legislative enactment, it gives the Senate a voice as the Senate. It also gives us the support and backing of legislative enactment. So, under those circumstances, I am compelled to come down on the side of the Senate making a separate decision. 
I am quite convinced that Capital Hill is the correct choice for the site. Let me state my reasons. Firstly, the city of Canberra is a parliamentary city. Parliament will always be the dominant feature for its existence and its site. Therefore, as people come into this city, the building which should stand out clearly in their vision is the parliament house. As a result, it needs to be given some eminence. I believe that the way in which that can be done is by placing it on Capital Hill. Certain difficulties were suggested to me by the National Capital Development Commission. I refer to the parking of motor cars on the top of the hill. One eminent planner and architect said: 'It is a very simple matter. All you do is have car parking space at the base and put in a tunnel. People walk in and ride to the top in an elevator'. The solution is very simple when one has the right type of people to advise. I feel that that position would give the new parliament house an eminence, and I believe that it would fulfil all that any town planner would desire- the eminence of parliament house would make Canberra appear to be a parliamentary city. 
Let us consider the alternatives before us: A joint sitting and  Senator Wright's  Bill which would be a parliamentary enactment. I am not in favour of  Senator Wright's  Bill as it stands but I think his purpose in introducing it has more merit than I conceded a first. As a consequence, I feel that we should reject the joint meeting until his Bill can be discussed. We should plump for a legislative enactment. When his Bill is discussed those of us who are in favour of Capital Hill can move an amendment saying that we favour Capital Hill. Under those circumstances I have changed my mind on the issue. I now come down on the side of the Senate expressing its opinion as a House. 

 -Mr President- 

Yes,  Mr President.  I think the amendment moved by  Senator Prowse  will really bring about some action in a very quick manner. Reference has been made to the delay in arriving at a decision on the site of the new and permanent parliament house. The House of Representatives has made a decision as a single House. What is wrong with  Senator Prowse  's amendment, which would mean that we would express right now that we are in favour of, as his motion puts it, the Capital Hill site? 

 - Senator Wright has proposed that an Act of Parliament should be passed in relation to his matter. There is no reason why immediately that  Senator Prowse  's amendment is carried we cannot enact the amendment in a piece of legislation. If this were done it would be on the stocks and on the business of the Senate. Arguments have been put forward about whether a decision on this matter should be delayed. I think that the amendment put forward by  Senator Prowse  concerning the siting of the new parliament house is the quickest way by which a decision will be reached so far as we in this chamber are concerned. There is no reason why, immediately  Senator Prowse  's amendment is put through,  Senator Wright's  Bill cannot be amended and the site specified as Capital Hill instead of Camp Hill. I am prepared to support the amendment put forward by  Senator Prowse  because I think it is the quickest way of getting a decision. As I have said, immediately the amendment is passed we could then introduce a parliamentary enactment such as  Senator Wright  proposes. 
It has been suggested that I have been galloping inside and outside this chamber. This is a very important matter which is not being considered on party lines. We are sitting here as individuals. The purpose of this debate is to convince individual senators which site should be selected. If anybody can bring forth a good argument I hope that my mind will never be shut to it. 
-The Special Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  when replying earlier- I know that he would not do this maliciously- said that I spoke of 2 irresponsible people having purchased the painting 'Blue Poles'. If he was referring to any debate today, he has mixed me up with another senator who did use that expression. I mention that today; I did not use that expression. 
I have listened to this debate with a great deal of interest. I propose to speak on the point  Senator Wright  brought forth about that piece of shickery art. But firstly I wish to comment on the contribution made by  Senator Byrne.  We should derive a lot of satisfaction from what  Senator Byrne  said because I think that his contribution today from a purely parliamentary point of view was first rate. It indicated clearly the rights and responsibilities of this Senate. One of the things that people forget, particularly the juvenile Press that we have about the country today, is that this Senate derives its constitution from the people of this country and it derives its election from the votes of the people of this country- the same people who elect members to the other chamber. The Senate was specially designed not only to look after the interests of the States but also to review legislation. It has always been the contention that the Senate should give a more deliberate consideration to the legislation of this country. If the Senate is doing that, as I believe it is, it is fulfilling its proper role. But in certain respects the idiotic Press and other sections of the media which continually castigate the Senate because of some alteration of legislation, some delay for further consideration or for some rejection of legislation, forget that it is the right and the responsibility of the Senate to do so if it so desires. 
Those of us who have a true sense of public duty believe that no one should do these things capriciously; that members of the Senate should act because they believe sincerely in what they are doing. If the Senate chamber takes action, instead of being criticised it should be complimented for doing its job properly. There is no question that a great amount of legislation is being poured through the other place almost as though through a sausage machine. Legislation is being forced through that chamber but there is no reason why the Senate should not take a reasonable time to examine it. The quantity of legislation coming from the other place is such that it defies proper examination. Why, even the staff who bring us Bills and other documents these days say: 'Here is another bundle. I do not know how you can read it all.' A man would need a reading machine to get through a fraction of what is coming into his office these days. 
I do not know whether that would be so. If we had something automatic that could assimilate this information we may be able to overcome this problem. But for human beings the position is impossible. Therefore, as a senator, I thank  Senator Byrne  for raising this matter and making such a fine contribution with respect to the Senate and its work. 

 Senator Wright referred to an item in the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973 relating to an appropriation of $1,959,500 for the acquisition of art. I have already entered into the controversy about this piece of shickery art known as 'Blue Poles'. I have always called it shickery art because I think that people who paint in this manner must be a bit under the weather. It has been made clear from contributions that we have had in this place- the man who makes this assertion insists that he is right- that Pollock, with the support of a cobber, walked about in a drunken stupor, stamped on paint on a canvas and ultimately produced the painting 'Blue Poles'. It was even stated that Pollock had a knife, indicating that he may have been going to commit suicide. This recalls to my mind what I have often thought about people who indulge in this so-called art- they must be a little bit off balance if not shickered to create such work. Despite all we have heard about it, we find that this painting has been purchased by Australia for such a remarkably high price. 
It was rather interesting to hear  Senator Turnbull  's contribution in this regard. He referred to comments by various people in the United States of America. There is no question that we have been made to look a bunch of suckers in falling for this purchase. I know that all manner of statements have been made, including the comment that the man who sold it would like to buy it back. But, of course, anybody who knows anything about selling knows that glamour stories are circulated to make it appear that purchases are sensible. It is suggested that Australia was sensible when it bought this painting for $US2m. To my way of thinking expenditure of this amount of money on the painting 'Blue Poles' is absolutely disgraceful. We are an Australian people and there is no reason why we cannot have an international outlook on such things as art, but I believe that primarily the national Parliament should encourage the development of Australian artists. The amount spent on this one item would have gone a long way to assisting the purchase of a great number of Australian pieces of art and encouraging Australian artists. This would have meant much more to this country than this piece of art. I know that a lot of passion is involved in these matters. Some people love to say: 'Oh, isn't it wonderful', and so on. 
That is right- it has to be something different. Yet if one asked the majority of these people what some of these works of art meant, they would not know. Just to show honourable senators what happens, if I remember rightly it was in this city of Canberra, or somewhere not very far away, that a young child was fooling around with paints on a canvas. He was just mucking around. What happened? As a joke one of the parents put it into a competition. It won the prize. I cannot remember what the judges said about it, but quite possibly they said: 'This person has great ability'. But it was put in as a joke and it won. 
It is a rather strange ability when someone is fooling around with something, does not know what he is doing, and has it called a work of art. Recently one of these great contemporary works of art was put into an exhibition. The people who hung it apparently were great art critics and said it was something good. When the artist came along he found that it was hung upside down. It goes to show that there is a lot of nonsense about a lot of this so called contemporary art. For us as a nation to fall for this sort of stuff is a great shame from the national point of view. It is a great shame that we have spent this amount of money in bringing 'Blue Poles' to this country. We could have done a great deal in the encouragement of our own Australian artists if we had concentrated on building up a first class selection of Australian works of art so that we, at least, in our national Parliament could make our people feel that there is an art consciousness among our artists. Therefore I support  Senator Wright's  contention that this item should be postponed. 
-I have listened very keenly to the debate on this issue because it is an issue which was before this chamber not so long ago and the Senate then rejected it. It was very well debated at the time. On that occasion I used the opportunity to quote quite extensively from the constitutional discussions which ultimately resulted in the initiation of an Australian Parliament. It should be remembered that the Constitution of Australia is based not on the House of Representatives but on the Senate. If it had not been possible to secure agreement on the establishment of the Senate there would not have been an Australian Parliament. The reason for the discussions was to determine the basis of representation and it was decided that the States had to have equal representation, otherwise the smaller States would have been swamped by the more populous States. Honourable senators will remember that the basis of what I put forward on the earlier occasion was that the Senate is a States House. Honourable senators here represent States. 
Now we have the desire on the part of the Government to bring in another aspect, that is, that Senate representation shall be given to the Territories also. This strikes at the very heart of what brought about the initiation of the Senate and I think that when we start moving in such a direction as is now proposed we are taking a very serious step. The Territories are not States. The argument has been used: What about the number of people? But then we have unequal numbers in the States. The States did not get representation by senators on a population basis; they got it because they were States. Therefore I cannot see that we as a chamber should countenance in the slightest degree the suggestion that this whole basis of representation should be changed. I know it is very easy to say that the people here and the people there should have better representation by bringing in senators, as is now proposed for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Those people do have representation in the House of Representatives, which has a different basis. Their representation is based on the number of electors in each State being divided into electorates. As a consequence the more populous States have more members in the House of Representatives. 
Because of the limitation that this chamber is a States House, the solution to the problem of representation for the Territories is that if the Territories do not have sufficient representation there should be more representation of them in the House of Representatives where they are entitled to it. If we say that because of their population and because they are Territories we have to widen their representation and bring them into this chamber the questions are then raised: If representation is not on a States basis where do we stop? How far do we go? We have the Australian Capital Territory and we have the Northern Territory. Supposing we stop there. What do the people in the other Territories say? Are they not entitled to Senate representation too? We have more Territories than those two. For instance, what about the people of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands? Are they not entitled to representation here if the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are? 
They are entitled to it if you say that territories are to be treated on the same basis as the States. What about the people of Norfolk Island? 
I think I have made a better study of the Senate than anybody in this chamber. 
-What about Norfolk Island? 
No, of course I do not. 
-What about Norfolk Island? That is another Territory. 
And what about Heard and McDonald Islands. They are territories. 
We are talking of territories such as the Heard and McDonald Islands. What about the Coral Sea island territories and the Antarctic territory? 
Just a minute. Where will we stop? If it is a matter of bringing more territories into the Senate, on what basis do we do it? The Constitution provides that this House shall be comprised of so many senators from each of the States. Once we break down that situation I believe we are doing very serious damage to this chamber. I feel that the States would consider that the election of senators to represent the Territories would in certain ways weaken their strength in the Senate. 
It is not nonsense because the Territories are on an entirely different basis. The Australian Capital Territory has a representative in the House of Representatives. Who can say that electors in that Territory are not very close to the minds of members of this Parliament? We are situated in the area. Because of contact that public servants and others in this area have with us, do honourable senators opposite mean to tell me that this area has not a great influence on us? Yet the Government proposes to give them more strength by allowing them to elect 2 members to the Senate. We either stand by the very basis on which the Senate was established or we destroy it by doing what is asked. This move must not be countenanced in any form because it might possibly be an expedient to help a government or a party through some situation. That is the sort of thing which we should resist. I believe that we should look at this matter on the highest basis so far as the Senate is concerned. Because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  probably has not a very strong regard for this chamber is no reason why any move should be made to denigrate it in any shape or form. 
It is right. I know what he thinks about the Senate and about senators. I have been a senator for quite a long time and I know things that have been said in the past. No one can say that in the years that I have been a senator I have not stood for the Sente. I came into the Senate with a determination to use any power in my capacity to make it a better chamber. I believe that credit is due to those senators who over a period have worked to make this chamber a much better chamber today than it possibly was before. In fairness, I believe that generally speaking the quality of the Senate has risen considerably. I believe too that senators now have a much better outlook and that the Senate now stands higher in the minds of the people than possibly it did before. 
I travel around the States. In the last election campaign I was most interested to hear the approbation which came from people about the work of the Senate, its committees and so on. I think that we as senators should be proud of this chamber. When we look at its history, the reason it was introduced and the basis on which it has been developed, we should have in our minds that we should preserve the Senate as it was originally intended and as it is presently functioning, that is, as a States House. Once we depart from that we can lead ourselves into very dangerous areas. 
The honourable senator may laugh about it. Mention was made of the other Territories. Once we change the reason for the establishment of the Senate- to protect the States- and allow the Territories to be represented, we do not know where things will end. If all the Territories are represented after a period, ultimately, with governments giving more and more representation to them, the States could be outvoted, and that would destroy the purpose for which this chamber was established. I oppose the Bill because I believe that it is a downward movement so far as the Senate is concerned, and so far as relations with and representation of the States are concerned. In those circumstances I oppose the Bill, as I opposed the previous Bill. I sincerely hope that when the vote is taken the majority will be in opposition to the Bill. 
-! ask for leave to amend my notice of motion. 
I desire to ask the Minister representing the Treasurer a question. In his reply to  Senator Durack  relating to the gold tax  Senator Willlesee  stated that he considered the reason for the removal of the tax was the persuasive arguments used by the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  on the Treasurer,  Mr Crean.  Is it a fact that according to newspaper reports this morning the decision to lift the gold tax was not made by  Mr Crean  but was made by the Caucus of the Australian Labor Party? Is he not proud of the democratic rights of the Caucus when he says it was the Minister who made the change? 
I move: 
That the amendment of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (e) of subsection ( 1 ) of section 8 of the Sewerage Rates Ordinance 1968-1972, contained in section 16 of the Sewerage Rates Ordinance 1973, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 23 of 1973, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1972, be disallowed. 
As the motion was expressed originally it would have disallowed the general increase in sewerage rates for all types of premises. My purpose however is to disallow only the increase relating to business premises, whereby hotels, motels and other establishments will have to pay $25 as against $15 previously, for the first toilet unit, and $50 as against $15 previously, for each additional unit. The motion as amended will achieve this purpose. The Seat of Government (Administration) Act empowers the Senate to disallow any part of an ordinance, and this has always been interpreted to mean that part of a section of an ordinance can be disallowed. I regret that the wording of the motion is now very complicated but this is necessary to precisely express the purpose which I want to achieve. 
I speak on behalf of the business people, that is, the people with motels and hotels in the city of Canberra. This matter is outside my realm of Queensland but, as we stated last night in debating the question of Senate representation, it is for parliamentarians generally and for honourable senators in particular to look after the interests of the Territories. So I bring this matter forward. 
There was no occasion for it, as the Senate agreed last night. In this case we see an anomaly which has been created by the restructuring of the sewerage charges for the city of Canberra. It is interesting to note that previously the average householder paid $15 per annum for his sewerage pedestal. The charge has now gone up to $25. For hotels and motels the charge was previously $15 but it has now gone up to $25 for the first sewerage system in the hotel and $50 for every additional pedestal. To my way of thinking this strikes a blow at the tourist industry in this city. I am not arguing whether the rates are low or high, generally speaking. It is a matter of the relativity of charges for the resident and business community to those which apply to hotels and motels. I think it is possible that the people of Canberra have been spoon-fed for quite a long time by various governments. It is quite possible, from the information which I have, that they are getting off very cheaply even in the present situation. But I think there must be some relationship between what the resident pays and what the visitor pays when he comes here as a tourist. There is no question but that this high charge will be passed on to the people who come as tourists into this capital city of ours which has a particular advantage and attraction in being the national capital. Many people come here in order to see the workings of this institution and the surroundings which have been laid out at considerable government expense. 
Even now we notice in the gallery a number of children. Continually we see school parties coming into this city in order to see the Parliament and Canberra. Is it right that these people in hotes and motels should be slugged at a much greater rate than the ordinary resident and that this charge should be passed on to children such as those in the gallery and tourists generally? We talk about the value of the tourist industry. As one who has been associated with it for over 40 years that is one of the reasons why I am speaking on this matter. If I remember rightly, this Government at the last election said that it was keen on the tourist industry. Here we find a striking illustration of where the Government is really slugging the tourist industry instead of encouraging it. If it is suitable to charge the ordinary citizen only half the usual rate for sewerage, then surely people using sewerage on a large scale should be entitled to at least the same rate if not a lower rate because of quantity use. I have served for a long time in local government. For over 30 years I have served as Mayor and as an alderman of my city of Mackay which was one of the first cities in Queensland to be sewered. I know that a great charge on the operation of the sewerage system relates to the amount of water which is used. 
If anybody can tell me that people in a hotel or motel use more water for each pedestal than people do at home, then I will take a lot of convincing. In a home there is usually not only a couple but also very often a family. These people very often utilise the one system. As a consequence quite a considerable amount of water is used. But let us look at what happens in a hotel or motel with the average person who comes here. Most of us have travelled. When we go to a city and book in at a hotel or motel how long do we stay in our room? We are not there very much at all because we are sightseeing, visiting people, or doing other things outside the hotel or motel. Therefore the water consumption for each person would be a lot less in a hotel or motel than it is in a private home. The Lakeside Hotel is a new hotel which has just been built. It is a high class type of motel. I think there are about 274 units. Because it is new and because it is a high priced utility in the tourist industry I think its occupancy runs at between 30 per cent to 40 per cent. Here we are asking that hotel to pay $50 for each unit in each room. Probably 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the rooms are not being occupied. 
I think that a very warped view is being taken in relation to these charges for hotels and motels in this community. An occupancy of 70 per cent for a hotel is a pretty good figure. Even then, 30 per cent of the rooms are not being utilised as far as the toilet amenities are concerned. Under those circumstances this seems a very undue and heavy charge in comparison with what other people in this community are paying. Under those circumstances this is something which should be restructured. For that reason I have moved for the disallowance of that provision. Over a period of years the aim was, and it still is, to lift the quality of tourist accommodation. One of the greatest moves forward made in this direction was the supplying of amenities such as toilet facilities in each room for the tourist. At one time one had to trot down the long corridor somewhere looking for the bathroom, the toilet or some amenity like that. Today because of this modern trend of lifting the standard we find that our hotels and motels have given this bathroom and toilet facility to each room so that people have this modern convenience in a modern way. This is what the tourist industry is demanding all over the world. If we are to pick out the tourist industry and slug it by comparison with what is paid by others, that will be the wrong way to go about encouraging the hotel and motel industry to lift its standards even further. I do not want to take much more time for we have been running late as a result of other intrusions that have taken place, but I do think that we should encourage a high standard of accommodation in this city and in the Commonwealth generally. I feel that the Commonwealth Government's decision to slug the industry twice as much a unit as the ordinary householder pays is a very retrograde step. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Is the motion seconded? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate following upon a disgraceful incident which took place last week in the other House when the Prime Minister stated that people, by their conduct, were infringing on the hospitality which he extended at a function in Parliament House last week. Is that hospitality not paid for by the taxpayers of this country, not by the Prime Ministerthe impression which he gave? Is the rumour which is circulating correct, namely, that 200 gallons of champagne were drunk on the trip to China and was it French champagne? 
1 ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of an accusation by the Prime Minister that a man who is said to be a sober member of Parliament was drunk, can the Leader advise me of the redress which I would have in the Senate if, after the next parliamentary function, the Prime Minister in Parliament accused me of being drunk, despite the fact that I never go beyond drinking pineapple juice, lemonade or orangeade? 
-The only thing I have in mind in regard to the proposed sitting hours concerns the proposal to start at 10.15 a.m. on Thursdays. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  said, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee meets on that day and I wonder whether there will be sufficient time for the Committee regularly to complete its deliberations. It seems to me that the timing is a little tight. In those circumstances I would like to see the Senate meet a little later on Thursdays. 
In view of the debate which has taken place I think that so far as the Senate is concerned honourable senators should make a stand to rebut the stupid stuff which is being put in the Press and which no doubt is slanted with a determination to show that the Senate is not doing its job. I think that the Senate has done a very good job since the Budget was delivered. The fact that certain legislation has been delayed indicates the amount of work which is coming forward. I have looked at the statistics for the period from and including 1966. There has been only one year, 1968, in which more Bills have been put through than have been put through this year up to this moment. In that year 157 Bills were passed. This year we already have reached 140 Bills. It is quite apparent that this year the Senate will pass more legislation than in any other year since 1966. This indicates to me that the Senate is doing the job. 
I can quite understand that the Government would like to get certain legislation through more quickly, but the Senate has a duty to perform. Whilst, by the use of a majority, legislation might be guillotined through more quickly in another chamber than here, from the pure point of democratic process it is the right of the people to have this chamber engage in deliberate debate and give consideration to each piece of legislation that comes before it. A Government senator said that we members of the Opposition will have to give an accounting of ourselves when we go before the people. As far as I am concerned, as a senator and one who stands up for the Senate, I do not think we will have anything to worry about on that score. I think that many people are grateful that they have a Senate which is prepared to do the job properly as far as legislation is concerned. I make no apology for our performance to date. 
As was pointed out by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Senator DrakeBrockman),  the Estimates Committees have been functioning for several years now. Establishing those committees was a very important development in the work of the Senate. I think that the Senate today is functioning in a manner that puts it far above what it was some years ago. The Senate today is fulfilling, to a far greater degree than ever before, the objective for which it was created. Therefore, apart from the point I raised about the suggested times, despite the vaporings of certain pressmen- special feature writers whom we rarely see in this chamber- the Senate is carrying out its work properly and is doing its work at a pretty fast rate. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the dishonest statements being published by the media regarding the speed of the Senate's work, would the Leader of the Government consider setting up an all party committee of the Senate to supervise untruthful statements made by various sections of the media relating to the work of the Senate? Would he give to the committee power to move to bar from the Press gallery any representative of the media proved to be responsible for publishing untrue or biased reports of the Senate's work? 
I oppose this Bill because I feel that it has been introduced probably as a result of some small argument in previous times in relation to some part of the coastline of Australia, and more particularly, I think, in relation to oil. I think that this legislation is an indication of the Federal Government trying to reduce the power and the rights of the States and it is an attempt to build the Federal Parliament into a much greater structure at the expense of the States. I feel that this chamber owes its existence to the fact that the States would not accept the setting up of a Commonwealth Parliament until such time as it included a chamber in which they had equal voting rights, as is the situation in the Senate. It seems to me that there is a view taken that we in Canberra have a wonderful way of handling things and that we are much superior in the way in which we handle things compared with the States. We seem to exhibit a superior knowledge and we are much more capable of doing these things. Of course, this is a very big country. I feel that it is much better to have a Federal system in which the States look at the smaller matters and the Commonwealth has the role of oversight. 
So far as this legislation is concerned, the point brought out this afternoon in the debate which attracted my mind- I think  Senator Durack  was speaking at the time- related to legislation that had been passed in countries such as the United States. Apparently the United States has not solved the legal problems because I understand that more legal actions are being taken in that country than was the case before the legislation was passed. Let us look at the situation in Australia. I think we have been pretty free of legal argument in this country under our present set-up. If we have managed to get through in that way over the years, what is wrong with our trying to carry on in that way? I think the solution to this problem is people getting together and having discussions. There is no reason why the Commonwealth and the States cannot work together in this respect. Even if this legislation does go through there will be difficulties. There is no question about that. There is no doubt also that legal argument will take place over a long period. 
It has been said in this place that if we had a closer knowledge of these things we would not say many of the things we do say. As has been mentioned, my State of Queensland has a particular interest in this legislation because of the unusual formation of our coastline. I refer to the Great Barrier Reef which is the world's greatest wonder, stretching for well over 1 ,000 miles and encompassing a very extensive area because a large section of it is very wide. Many people have spoken about this reef but they would not know very much about it. There was a very striking illustration of this in the Parliament a couple of years or so ago when a debate took place on the Great Barrier Reef. I discovered that most of the people who spoke about it were people from States other than Queensland. I was not able to take part in that debate, although I have probably been associated with the reef longer than anyone else in this Parliament. It would be more than 40 years ago that I began to help to develop the Great Barrier Reef tourist industry. It is something in which I have taken a very keen interest. I have been over the reef and looked at it and I have helped behind the scenes in getting some of the areas proclaimed national parks. 
We hear talk in this Parliament and outside the Parliament, as well as from federal authorities, about the oil leases on the reef. We heard of what a terrible thing Queensland did when it gave leases for the finding of oil and we heard about the damage which could be done and so on. Santa Barbara, or whatever place it is in the United States, was always quoted as a case. These things are built up as being of terrific importance and develop a great fear. Why? Every day in the year there is a much greater risk for the Great Barrier Reef than that. What would the people of Canberra know about it. They would know nothing at all. That risk is the shipping which goes up and down the coastline every day of the year. I refer to the oil tankers. If an oil tanker were caught in one of the islands of the Reef, or the Reef itself, it would cause a damage far transcending what any oil well would do. Honourable senators should not say that this is idle representation. 
A few years ago I discussed this matter with a man associated with the shipping of oil. He said, in effect: 'Yes, there is no question, that is the greatest risk as far as the Great Barrier Reef is concerned'. Only a little over a week ago I attended a Comalco function in Brisbane and a gentleman associated with the transport of oil in shipping said to me exactly the same thing. He said: 'Of course that is the great worry, that is the big risk'. We get certain things magnified out of all proportion and yet things of a much greater risk nobody even talks about. Therefore I think that these situations require people who are on the spot, people who have some knowledge of the factors involved and people who are associated closely with the problems. I consider that the control of the whole of this situation from Canberra would be a very bad move indeed. I think that the allocation of the power of the States at the moment in regard to this issue is much better than the way which is now suggested. As I said before, the people of Canberra, the parliamentary people and the public servants, no doubt think that they can do things better than we can in the individual States. The people in Canberra should remember that we all come from those States and the people who run those States are people like ourselves in the main. I am not one of those who are prepared to see Canberra get every power. 
I believe that the safest system we can have is a true federal system. Although democracy is not the perfect way of running a country, it is the safest way. It is possibly not the most effective way of running a country but it is the safest way. It has a lumbering process about it but is the safest way. Therefore I look upon the preservation of the State rights in this matter as having a safety factor to it and presenting a better aspect than passing over the whole of these powers to the Commonwealth. I am here in this States House as a States man and I will stand for the rights of the States in this matter and vote against this legislation. 
My question really impinges on the portfolios of several Ministerspossibly the Minister for Trade, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and the AttorneyGeneral. Therefore, I ask the Attorney-General this question: Is he aware that the International Air Transport Association agency committee, which is the organisation representing the international airlines, which are mostly government owned and which include Qantas Airways Ltd, our Government airline, makes an unusual requirement of travel agents who seek IATA agency accreditation? Is he aware that such applicant travel agents are required to make airline reservations, without payment of commissions, for such international airlines, including our Government airline, Qantas? Is he aware that applicant travel agents must perform this work,  possibly for several years, without payment until such time as the agent reaches a certain annual productivity of business, when IATA may condescend to appoint that agent as an IATA agent? Does he agree that IATA, like other business organisations, should, by inspection and investigation, make its own assessment of the capacity of a prospective agent? Does he not agree that no Australian should be asked to work for no payment for such international airlines? Is he aware that IATA continually holds a threat over accredited agents that they may lose their agency if production is not up to the figure which IATA has in its mind? Is he aware that, as now publicised, international airlines intend to increase considerably the quota of business demanded from accredited agents? Does he not agree that the imposition of quotas of business required is using undue pressure tactics on agents? 
-Not having had an opportunity to speak in the debate on the Budget, which has not yet been finalised, I though I should take the opportunity to speak on a few aspects of these Appropriation Bills. As I said at the time the Budget was delivered, I think it is a very colourless production. It is something which did not stir the nation as the new Government thought it would. I think that as we are drawing away from it more people are realising that it is a colourless Budget. The very difficult and serious problem which we have before us is inflation. The Government has failed to face up to it and to tackle it. I know that all sorts of ideas are put forward for tackling inflation, but as far as this Government is concerned the 3 simple things which should be kept in mind are: Cutting down on spending in areas where it is not necessary, not encouraging overspending in certain areas and, more particularly, encouraging production. Unless there is sufficient production there will be more forces working towards inflation. It is only commonsense to realise that if goods are short there is bidding for them. As a consequence the price goes up. Honourable senators will find that it does not matter what the article is, the price will go up. Today we are finding, as has been mentioned by other speakers, a serious shortage of goods in various areas. Even over the counter people cannot get ordinary commodities. I think it was  Senator Webster  who mentioned serious shortages in the building industry. I ask honourable senators to think how this filters through to the community. 
No. It is a matter of shortage of materials. My own state of Queensland is an example. I noticed where people were paying $6 when bidding for a bag of cement. Therefore encouragment should be given for greater production. I have not heard one appeal from this Government for greater production. There has been no encouragement. The Government has taken away the taxation incentive on industrial equipment. That was granted as an encouragement for production. We find the situation is developing in more serious ways as each week goes by. I feel that as long as this situation remains inflation will tend to increase. This is a problem which the Government has failed to tackle in its Budget. In my opinion this should have been foremost in its thinking and in its action. The Budget presented to us completely failed to cope with that situation. As a matter of fact many of the Budget items caused an increase in the cost of goods. That is quite apparent to many honourable members and honourable senators. Many honourable senators know the particular aspects to which I am referring where a specific tax was imposed, causing an increase in the cost of goods. 
Yes. They are outside my line because I am a teetotaller and a non-smoker, but the honourable senator knows as well as I do that those things and other things went up in price. 
Well, the Government nas affected even the teetotal line. I remember that just after the Budget came on a storekeeper told me that a man walked in and he was furious. He said: 'I have always voted Labor, but never again. It has even put on a tax increasing the cost of the kids ' lolly water. ' That is what he called it. 
I take a lot of sugar. I take a lot of sugar in different ways because, belonging to a sweet State like the honourable senator, I like sweet things. But I think it is very important to tackle inflation. In this regard the Government has failed to face up to the situation. I know that sometimes it can be unpopular to do the right thing, but it is the Government's job to do the right thing and to do what is best for the country. As an indication of some of the things the 
Government has done I instance the air navigation charges. I tackled my own Government on this subject. I have been consistent. I think it is ludicrous the way governments- not only this Government but also previous governmentshave continually piled on air navigation charges. Of course, the story is: We are spending so much money, we have to get so much back. But by increasing these charges they in turn filter through again. It means higher costs of travel and higher air freight charges. Today a lot of goods go by air freight. But the thing which strikes me about the shortsightedness of the Government in regard to this aspect of transport is that a great deal of the civil aviation expenditure is in the major capital cities. In Victoria at Tullamarine is an overseas airport which cost a terrific lot of money. In Sydney, at the international terminal, in addition to the domestic terminal, a terrific lot of money has been spent. 
-No. In Brisbane we find the most out of date concept as far as civil aviation is concerned. But those of us from Queensland, the Northern Territory and the other distant States are expected to pay higher air fares in order to give luxury outfits for overseas terminals in those major capital cities. This is one of those aspects where we cannot get back everything we spend. It is all right saying, as I have heard one of the ex-Ministers on my side say, that people who use the air services should pay for them. That sounds all right but it is a case of getting down to a practical basis. If we carry this exercise right through we could ask: What about the motorist? Of course, the motorist pays tax on fuel but what does he pay for the upkeep of the bitumen roads which the municipalities and the developers provide and which the municipalities keep in order? Does the motorist pay for everything he gets as far as road usage is concerned? Of course he does not. But civil aviation is a good old packhorse, as we might term it, of a fast character. It is quite easy to pass these costs on. But the ridiculous thing is that we have the highest charges in the world for civil aviation. 
What we have to think of when we pile these charges on is that we are piling them on to a transportation system which not only takes our people around this country but also people who are coming to this country on business and on holidays. The development of the international travel trade is one of the things we should be encouraging very strongly. I have been associated with the development of the Great Barrier Reef for over 40 years. I have been in travel business during that time. The trend is for more Australians to go out of Australia than possibly ever before. I notice that the Government has made some small approach to try to develop the domestic tourist trade. But we have these cheap fares for people leaving Australia. What are we doing? We are piling all the costs on in order to make it more difficult for people to come into this country. We in Australia have to recognise that we are possibly further removed from the great supply of people for the tourist industry than any other country. We in this region are not surrounded by any other country. We are an island on our own. Therefore it should be our aim to make it as attractive as possible to bring people here. But it is not just a matter of people on holidays. We have to ask what it means to this country. 
At the present time we know that the accommodation industry is facing a fairly difficult period. We want more people to fill the accommodation. We are continually asking for people to build more and better accommodation. But what is the good of that if we do not have tourists to fill it. For some little time now the accommodation industry has been having a difficult time. I think that the aim of governments should be to make tourism as cheap as possible. They should make transportation cheap for people to get here and also do everything possible to encourage them to come here. Why should international travellers, and particularly Australians travelling around our own country be saddled more and more with the debts which to a very large extent are caused by expenditure on people in the capital city areas? 
I think that the Government provides only about $2m to encourage the tourist industry on an international basis. Only a small amount has been set aside to encourage further development of the domestic industry. Because of the situation that has developed, because there are so many influences causing people to leave our country, we should be spending much more than that today to try to encourage people to this country. We have put up barriers not only in the form of these increased air navigation charges, which naturally are passed on. I refer to revaluation as a result of which we have made it more costly for people to come to this country. Because of the revaluation of the Australian dollar it is much more costly for people in the United States of America to come to Australia than before. I am not talking about whether or not the Australian dollar should have been revalued; I am simply indicating that because of these difficulties we should be spending more and more money to help bring people to this country. 
I do not know of a cleaner industry than the tourist industry. There is no pollution associated with it. I do not know of a better industry and I do not know of one which gives a country more and which results in people taking away nothing. The tourist industry is one of that type. People come to our country to enjoy the scenery and local things and they leave their money behind. They take nothing from the country but the pleasure and happiness of a holiday here. Australia is a country of different aspects and I believe that it has an appeal for overseas people. The basis of the tourist industry and of holidays is that people can see different things, different places, different people and different customs. I have talked about this subject for years and I think that we do not encourage the tourist industry nearly as much as we should. All governments have failed in this regard and I think that this is a subject that we should press more strongly. I think that  Senator McAuliffe  would agree with me that our State of Queensland, with its Great Barrier Reef, its beautiful tropical vegetation and other features which people have the opportunity of enjoying, could gain to a very great extent from an increase in the tourist industry on an international basis. 
That is one of the unfortunate things. Great quantities of minerals such as coal and iron ore are going out of this country and as a result we are getting overseas credits but the matter of earning credits in this country has been lost sight of. 
Yes.  Senator Byrne  has reminded me that in the tourist industry we are losing because more money goes out of this country as a result of our people going elsewhere than is earned from people coming in. We should be working to reverse that situation so that we earn more money in this country from overseas tourists than our people spend through leaving Australia. 
I want to refer to another subject, the mining industry which has been mentioned by other honourable senators who have spoken. I think it is a matter of great regret that there has not been sufficient encouragement given to the mining industry. It is very regrettable to me that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has adopted such an attitude to the mining people. It has caused strong ill feeling. In addition, because of his statements and attitudes, people have been discouraged from looking for minerals. It takes a lot of money to find minerals and many of our smaller companies are going broke because they cannot get money. People today will not subscribe to such ventures. I know that  Senator Lillico  very ably pointed out the necessity for overseas capital to help in major efforts. 
-Senator Gair, a former Premier of Queensland, reminds me of Mount Isa Mines Ltd. It is an excellent illustration. Mount Isa is a wonderful mining area. I remember that the Premier before  Senator Gair  mentioned Mount Isa and said that it was very hard for him, as a Labor Premier, to go to Mount Isa preaching against capitalism when the Mount Isa people - 
I am sure that  Senator Gair  would agree that the Mount Isa Mines people have been a wonderful example not only because of the development of the area but because of the way that they have built amenities and have treated their employees and staff. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)-Order! 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  Mount Isa Mines has been a striking example of a wonderfully successful operation. It also has given first class conditions to its employees and staff. An overseas company, in the main, put its money into Mount Isa and waited for more than 20 years before it showed a profit. If honourable senators can tell me the name of an Australian who will put his money into a proposition and wait for over 20 years for a return I will be pleased to meet him. The average Australian would not put his money into a venture for that long. The average Australian wants a quick return. An overseas company puts its money into Mount Isa and waited for over 20 years for a profit. Now we have a wonderfully successful operation there.  Senator Gair,  a former Premier of Queensland, would know as much about it as most other honourable senators in this chamber, if not more than anybody else. That company has done a wonderful job, not only for Queensland, in providing employment in that north western part of the country. Over the years it has also done a very good job for Australia from a national point of view by selling those minerals overseas and bringing overseas money to this country. 
That is right. It created a city in the north west of Queensland. As  Senator Gair  said, the effect of that development has filtered through to other places such as Townsville which has received very direct benefits from the development of Mount Isa. Everyone who is an Australian and has the Australian spirit wants to see Australians own as much of Australia as possible but we have to be practical about these things and consider what Australians will put their money into and how long they will wait for a return. If they will not do this we just have to get somebody else to put in the money. Somebody was telling me about one of the mining shows in Western Australia. I think it was  Sir Charles  Court who said at the dme that he wanted 1 5 per cent Australian equity. But what happened when he tried to get that? No Australians wanted to participate. I think it is most unfortunate that this depressing feeling has been created about our mining operations. The head of Mount Isa Mines Ltd stated only a few months ago that to get any sort of mining industry of reasonable size under way takes about $20m. It takes money to do these things. 
A very definite effort was made in the Budget to affect the gold industry. This would have affected the State of Western Australia about which you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  would be particularly concerned. It was recognised, particularly by people in the Kalgoorlie area and others, that the attitude of the Government towards the gold industry in wiping out all concessions that had previously been given to it could have a very detrimental effect. It is to the credit of the Labor Party Caucus that it stood up to its Ministers and said that some of this policy had to be altered. I am not one of those people who say that Caucus should not do this. I always have taken the view that Ministers are not supreme gods. I believe that the great bulk of the people in a party should have a say. It is to the credit of Caucus that it did this. The 'Australian', which is a Whitlam supporter, always attacks Caucus for doing this sort of thing. I applaud the Caucus and say that that was the right attitude. It is nice to see that at least the Government has now become sensible in this regard. Although it has not gone all the way, I hope that what has been done will help the gold industry more than would have been the case if that policy had not been altered. As far as price control is concerned, we have different ideas expressed about this matter. We know that a referendum is to be held later. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out several matters relating to the Budget which we had before us a little while ago. I had moved on to the matter of prices control and the referendum which is about to be held. I know that the case for the referendum is presented in such a way that it appears to be the answer to everybody's troubles. Over a period price control has not been proved to be the answer. Back in previous days, in war time, the then Government had power to control prices and so on. Those of us who can remember back that far remember just what happened. It is easy to recall the shortages of goods and how those who had the most money were able to buy from under the counter. The ordinary person was on the outside. He was like the label on the bottle; he was on the outside, and he missed out. 
Price control does not encourage production. One of the main causes of inflation is a lack of production.  Senator Lillico,  who sits alongside me, gave me a statement from the Hobart Chamber of Commerce which indicates how price control acts in reverse to the encouragement of production. With the control of milk and dairy products, the dairy herds in Tasmania fell by 26,000 head, and in Australia by 300,000 head. The fixation of fat lamb prices wiped out the fat lamb export industry in Tasmania. That indicates just how effective these things can be. 
It was under control. 
There was price control, and people could not get the goods. There were shortages and so on. The people who had the most money could get the goods, and others could not. The honourable senator knows that as well as I do. It was a headache for the Government of the day and for everybody who had to try to work with the prices department. I can remember that the difficulty in ordering a suit to be made was that the tailor from whom a person was buying the suit had to wait for a price from the price control office. 
-Perhaps so. The climate of the city in which I live is such that a suit is a great advantage.  Senator Wilkinson  knows as well as I do that when the dead hand of government gets on to these things it certainly kills production and incentive. There is no question about it, there has to be an incentive for people to produce. If there is price control and all this sort of nonsense things will be worse. Already there is a shortage of goods, and the whole problem will be accentuated. I know that a lot of airy fairy things are said to try to dazzle people that certain things will be the cure-all for everything, but in the long run price control is no advantage but a disadvantage. 
Honourable senators will remember that it was a Labor government, as far as I can recall, which tried to get price control unto the Federal Government. They will remember the referendum which was held in, I think, 1944. At that time Queensland had a Premier who was looked upon as one of the great men of the Labor Party of that time.  Sir William  Forgan Smith was the Premier. He represented the city from which I come- Mackay. He had a strong personality. In Proserpine, which is 19 miles or so north of Mackay, there were recently some celebrations of so many years of the town's existence. One of the legal men in Mackay went to Proserpine, and in a display depicting the history of the area, saw on show an edition of the Proserpine 'Guardian ' of an earlier era. Apparently it carried quite a big spread, in the form of an advertisement or statement, which said: 'Don 't give any more power to Canberra, Forgan Smith, the Premier of Queensland, said so'. That advice might well be taken to heart by true Labor men today. Forgan Smith was a strong Labor personality.  His  view was: "No more power to Canberra'. I believe that the people  of  Australia should say that to this Government on 8 December. 
We hear a lot of nonsense about what won the election for the Labor Party, how it was swept in and so on. Actually, there was no sweeping into office. The result was very close. 
The honourable senator should analyse the figures. It would not have taken very many votes for the result to have been the other way. 
-I know that. 
Other people say that I am a futurist. I do not know.  Senator Keeffe  said that I am living in the past. I hope that I will always retain a youthful and fertile mind and will look to the future, not look backwards. One never gains anything by looking backwards. One can be a futurist and gain a lot by it. A lot of people claim that the ALP was elected on the policy which it presented to the people. My experience has been that very often - 
I am not responsible for what other people say. I paddle my own canoe, and I speak accordingly. My experience has been that if I talk to the general run of people after a policy speech has been delivered and if I ask them what points of policy they remember- it may surprise honourable senators opposite to know this- a number of people begin to think about it and say: 'I cannot tell you any points'. Arrogant Gough made so many points in his policy speech last time that I do not think even members of the Labor Party could recite half of what he said on that occasion. I know that it is a very easy thing to say: 'This is the platform, this was approved'. My experience is that very few people can remember what was said in a policy speech. As a matter of fact, most campaigns are generally won or lost on some general feeling which the people have about a government. 
If the Senate feels that some change should be made to a Bill there is no reason why it cannot make the change. It has been said previously by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  in reply to a question, that the Senate is elected on the same basis as members of the House of Representatives are elected- by the people of the States. The structure of the Senate is such that there is always a carryover from the previous 3 years. I know that newspapers and other people take great delight in trying to denigrate the Senate. They say: 'The Senate should not do this, and the Senate should not do that'. We know that a lot of these newspapers are slanted in their approach. They do not have a genuine outlook, often it is a very immature outlook. Take as an example the 'Australian' which belongs to the multi-millionaire Rupert Murdoch. What does that paper do? It is a Whitlam supporter. Apparently it is not a Labor supporter. When Caucus, in a truly democratic manner, changes something, what does that paper do? It takes members of the Labor Party to task and says that they should not have challenged  Mr Whitlam  and his ministry. I have always maintained- I have always stood for this in Parliament, in my Party and elsewhere- that if I felt strongly about a thing I had the right to vote accordingly. I will not sell out. I have always taken the view that all members of Parliament have equal rights. A leader or a Minister does not have the right to act like God, although he might think that he is God. Every member of Parliament has an equal right in deciding ultimately what the legislation of this country shall be. As I have said, I believe in being fair. I think the Labor Party has demonstrated that it is democratic in relation to this matter because Caucus is not prepared to make a decision if it thinks its Ministry is not correct. I will always say that. 
During the last days of the administration of the previous Government a great deal was said about our Government being an unemployment Government and so on. It was rather interesting to see in a newspaper cutting from the Sydney Sun' of 19 September 1972 an article which referred to the Labor Party in opposition making a great old song and dance about the number of unemployed. Of course, the figures released gave the impression that there were more unemployed than apparently was the case. We know that today a number of people do not want to work; they draw social service benefits, dodge work and so on. I think I read about some chap in my own area who registered as a lion tamer. There would not be too many positions of that nature offering. If a lion was brought to him to tame one probably would not see his heels for dust. But I remember during the last days of the previous Government when a great hullabaloo was being made about the unemployment situation the New South Wales Employers' Federation said that many industries could not find labour. This statement by the Federation was confirmed by a report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' that more positions were being advertised as vacant than was the case in the previous 12 months, so much so that various industries could not get the people they needed. In fact, one industry had to close down because it could not get employees. One concern said that it wanted some hundreds of men and it could not get them. But at the time it was being said that unemployment was so great that our Government was a government of unemployment. This, of course, was utter nonsense. 
A large amount of money has been budgeted for education. A great hullabaloo is going on at the moment about a double dissolution that may take place if certain things are not done. If both Houses of the Parliament went to an election I think it could be a very interesting election campaign, because under the education policies of this Government certain schools are not being provided with assistance. I want to make it quite clear that I have never been in favour of subsidising private schools. I believe it is the Government's job to provide schools. As a consequence, if other people want to run schools it is their business. But if one is to adopt a certain principle in this regard it has to be a fair principle. I voted against the proposal when it was initiated. I fought against it. But once a proposal is adopted, everybody must be treated fairly. 
What is the result of the Government's education scheme? Contrary to what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said and contrary to what the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  said, the Government has deprived a number of schools of a subsidy. What schools are involved? They are mainly protestant schools. What is behind it that they should all be protestant schools? Is it suggested that only protestant people are affluent? That is nonsense. Of course, originally there were Jewish schools and I think probably two or three Roman Catholic schools which were to be deprived of a subsidy. It is to their credit that a number of bishops of the Roman Catholic church rebelled about this situation. They said it was not fair that this distinction should be made. If the Labor Party would like a double dissolution on this issue I think a very interesting election campaign would ensue in relation to the discrimination between one church school as opposed to others. If it is necessary to vote on this issue I will have no hesitation in voting according to what I think is right. 
I have run through these points because I did not have the opportunity of taking part in the Budget debate. I thought that something should be said about them. I believe that probably some consideration might be given to what I have said because I feel that each and every one of us should be aiming at building Australia into a better country. I trunk some of the suggestions have merit in them and we might look at them to try to do more for Australia. The most important problem facing us at the moment is inflation. As I said before, this colourless Budget has failed to face up to the problem of inflation. In fact, if anything, it has increased it. 
-As one who has always stood for the independence of this chamber, I think that I should say a few words in connection with this Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. The matter has been set out by the previous  speaker, Senator Wright,  in a very able manner.  Senator McManus  also brought a very good, practical, down to earth approach to the matter. Over the years this chamber has developed to a stage which, possibly, at one time people felt it would not reach. I think it can be truly said that today the Senate plays a much more important part than it did some few years ago. The way in which the committee system has developed and the approach of the Senate in certain ways and to various subjects have been outlined. I think that this has all been to the good so far as the legislatures of this Commonwealth are concerned. I feel that nothing should be done to detract from the passage which the Senate has been travelling for some years. It would be tragic if things were done to deflect the Senate from the approach which it has been making and from the development which has been achieved. 
As has been pointed out, the need for the synchronisation of elections has not been brought about by the Senate. As has been clearly stated, it has been brought about by the people in the other place. I do not think it is a very good move at all to change the Constitution to enable this place to be taken to an election every time the House of Representatives decides to go to an election. It is quite possible that in the other place situations may develop from time to time which may bring about more elections than are being held now because of the elections for the Houses being out of tune with each other. 
From the Senate's point of view, having a Senate election apart from the House of Representatives election focusses attention on the Senate much more than when the 2 Houses go to the polls together. In the past the tendency was always to cloud the issue of the Senate by featuring the House of Representatives to such a great extent. I know that people in the other place like to feel that they dominate and, as a consequence, they like to put the Senate in an inferior position. But it has been recognised by members in that other place that over recent years the Senate has made strides of which they are envious. I remember that about 18 months or a couple of years ago, when the Senate Estimates committee system had been established, on 2 occasions then Opposition members- now Government membersin the other place stood up and asked: Why cannot we do this? Why cannot we do that? The Senate does it. We are just so and so'. The honourable members meant that today the Senate is a House of very great importance. On another day members of the House of Representatives who are members of the Party of which I am a member stood up and said almost the same. It was an indication in their minds that the Senate was achieving things, was going places and was developing to a much higher status than it had attained before. I think that this is all to the good of the parliamentary system of this country. We do not want to let people in the other place do their best to destroy the Senate. I have no hesitation in saying that because I know what has been said to me by the person concerned. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - arrogant Gough- hates the Senate and would love to see the Senate reduced considerably in stature. 
-Order! I ask  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wilkinson  to remain silent while the honourable senator is speaking; otherwise we cannot hear. 
. allocated on the basis of need it means that the poorer schools will get most. 
If it is said that the poorer schools will get most, then from the point of view of logic the converse is that the richer schools will get some but less. He did not say for a moment that the poorer schools will get all there is and that the others will get nothing. 
-As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has shown by his introduction of a Bill of Rights that he nas a strong belief in the rights of people I desire to ask him the following question: Is he aware that a journalist named Alan Ramsey was employed for some years as a political feature journalist for the 'Australian' newspaper which is a segment of the multi-national news media organisation of Rupert Murdoch, who is a friend and supporter of  Mr Whitlam  as distinct from being a Labor supporter and is not a supporter of the Leader or of the Caucus? Does he know that the Murdoch multi-national group wanted to transfer Alan Ramsey from the 'Australian' to the 'Sunday 
Telegraph', which is another newspaper in this group, to enable it to transfer a strong supporter of  Mr Whitlam  from the 'Sunday Telegraph' to take Alan Ramsey's place on the 'Australian'? Is he aware that  Mr Ramsey,  because he was happy in his position on the 'Australian' and no doubt because it gave him a national readership as against what would mainly be a State readership with the 'Sunday Telegraph', did not want to make the change? Does he know that  Mr Ramsey  was sacked by the Murdoch multinational media group because he declined to transfer to the 'Sunday Telegraph'? 
Because of the belief of the Leader of the Government in the rights of the people, does he think a journalist or any employee should be sacked because that person does not desire to transfer from one position to another within the same organisation, when that person is carrying out that position successfully and is happy in that position? Does he not consider that this action by  Mr Whitlam  's friend and supporter- Rupert Murdoch's multi-national group- is a brutal exercise of employment authority? Does he not consider that it is a flagrant breach of the rights of an employee to be sacked because he wanted to remain in the position and work in which he was happy and successful? I am suprised that Labor senators, who are interjecting, should be afraid to stand up for an employee. 
They are only formal matters? 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate consider that there is any advantage in our international airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, being a member of the International Air Transport Association? Is it not a fact that Qantas is the headquarters of IATA in Australia? Is he aware that this dictatorial and autocratic organisation shows no control over its own members? Further, is he aware that while a set price fare arrangement for the round trip between Australia and Europe has been made the air travel industry is in a shambles because of snide operators who are members of IATA and who give different fares to different people? Does he know that it is common knowledge in the tourist industry that these fares may range from as low as $500 or $550? As this indicates what a great mess the tourist industry is in, does he think that IATA is a worthwhile organisation to which Australia 's national airline should belong? 

 -Mr President, I should like to say a few words. I have noticed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  have been speaking about controls over the price 'of land but the tendency is to concentrate onareas fringing cities, towns and so on. The indication is that people who have rural lands to which cities and towns have extended must not make any worthwhile profit, out of their land. We know thatover a period of time appreciation takes place and it always has been the accepted thing that where people have held onto property over the years they are entitled to the return that comesfrom it. There is noarguing that such people often did not buy this land for another purpose. However, with the change of circumstances, I believe that these people have the right to get whatever comes outof it. I have been rather struck by the Way that the attack is always about rural lands. We never see the Prime Minister or his colleaguesmakingan attack about the great appreciation of land that is bought and sold in the main parts of our cities and towns. 
SenatorWebster-Mr Whitlam sold his house. 
We know that often people buy business properties in acity or a town. After a few years the properties; appreciate greatly. There is no indication that this type of profit on thesale of land comes within the ambit of the Government's proposal. The referendum seeks control of prices. I feel that the' Government has adead set on anything pertaining to the rural areas. There is no questionabout it, the Govern- ment is city oriented. We mustthink of things on a broader basis than that.I feel that attention should be drawn to the one sided attitude which the Prime Minister has been taking in regard to land sales in rural areas as against land sales in city areas. 

 Senator Webster reminded me of the sale of  Mr Whitlam  's house. We know that he had a home at Cabramatta. I asked a question about this sale some months ago. According to real estate people in the suburb in which he lived, he asked apricewhichwas$14000 more than the home was worth. Iknow that the matter was taken up byoneof the newspapers. An article appeared inthat newspaper.  Mrs Whitlam  replied to it.Thetopreal estate man in that community said that, the price was $14,000 too high. It is rather hypocritical forMr.Whitlam to talk about the cost of homes and the price of land being too high and that the prices should come down. But did he ask for a low saleprice? He went for the big price. He thought that people would pay the top price because he is Prime Minister. 
In response to the article which appeared in the 'Australian'  Mrs Whitlam  wrote a letterstating that the reasonsuch a big price was put on the home was that they thought that they would make the price so high that they would not be able to sell it. What sort of moonshine or fairy story is that? In these days of realistic thinking, I think that that story can be treated for what it is worth. There can be no question about it, the Prime Minister talks one way when he talks about other people 's property, but when it comes to his own property he gets lockjaw. I believe that when people such as the Prime Minister are pressing an idea they should at least show that they are sincere and that they are not just doing things to make a case which isnot sincere. The prices referendum will be held on Saturday. I think that the Prime- Minister's hypocrisy inrelation to this matter/should be widely known. I hope that when the people go to the polls they will treat that question with the due respect that it deserves and will not pass any more power to parliamentarians in Canberra. 
We are getting near the endof a session which has been a very heavy one so far as work is concerned. One thing about which I am always; concerned is the status and conduct of parliamentarians. When all is said and done Parliament should be a placeofdignity and a place to which people can look with respect. I was greatly concerned two or three weeks ago when the Prime Minister acted in a disgraceful manner, He accused a parliamentarian of being drunk after a function at whichthe Prime Minister said, he had extended hospitality. The hospitality wasextended by this Parliament, not by  Mr Whitlam.  I know that the way in which he spoke caused resentment not just among people on this side of the chamber but among some of hissupporters. I know that quite a number of supporters of the Government take a very decentview and that quite a number do not like the Prime Minister speaking with a bitter tongue. Investigations that I have made of 3very respectable parliamentarians who werewith  Dr Forbes  show that  Dr Forbes  was sober. In those circumstances, I think it is a very serious matter for somebody to be libelled when he isnot guilty. 
There is another one who says that  Dr Forbes  was sober. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Were 200 gallons of champagne consumed on the Prime Minister's trip to China: if not what was the quantity. 
Was the champagne consumed of French origin: if not where was it produced. 
-Has the Attorney-General directed the Commonwealth Police to investigate the accuracy and circumstances of a very serious allegation that the lives of  Mr Hawke,  his wife and children were threatened because of  Mr Hawke  's support of the Israeli cause? If so, has he a report to give? If not, will he make sure that the Commonwealth Police investigate this matter and report to the nation, as I think everyone would like to know more about the circumstances of this situation? 
I enter this debate as a result of having listened very intently to  Senator Gietzelt  and because I think that certain aspects need to be properly expanded to show that what appears to a Government senator to be the case may not so appear to an Opposition senator and also possibly to the people at large. Firstly, we continually get the statement that the Government has a mandate for this and for that. We know that when parties go before the people they put forward policies. Being one of those with probably a more simple mind I have taken the trouble to talk to the people about these matters. I have questioned people who have heard a policy speech whether they could tell me the points of the policy expounded and after they thought for a while- and some of them were quite intelligent people- they said: 'As a matter of fact, we cannot tell you one point of the policy'. I know that governments come to office and say: 'We put the matter before the people'. I have had discussions on this subject with members of the Labor Party. They admit that they cannot remember all the points in the policy which was put forward at the last election. I do not think anybody could remember all the things which were put forward. To me, it is a lot of moonshine when governments of various colours claim that they put forward a policy and have a mandate for everything which they put in their policy. It is quite factual that great notice is not taken by the people of many of the points in the policy and they are not in their minds when they go to vote. Therefore, when legislation comes before this chamber it comes before it for consideration by sensible people who should try to look at these things on the basis of what is best for the country. If Opposition senators or a section of the Senate Opposition feel that something is not right in regard to legislation, then it is their duty and right to say so. What is more, if legislation is not correct it is the right and duty of people within a party on the Government side to say so. That is the policy which I practised when I was on the Government side as a senator. Everybody knows that. I have taken my stand. Whenever I thought something was wrong I was prepared to vote against it. 
I think it can be said to the credit of the Labor Party that, under its democratic system, when Ministers make a decision the Labor Caucus can actually change the decision of the Ministers. If the Labor Caucus can make this change in this democratic way, there is no reason why this Senate, which is duly elected by the people of this country- by the same people who vote for the other House- cannot, in the same democratic way as Caucus, change the decision of the Ministers. So we, as senators, have the right to make a change if we think it is in the best interests of the country. I am not one of those who believe that we should change a thing automatically because it comes from the other side. Legislation should be adjudicated on to decide whether it is the best available. If senators on one side of the Senate or even a mixture of all parties decide on a certain issue, and if that decision is made on an honest basis, I do not think the Senate should be castigated for making that decision. 
I well recall that when we were in Government there were a number of occasions on which the then Opposition- now the Government- took steps in concert with one or two of the smaller parties represented in this chamber. The legislation relating to receipts duty tax is a case in point. I think the Australian Democratic Labor Party moved in connection with that. The Australian Labor Party, which is now in Government but which was then in Opposition, supported the DLP. The result was that the legislation was thrown out. It was an item of consequence. From memory, I think it involved something like $50m or $60m. If I recall correctly, it was part of the Budget proposals. 
-That is right. It was proposed to increase the sales tax on motor cars. As  Senator Byrne  mentioned I, as a Government senator, opposed that and I fought very strongly. There was another case when the then Opposition, which is now the ALP Government, offered strong opposition to increased postal charges. I think that in that case the DLP had moved and the ALP was supporting it. Because of some other influence that was at work in the ALP, a change was made. But at one time it seemed as though that legislation would be defeated. It was part of the then Government's Budget proposals. These are things which we take in our stride. We have to recognise that the people who are opposing are elected by voters just as honourable senators on the Government side are elected. These people elect the members of the other House. Therefore representatives here, believing that they are fighting for a certain cause, have a perfect right, as senators, to take this stand. 
As has been stated, the Senate is a House of review. I believe that the Senate, as its members are elected to represent States, has a much wider sphere of activity and thinking because each State comprises so many aspects whereas individual electorates can have a very small area of interest. I think that as senators we have to take a much wider view of things because of the very basis on which we are elected, that is, by the States. Therefore, I believe it is wrong to castigate the Senate because it amends legislation and because, at times, it may throw out legislation. If the Opposition, in deferring certain legislation, does it correctly and for the purpose of investigating the legislation further, then that is in the interests of achieving good legislation. 
I do not think anybody should want legislation rushed through a chamber and, possibly, later find that it should not have been rushed through. This has happened before. I have seen it happen in the Parliament of my own State of Queensland. It has happened here. Legislation has had to be repaired afterwards because it has been rushed through. I feel that some of the legislation which has been deferred probably will be all the better for its deferment. I am not suggesting that because some of the legislation has been deferred I am against it. I think that the Trade Practices Bill is of very great importance. Because of its far reaching effect it is a Bill which we should consider thoroughly. I have spoken to honourable senators on this side who are members of the legal profession. I have had discussions with them. I know them to be honest men. They have said that, because of the great amount of legislation which has come into this chamber and the great consequences which flow from this legislation, it has been impossible for them to study that Bill properly. 
Let us look at the actual figures. If I remember rightly, this year the Senate has passed more legislation than in any other year since 1968. That indicates that the Senate has not been stopping and loafing on legislation. The fact that we have put through a record number of Bills this year, as compared with all years back to 1968 at least, indicates that all the talk about great frustration probably has been overstated and possibly is political. I know that the Press and the various other sections of the media have been trying to talk about the Senate frustrating the carrying out of a mandate and this and that. This has been building up in the minds of the people the suggestion that the Senate is acting wrongly and contrary to the interests of the people and of the present Government. 
My own view, from what I can find, is that what our Leader,  Senator Withers,  said is correct. Wherever I go I find people saying: 'Thank goodness we have a Senate'. I believe that people are recognising the fact that the Senate should take hold of legislation, review it, amend it, throw it out or delay it. I cannot find in the mind of the average person any strong feeling against that. As one who stands for the Senate as a proper House of review and as a House representing the States, taking a broad view of things I believe that this year the Senate has done a remarkably good job. I think that most of the amendments that have been made or the delays that have taken place have had a worthwhile reason behind them. Under no circumstances can it be truly said that the Senate, as a House, has not functioned as it should. I believe that what the people are saying is correct, namely: Thank goodness there is a Senate'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that the IATA group of international airlines have asked for a 6 per cent rise in fares, will the Government investigate the lavishness of these international airlines in the great reductions in fares which they give to members of domestic airlines staff, many of whom have nothing whatsoever to do with selling air travel, and their families and relatives? Does he not consider that this can be a lavishness in which seats are not being availed of by people who can pay for them, that is, the ordinary travellers? Also, will the Minister have the Government look into the generosity of these airlines in giving members of the Press and other members of the media free trips? The Minister might take into consideration the tightness of these airlines against people of the travel trade who have to go through a very fine sieve before they can obtain any concession at all. 
-The debate by the Committee on the Schools Commission Bill has been so wide-ranging that it has really incorporated the subject of aid to schools. I want to make my position clear. I cannot understand the attitude of the Opposition to this matter. Certain stands have been taken in this regard and then, like a warm summer, the snow has melted and there has been a change in attitude. I want it to be known that I have been honest enough in the past to say that I have never been in favour of state aid, but now that it has been instituted I believe that it should be for everyone and not for particular sections of the community. Insofar as that is concerned, the argument that was originally raised was that people who had children in independent schools had to contribute to the taxation which established the state school system and which is directed towards the state school system and also had to pay the fees of their own children in independent schools. We have now arrived at another situation in which people who have children attending certain schools that are designated to be wealthy schools -in a number of cases they are not- are worse off than ever before. They not only subscribe, through the taxation they pay, to the government schools and to the aid provided to other independent schools but also have to pay for the education of their own children at schools which receive no assistance. As one who, as I have said, is not in favour of state aid, I believe that if we are going to provide it - 
-That is right. The point about it is this: Why make a distinction between Australian school children? Why is assistance given to those whose parents are said to be in a particular income group and not to others? 
-Senator McAuliffe kindly interjected and said that I make a distinction between the States. Let me say that it is rather unusual for the Australian Labor Party to make a distinction. It speaks of a one-class community and so on. The Budget provides for the wiping out of the means test eligibility for the age pension so that everybody over 75, irrespective of income, qualifies for the pension. Lately we have had the spectacle of  Sir Robert  Menzies going onto the old age pension. Do honourable senators opposite reckon he is on the rocks? Now Dame Mabel Brookes says that she will go on the pension. Would you say that she is on the rocks? This is an example of the Labor Party's determination that there must be no distinction or discrimination between people. Yet it makes a distinction between the children of the nation. That shows the inconsistency of the Labor Party. To say that one school is wealthy and the other is not and so on is just a lot of nonsense. I say to Government senators: If you are to cater for the school children of the nation in this way, cater for all of them and do not discriminate between them. It is a disgraceful attitude. As has been mentioned, many of these schools belong to certain denominations, and the point is that the Labor Government is discriminating against the people of those denominations. It is to the credit of the Roman Catholic people that they have had meetings on the subject and have said that they do not want discrimination that is occuring. Their bishops have said this. Protestant and Jewish schools are being discriminated against. Is this the right attitude to adopt? Either the Government is in favour of aid or it is not. Surely in this case the Labor Government should have been consistent and treated all Australian children as Australians. I think that the Labor Government should be strongly criticised for the attitude that it has adopted in this legislation which indicates that it discriminates in areas where it wants to discriminate but not in others where it thinks it can play up to the votes of certain people. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Annual Holidays Ordinance 1973, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 46 of 1973 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1972, be disallowed. 
I would like to say a few words on this Bill. I spoke on it yesterday. As I mentioned in my speech yesterday, there has been much talk about wealthy schools. I said at the time that the matter is not one of schools but of Australian school children. I also pointed out how the Government discriminates against certain people. Yet the Government speaks about the abolition of the means test so that everybody will have an equal right to receive a pension. One of the interesting things about this question of education is that apparently when the Government took up this attitude its judgment was based not on the wealth of the individual but on the supposed wealth of certain schools. It is rather interesting to note that if a wealthy man sends his child to a state school his wealth does not matter because the Government provides all the schooling. But if he decides to send his child to what might be termed a betteroff school he is discriminated against. Why is there this difference? As I said, I am not a State aider at all, but if we are to have this aid it should apply to everybody. It does not apply to everybody when, of 2 wealthy men, one receives aid and the other does not. It seems to me to be a rather peculiar discrimination. 
The Liberal Party, of which I am a member, jointly with the other Opposition Parties, took a certain stand, and we held steadfast to that stand right throughout because we believed that the stand we took was the right one. I do not hold with the view that the compromise brought about the success. I have been in public life sufficiently long to know that there are always certain signs that one must interpret. Despite the bluster and fluster that might have been put out, I know that no government would have gone into the new year without giving the aid that it said it would give. If it had done so there would have been a reaction against the Government. Would anyone tell me that the granting of $600m-odd would be stopped because of an argument over a paltry amount of $5m? Who would have come off second best if this money had not been allocated? It would have been the Government. Though certain people in this Parliament might have felt that they would get nothing if they continued with their stand, I am of the opinion that the Government would have had to come to its senses. In those circumstances I think that we might even have got a better deal for the people concerned than that proposed at the present time. I wanted to make those points because I believe that the Government is discriminating against certain people although it says it is trying to eliminate discrimination in matters such as pensions. Those are the sentiments I wished to express. 
I desire to support the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  in connection with the late Donald Cameron. I was very happy to have the opportunity of campaigning with Donald Cameron during the 1949 elections when he first stood for the seat of Oxley in the House of Representatives and I stood as a senator for the State of Queensland. I think it can be truly said of Donald Cameron that he was a very clean personality and one of nature's gentlemen. 
As the Leader of the Government has said, he served in many areas, but I think the one that brought him closest to us was his service as Minister for Health. As we know, in those days the Minister for Health had certain problems to overcome and certain difficulties arose in connection with that portfolio. I think it can be fairly said that Donald Cameron, because of his own medical experience, was able to bring to that portfolio a clarity of mind and thinking about which the people in the medical world were quite happy. When he lost the seat of Oxley in Queensland and ceased to be a member of the House of Representatives, he moved on, as the Leader of the Government said, to the position of High Commissioner for Australia in New Zealand. From the record it can be seen that he carried out that duty of representing this country in the fine, dignified manner which we all knew he possessed. As a fellow Queenslander, as one who campaigned with him in his first election and as one who had a very high regard for him personally and as a member of the House of Representatives, on behalf of the Liberal senators I join with the Leader of the Government in expressing very sincere sympathy to Donald Cameron's wife and his family. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia- Leader of the Australian Country 
Party in the Senate)- I rise to associate the Australian Country Party with the motion before the Senate. Unlike  Senator Wood,  I did not know  Dr Cameron  very well, although I was in the Senate during the latter part of his term in another place. However, I did have the opportunity of meeting the man several times after he left the Parliament, and the more one met him the better one got to know him.  Dr Cameron  served with distinction as a physician and surgeon during the Second World War. Later he served as a Minister of the Crown and later still he served as a diplomat. I associate my Party with the motion of condolence and on its behalf extend sympathy to  Mrs Cameron  and the family. 
-I wish to say a few words in relation to this matter. I am very concerned about the relationship between the Public Service and this Parliament. A week or so ago we had  Mr Charles  Perkins making certain statements which, in the opinion of certain people, conflicted with what he should be doing as a public servant. It is to the credit of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  that he stood firm on what he believed was the correct action to take. It is my belief that  Senator Cavanagh  is a Minister who does his utmost to carry out the responsibilities of his portfolio in a very honest and sincere manner. He is very well regarded by those of us who know him.  Senator Cavanagh  made a certain stand which he honestly believed to be correct, and I think in the eyes of most people it would be considered to be correct. I think it was despicable for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to undermine that stand.  His  action was very serious so far as the democracy of this country is concerned. Both the well regarded Minister,  Senator Cavanagh,  and the very well regarded member of the Public Service,  Mr Dexter,  of whom everybody speaks in the highest terms, felt that some action should be taken in relation to this matter, and  Mr Perkins  was suspended. Of course, the charge was to be proceeded with and was to be considered. But what did we find? The Prime Minister intervened and said that he would do everything to stop it from proceeding. 
As my colleague,  Senator Lillico,  said, he tried  Mr Dexter  at the Press conference. I think this is a terrible situation to have developed. We find the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the head of the Department being degraded or attempts being made to degrade them in the eyes of the public and the Public Service when, in my opinion, they were both doing a first-class job. 
I will probably make some remarks about that in a few minutes. It is very serious that the Prime Minister should intervene in this way. I have spoken to a number of public servants in this regard. For what reason did the Prime Minister take this unprecedented action? I have asked average public servants whether they think the Prime Minister would have interceded on their behalf had they done something of this nature, and they have said that of course he would not. Why did the Prime Minister intercede in this case? It was because  Mr Perkins  is, I think, a quarter-caste Aboriginal. The Prime Minister was playing up to the Aborigines in this regard. What we have to remember is that in this country there are between 12 million and 13 million nonAboriginal people and there are 150,000 Aborigines, whether they are full-blooded, half-caste, quarter-caste or one-eighth Aboriginal. I think it is about time we decided when a person is an Aboriginal and when he is not an Aboriginal. From the way in which the Prime Minister has been going on one would think that these 150,000 Aborigines were the 12 million or 13 million non-Aboriginal people. As a matter of fact, the reaction I am getting from people is that it is time somebody stood up for the rights of whites in this country. I really think that the bias shown by the Prime Minister in stabbing his own Minister and the head of the Department in the back indicates in no uncertain terms what the Prime Minister is. He is running around the world telling people this and that about our country. He talks about racism and all the rest of it. I say that his action indicates that he, the Prime Minister, is a racist. 
I do not care whether  Senator Bonner  is here or not. I say what I think. The honourable senator should not get his temperature up. In the course of my speech somebody interjected and said something about the Prime Minister staying in Australia. That brings to mind another incident involving the Prime Minister. I come from the State of Queensland. Recently that State suffered probably the greatest natural tragedy that has happened in this country. The people in and around the Brisbane area suffered great hardship. They lost their homes and their property and were caused great inconvenience and danger. 
I gave my contribution, and I have made it public. Homes in the city of Ipswich have been swirled away in the floods. In the west and north-west of Queensland people have suffered the loss of cattle and sheep and so on. In those areas homes were almost completely submerged and people were sitting on rooftops waiting to be taken off by helicopter. Yet this Prime Minister of ours left for overseas when that flood was reaching its peak. He would not stay. He is the great prima donna. He must appear on the world stage. He is so vain, conceited and arrogant that he thinks that when he goes overseas and talks the whole world is shattered, shivering and shaking from what he says. Of course, the statement was made that his program was arranged and could not be altered. He could have easily flown over the area and had a look at what was taking place before he left. 
Let me contrast his actions with those of a former Prime Minister, the late Harold Holt. When Harold Holt was in New Zealand as the Prime Minister of this country and the bushfires occurred in Tasmania, what did he do? He returned to this country immediately. But during the time that these floods were causing this devastation the Prime Minister did not send one word of message to the people of the State in which this damage was occurring. The Lord Mayor of Brisbane tried to cover up for him by saying that he was in constant contact with the Prime Minister while he was away. What happened? The Prime Minister put in an appearance at the Brisbane Airport. He flew over the Brisbane Airport at night. He would see a great deal of damage at night! He spent about an hour in the Brisbane Airport. 
It is all right for honourable senators opposite to make a display; it is to their credit that many of them were very hostile about the fact that their Prime Minister did not have a look at what was going on in Queensland. People might say: What could he do?' We are human beings, and the very fact of the Prime Minister recognising the intensity of the tragedy by going and looking and expressing sympathy to the people of Queensland when they were suffering such tribulation would, I am sure, have touched the hearts and minds of the people much more than the action he took subsequently. My personal point of view is that the fact that the Prime Minister completely ignored the tragedy that took place in that State over that period of time indicates his lack of warmth and feeling for people. 
I know that the people of the north-western regions of Queensland must have been very happy to read, after they were lifted from their roof tops by helicopters, how  Mr and Mrs Whitlam  and their daughter had a very happy day in Thailand being entertained by the King and Queen of Thailand. It must have given those people great pleasure to know that in all their adversity, trials and troubles  Mr Whitiam  had a happy day in Thailand with the King and Queen. It is quite evident that the Prime Minister lacks the warmth of human feeling and kindness, because he did not even go to Queensland and see the devastation and destruction that had taken place in that State of the Commonwealth. In my mind there are 2 things: The Prime Minister is a racist and he is such a conceited, arrogant person that all he wants to do is perform on a world basis. 
-I wish to say a few words. It has been suggested that the purpose of delaying these referendum questions is one possibly of obstruction. I take the view that the Senate is one of the two Houses of Parliament through which this legislation passes. Therefore I think it is the right of the parliamentarians to have the opportunity to debate this legislation. In the other place the legislation was unfortunately put through by using the guillotine, which means that it was rammed through the House without proper and extensive debate. Therefore I feel that there should be a debate on these questions in this chamber if anybody wishes to consider them further. I know that some debate did take place previously before the 
Senate but no doubt there could be others who may have different or further thoughts. Therefore the matter should be debated. 
In this system of democracy one of the purposes of debate is to enlighten the people. The other purpose is argument. I feel that if the debate is properly carried out and if there is some time for it, there is no reason why people cannot research through the avenues of Hansard and the radio- we do not get much coverage by the Press of course- and find out what has been said and the arguments that have been used. I feel that this is a very important matter because when the people have to go to the poll they have to decide whether or not it is right to alter the Constitution. I have my mind made up. I am quite frank about that. But I think that the right of debate is very important, especially from the standpoint of the people of this country considering their decision when these referendum proposals are put forward. That is why I am supporting the line that has been taken this evening. 
I have listened with a great degree of interest to this debate. One thing which strikes me is that the Government is putting forward the proposition that because it desires to put a proposal to the people by way of referendum this chamber should agree automatically. I think that this chamber has the right to judge the suitability of a question, whether it is the type of question that should go to the people. For instance, taking the extreme, if the question were of an irresponsible nature to the minds of honourable senators, why should they say: 'Yes, it should be put before the people'? 
The Senate was established for the purpose of giving serious and deliberate consideration to whatever came before it. Therefore I think that honourable senators have a right to express themselves and to make a decision on whether a question should go forward to the people. I know that there are processes by which the Government can ultimately overcome the matter but if honourable senators really believe that a question is the wrong one to put before the people and if the Government persists and is determined to try to get the question before the people, the very fact that the Senate makes a decision which is contrary to the Government's wishes gives a lead to the voters as to what the Senate thinks. Therefore, I think that the Government is taking too much upon itself if it expects the Senate automatically to agree to any question going before the people; the Government is treating the Senate in such a way that it believes that the Senate must automatically rubber stamp the Government's decisions. Since I have been a member of the Senate, even when my own Party was in office, that has been one of the things to which I am not prepared to agree because I have always believed that the Senate was created for certain purposes and for certain reasons. Over the years, because of weakness or control from the other House, the Senate may have not have functioned as it should have functioned, but for some years now the Senate has been functioning in a proper way. Possibly it was wrong that the Senate did not function in a proper way for some time. But the purpose for which the Senate was created is the purpose that should be in the minds of members of this chamber. Under those circumstances I am not prepared to agree to a question going to the people just because the government of the day thinks that the question should go to the people. I think that if we as senators feel that way we should speak strongly against such a question and let the people know what we think. 
Another aspect which does not seem to worry people in government these days is that it costs money- some millions of dollars- to put questions such as these to the people. Apparently millions of dollars just fly off the Government's fingers; it does not seem to worry the Government that money is being expended in this way. Therefore, when we agree to put a question to the people we have to recognise the fact that it is costing the Australian people money to put the question before them. Under those circumstances what has been said does not frighten me in carrying out my duty in this respect. Just as  Senator Byrne  said about  Senator Murphy,  I believe that  Senator James  McClelland for whom I have a very high regard probably was carrying a brief because I do not know whether he really believed some of the things he said. He talked about the days when the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives were held at the same time. Along with  Senator Wright,  1 have been a member of this chamber since 1949, and I am sure that  Senator Wright  would agree with me when I say that over the years when the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives were held at the same time the Senate was considered in a minor key. Everything was more or less concentrated on the House of Representatives. Only when the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives have been held at different times has the Senate come much more into the public mind at election time. 
I clearly remember the days when the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives were held at the same time. The Prime Minister came from the House of Representatives and the election policy was focused very sharply on the House of Representatives. With the change from the pattern of holding elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives at the same time, with the actions that have been taken and the development that has occurred in the Senate over some years now, and despite what the Australian National Opinion Poll and others might say, in the minds of thinking people in this country the Senate rates higher now than at any time in its history. Therefore we as senators, without bringing party bias to bear on our judgment on these questions, are entitled to arrive at an honest decision as to what question we believe should be presented to the people of Australia by way of a referendum. 
Judging from the history of this country, I do not think that the putting of a question to the Australian people by way of a referendum should excite the government of the day very greatly because so often people who go forward with great enthusiasm for the questions being put find that the Australian people are very hard to move when it comes to changing the Australian Constitution. Possibly people take the view that life in this country is not so bad. Australia is one of the best countries in which to live. Despite the fact that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  may have some ambitions and ideas about changing the Constitution, and despite the fact that he thinks the Constitution is not right because it does not suit him personally or politically, the Australian people generally believe that under the Constitution, creaky as some might think it is, we have not done so badly after all. 
Under those circumstances I believe that honourable senators have a right to make a judgment on whether a question should go to the people. I make no bones about it. My mind is clear. I shall vote against the proposal to present this question to the people. If further steps are taken and the question is put to the people, which is a course that the Government can follow, I certainly will do all I can to encourage the Australian people to vote no in the referendum. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator McManus's amendment)  be left out. 
 I shall detain the Senate for less than a minute or two. I object strongly and I place on record my protest that, when an arrangement is made between a Government Minister and the Opposition leader who is in charge of the chamber that arrangement should be adhered to. For  Senator Murphy  to come in tonight and speak for a further 20 minutes in breach of that arrangement does not invite co-operation from the Opposition. I record that on behalf of the Opposition. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales- 
Leader of the Government in the Senate) ( 1 1.23)  -  I do not know anything about what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Greenwood) has said. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has indicated that he does not know anything about it. As neither of us knows anything about it I think that either the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition ought to consult with the Leader of the Opposition before he enters into these before he probably ought to cease to usurp the position of his Leader- or else may I say with respect that it would be better for him to keep quiet on such matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question about the metric system. In view of the great danger associated with a cyclone off the coast, such as the cyclones off Queensland this year, and in view of the necessity for people to know the correct distance that a possible cyclone is from their area, what is the sense in telling people that a cyclone is so many kilometers away from the coast, as we are being told in Queensland, when in the main the people do not know what kilometers are? Would it not be more sensible to express the distance in terms that people knowmiles so people know just how close a danger may be to them because of the necessity to be prepared for such an event? 
-In my opinion this debate brought forth a magnificent contribution from  Senator Wright.  I think it is fair to say that in the 24 years that I have sat in this chamber with  Senator Wright  he has been a strong upholder of the Senate. It is because of the actions of senators such as  Senator Wright  that the Senate today is a more highly regarded chamber than it was before he came here. I feel that his contribution this afternoon was on a very lofty basis and I think it is on that basis that we should consider legislation such as that before us. This is not a question to be decided on a political party basis but on the basis of what is best for the Senate and for the nation. For some years the elections for the 2 Houses of this Parliament have been out of gear with each other. It is easy for people to say: 'Why should the Senate have a separate election?' and so on for the purpose of disregarding the Senate or of downgrading it. It is well known that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  hates the Senate. There is no question about that. He would like to see it got rid of. I think it is fair to say that the personal views of many Labor parliamentarians today are contrary to his, but they are opposed to the Senate. 
I think it is well for us to remember that the Constitution is not wrapped around the House of Representatives, it is wrapped around the Senate. If a Senate had not been created there would not have been an Australian Parliament. The States would not agree to an Australian Parliament unless they had equal representation in one chamber. Therefore the Australian Parliament owes its genesis to an agreement to create the Senate. I think that we should remember these sorts of things. We should not think that the Senate is in an inferior position. Elections for the 2 Houses, through a set of circumstances, parted. For some years Senate elections have been at different times to House of Representatives elections. At the beginning of this period there was a feeling that the departure was costly and unfortunate. Looking back now over the period, I feel that the Senate elections being at different times to the House of Representatives elections is for the betterment of the Senate and of the people of Australia. I believe sincerely that a separate election for the Senate means that the purpose and the rights of the Senate are more clearly brought forth in the minds of the electors, which is important because they decide who represents them in this chamber and in the other place. 
When the elections for the 2 Houses were held simultaneously, the practice was for the Prime Minister to deliver his policy speech, and the whole focus was upon the House of Representatives. The Senate was looked upon as an appendage.  Senator McAuliffe  can turn up his nose, but I am telling him that was my reaction at the time. The election for the Senate appeared to be an appendage to the election for the House of Representatives. I do not think that that idea is good from the Senate's point of view. As time has gone on, with the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives not being held at the same time, I think that the Senate has been given more prominence in the public mind, and the public has a clearer assessment of the Senate, its working and its people. 
I do not say things that I do not believe. Throughout my life one thing has been said of me, even from your side, and that is that I am sincere. I would not have spoken those words if I did not believe them. I believe that they are true. Understanding something about public reactions, I believe that separate elections for the 2 Houses is for the betterment of the Senate and for senators. As a consequence we emerge as personalities and we get much more publicity and much more focus in public than we did when the Senate election was an appendage to the House of Representatives election. 
Under those circumstances 1 cannot see the great fuss and stampede of the Prime Minister and others in wanting to bring in this change to the Constitution so that we will have simultaneous elections. There are other aspects which such a change will affect and which I think  Senator Wright  set out clearly in his very fine contribution to the debate. Looking at the whole situation from the Australian point of view, from the parliamentary system and from the Senate's aspect, I feel that the proposed amendment to the Constitution is one which we should not support. If it is eventually put to the people, after the process of going to the Governor-General, I sincerely hope that the people will oppose it strongly. I agree with honourable senators on this side. We oppose it. Having heard  Senator Wright's  contribution, I hope that his magnificent mind will be brought forth to play a very important task, and that is to help make the people of Australia realise that this move is not to the benefit of the country, it is to the detriment of the Senate, and it should be opposed. I take strong objection to  Mr Whitlam  's recent veiled threats to the Senate in an attempt to frighten us. It is a wonder that he does not grow up. 
-I know that he thinks that he is God. At the same time he must realise that we in this chamber are grown up. We know when people are trying to put over a bluff. Talk by  Mr Whitlam  or by anybody else will not frighten me. I will carry out the duty which I think is right. I hope that if this proposal to amend the Constitution goes before the people they will reply to it in similar vein to the case in which I think I played some part when the people rejected a recommendation of the previous Government when it wanted to break the nexus between the Houses, which would have affected the Senate. I fought strongly against that proposal.  Senator Wright, Senator Gair  and a few others- about ten of us- fought it. I said then that we would win and that we would beat the Government which was stupid to bring forward the proposal. What did we do? We gave the Government such a kick  in the neck  that it was not game to mention the subject afterwards. I hope that when this proposal goes before the people the Government will get the same reply. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria)  .36)- This Bill proposes a referendum on a constitutional amendment. If one examines the proposals, I think one finds that 2 significant arguments must be raised because they are the answers to the suggestions. The first is that the proposal is unnecessary. The second is that, because it is unnecessary, it is dangerous or it has dangerous implications. Why is it unnecessary? I think that one should look firstly at the reasons which are advanced for putting this proposal to the people. The simple place to which one goes to get that explanation is the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or the speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  The speeches are substantially the same. The only reason advanced by the Prime Minister and by  Senator Murphy  is that over the last 13 years we have had 8 elections. It is said that the only time that elections for the Senate and for the House of Representatives coincided was 1 96 1 . From that proposition it is argued that probably 8 elections are unnecessary, that they are expensive and that they are in effect abusing the electoral processes. 
I am one who believes that we should have elections each time an election can determine an issue or can determine who shall govern the country. One can make a fetish of referring to the representative principle and to involving the community, but I am not one who believes that it is a fetish to refer to those things. I believe, for example, in our judicial system and that we ought to have far more jury decisions on issues which go before the courts, not because judges are incompetent or inadequate to make decisions but because juries represent a community judgment on issues which must be decided. The involvement of people in our jury system has been over the years one of the reasons there has been a trust and a belief in the efficacy of our system of justice. Let us acknowledge now that in our electoral system the greater the opportunity which is provided for people to vote and to express judgments on issues, the greater satisfaction there will be in our electoral processes and in our whole system of government. 
I know that there is a tediousness, a tiresomeness and a sense of futility occasionally expressed when people must vote. I know the arguments which are raised. One year there is a House of Representatives election, another year there is a Senate election, and in between there is an election for possibly both Houses of a State Parliament. But if one examines that, why should there not be those elections? If one reflects upon why those elections are held, why ought not the justification to be readily expressed and readily accepted and why ought we not to say that this is the means by which we govern ourselves. 
I would say that an end should be put to the idea that there are too many elections. After all, those who have the power of government recognise that if people are asked unnecessarily on too many occasions, too frequently, to express an opinion as to which Party should be in power there will be a reaction against them because it is generally accepted throughout the community that governments have an obligation to govern and if they must race to the people from time to time, either to have a issue determined by way of a referendum or to put their own authority on the line, there is a likelihood that the public reaction will be that some other government will get on with the job and will not require such frequent commendation of what it is doing. 
The Prime Minister, as I have indicated, has used the argument that there are too many elections as the sole justification for this proposal. He believes that we should bring into line the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. He postulates as a sound principle that every 3 years there should be a House of Representatives election and that at the same time- at the same election- there should be an election for that half of the Senate for which an election is required at that time. I simply say that if that be the principle and if that be the objectivecertainly it has been the general position over the greater part of our history- it is very easy for the Prime Minister to achieve that objective without having to resort to a referendum. 
As  Senator Carrick  said and as other speakers said before him, it would be the easiest thing in the world for the Prime Minister to have a House of Representatives election at the same time as the coming Senate election. That would achieve the objective of bringing about the synchronisation which is desired. If, at some stage in the future, it should be the desire of the Prime Minister of the day to have a House of Representatives election at some time other than when the half Senate election would be held he would be able to do so. That flexibility is part of the Westminster system. It is a flexibility which is from time to time justified by the Prime Minister. One consequence of this amendment, if it were submitted to the people and carried, would be the denial of that flexibility. I think it is readily apparent that this Bill is not necessary to meet the objective which the Prime Minister set out as the objective for the holding and passing of this referendum. 
If the election is unnecessary, what are the dangers attending the holding of a referendum and what are the problems which may arise if it is passed? I suggest it is dangerous because it will mean that the independence of the Senate and therefore its ability to play its proper role in a 2- chamber system will be impaired. I appreciate that in putting forward this argument it may seem to ring somewhat hollowly against the proposition that if we were to have the elections together, as the Prime Minister may bring them together, it would be difficult to see what particular independent role of the Senate may survive. 
-Now that the snow storm has cleared I hope that the sun will shine through enough to let us have a little bit of clarity on this matter. I wish to ask a simple question of the Government. I ask: Why is it necessary for this question to be put to the people of this country? It is good to know that the 
Government is keen on helping local government finance its affairs. As one who served for over 30 years in local government- for 15 years as Mayor of my city, for 6 years as State  President  of local government associations and a term as Australian  President  of local government organisations- I can honestly say that I am very keen on assisting local government. It is good to know that the Government is of the mind to help local government with its financial affairs. But, having stated that it is prepared to do that, why does the Government not accept the simple method of providing this assistance to local government? At present the States control local government. As  Senator Gair,  a former Premier of my State of Queensland, said, local government is a State instrumentality. 
If the Commonwealth Government's referendum proposal were put to the people and passed what would happen? As each representation for assistance was put to the Federal Government from all parts of this very large continent of ours investigations would have to be made, engineering problems would have to be overcome, the cost would have to worked out and so on. Can honourable senators imagine the number of staff that the Commonwealth would have to employ to work on the various propositions that would be put forward by the local government authorities throughout Australia? 
Yes. As one who comes from north Queensland which is far removed from the city of Canberra, I look at the proposition on the basis that the remote areas of the Commonwealth probably would be on the outer as far as the Commonwealth department doing the work is concerned. To me it is a very simple matter; if the Government wants to help local government it has every avenue open to it to do so now. The State governments have their local departments and the engineering setup to ascertain whether propositions are suitable. They have the administrative, clerical, accounting and whatever other procedures are necessary. The States are close to the area and as a result have a better contact with the requirements of local governments of their States. 
Yes- with the Department of Main Roads and all the other instrumentalities.  Senator Gair  was not only Premier of Queensland but also Treasurer during part of the time during which I was mayor of the city of Mackay. I can say that I always recognised that his government- it was a Labor governmentplayed a very important part for local government by initiating subsidies not only for water and sewerage but also for projects such as mosquito control. I believe that the State government has this complete set-up ready for the Commonwealth Government to channel these funds to local government. I am all for local government getting as much money as it can because of the great difficulties it has in financing its requirements. However, I do not believe that we need to change the Constitution of this country to bring this about. To indicate what happens as a result of remoteness of control- I want it to be clearly understood that I make no reflection on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who is at the table, because, as I have said, I have a high regard for his ability and administrative capacity; but we are talking now in general terms of the Federal Government controlling and giving out funds for distant areas- we recently had a story revealed to us by the Auditor-General's Department, in particular details of turtle farming away up in the northern part of Australia. What a financial mess has been made. This perhaps is a result of the remoteness of control and other inefficiencies. Can honourable senators imagine what would happen if all the local government bodies of Australia were to put their requests through the Commonwealth Government for assistance for their requirements? I well remember from my earlier years in local government that the Federal Government did pass out money to the local authorities for certain specific reasons; if I remember rightly it was for projects for the unemployed and so on. That was worked in the way that I have suggested, the Commonwealth passing the money to the States, the States, because of their closer opportunity for investigation, setting out the requirements of each community. The whole thing went off very well indeed. 
Yes. This has been worked in this very way and to me it is as simple as can be. We have the set-up now- the Commonwealth with the money, the States with the instrumentalities to find out where it is best allocated and for distribution of the money, and the local government authorities to spend it and get the results to the people. What a perfect set-up. Why do we need to change the Constitution? It is all there. There is no need for a change. Therefore let the Commonwealth Government in its generosity now say: 'All right, we will pass it through the States to the local authorities'. I think we would all be very happy about that. Therefore I do not believe in troubling the people of Australia to vote when there is no necessity to do so. There is no necessity to change the Constitution in this regard, and in those circumstances, to save the people the trouble and the Commonwealth the expense, I propose to oppose the legislation. 
I present the forty-eighth report pf the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to an amendment to the Public Service (Parliamentary Officers) Regulations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave to give notice of a motion. 
I give notice that 3 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Public Service (Parliamentary Officers) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1973 No. 223, and made under the Public Service Act 1 922- 1 973, be disallowed. 
It is not worse in Queensland today.   
There is nothing to guarantee equal voting rights for all Australians. So the Government has decided, by means of these referendums, to allow the people to establish these rights once and for all. 
I can only say that the Prime Minister's carelessness with the truth is becoming increasingly evident on more and more occasions because that statement which I have quoted is a statement which is demonstrably incorrect. The proposed changes will not guarantee equal voting rights. They will not establish equal voting rights. All they will establish is an equality of population in electorates with an inequality of voting rights, which must be the concomitant of it. If there are migrants who are not able to vote, if there are children who are not able to vote and if there are Aborigines who have not yet enrolled, those people will comprise part of the population- the non-voting population- yet they will be the persons who will be counted in determining the equality of electorates. When one considers the protestations of one vote one value on earlier occasions and contrast those protestations with what is now proposed it is a fair thing to say that there is no means too base which this Government is not prepared to use to mislead the people of this country to secure the results which will perpetuate it in office. I hope by what I have said that that has been shown. The Opposition will reject this measure in this chamber. We hope that when it comes to the people, if the Government proceeds to the Governor-General to ask for it to be put before the people, it will be resoundingly defeated. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the dinner given in Peking on Sunday night by the Government of China, hosted by Premier Chou En-lai and Madam Mao, to leaders of the Australian Communist Party,  Mr Ted  Hill and  Mr Norm  Gallagher, and the statement reported in the Press as having been made at that dinner. What action has the Government taken with respect to that dinner? Is not the function clear evidence of the commitment of the Chinese Government to support these fraternal communist parties throughout the world? Will he make a statement on what this portends for Australia? 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs advise me of the work or duties an envoy to the Pope on behalf of Australia would have? Does he consider that enough work would be involved in such a position to keep a former very busy parliamentarian occupied? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate not aware - 

 Senator Cant- You talked to Bjelke-Petersen last night. You are the one from whom he gets his advice in Canberra. 
You are paying me a great compliment. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: How does the Government reconcile its statements that  Senator Gair  ceased to be a member of this Senate on 14 March with the fact that  Senator Gair  made a statement in Brisbane last night in which, as reported, he claimed that he ceased to be a senator as of yesterday morning, Wednesday, 3 April. 
-Do you not want me to speak in this place? 
1 have a right as a senator. The Whip is kicking up a shindy about it,  Mr President. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I was very surprised to hear  Senator Gietzelt  say that it is right to do the sort of thing that has been done in the case of  Senator Gair.  People who believe in upholding a right spirit in Parliament would not regard that as an expression to be voiced in this chamber. I am one of those who believe that if the process of Parliament sets a certain course that is the right course to adopt. The Senate has been set up so that half its membership comes up for election every 3 years. That was arranged for a specific purpose. Whilst the other chamber changes more or less completelythat is, the government moves from one side to the other when there is a change- in this chamber that does not take place so far as the composition of the Senate is concerned. Our founding fathers specially provided that there would not be a complete change of thinking in this chamber as in the other. There is a carryover of membership from a previous 3-year term. 1 do not think it is right that that system should be altered by us as a matter of expediency. 
There is no doubt that the deal done with  Senator Gair  was intended specifically to upset the particular purpose to which regard was had by the founding fathers. Normally 5 senators from each State come up for election, but in this case it would have meant that 6 senators would have been elected to represent Queensland. This was not done to observe a high thinking parliamentary standard. It was done especially to obtain a gain of one seat in Queensland's representation in this chamber so that the composition of the parties in the Senate might be changed materially. 
From a political point of view it might be regarded as clever thinking or good strategy, but from a parliamentary point of view it is very bad. When people know that the action is being taken for a certain purpose it is bad for them to acquiesce and to operate in this way. There is no doubt that when  Senator Gair  was offered and accepted the position the intention was not to get the highest possible ambassadorial representation in Ireland. It was done purely out of political expediency, and in those circumstances I think it was very bad. My own view is that the people appointed to ambassadorial posts should be chosen on the highest possible basis so that that is the type of representation we have in other countries. I an not degrading  Senator Gair  in any way. He was Premier of my own State of Queensland for a number of years. He also has been a senator for a number of years. I am not speaking of him personally. But it seems to me that for such a post to be filled out of political expediency is the wrong way to choose an ambassador for this country. 
I know that the tiredness suited the Government of the day. There is no doubt about it. From a political point of view it probably was considered to be a very shrewd and clever move; but, as honourable senators know, it did not come off. 
I do not apologise for ringing up the Premier of Queensland. I believe that in doing so I was frustrating an action based on ulterior motives, from a parliamentary point of view. I am very pleased that anything I was able to do in that regard was successful. 
The inside story is very simple and straightforward. It was just a matter of letting the Premier of Queensland know that in this way the usual process of election of the Senate would be altered. In those circumstances it was necessary for him to use his State powers to ensure that what the founding fathers had intended for this chamber would still remain. 
No, I do not have prawn parties or booze parties. I happen to be a pineapple juice, orangeade and lemonade drinker. If other people want to be silly and booze themselves up, that is their business. It is outside my jurisdiction. In fairness to the Premier of Queensland I wish to say that I have the greatest admiration for the speed with which he acted when he knew what was taking place, for all the effort he put into the matter and eventually for restoring the situation to the same basis as the founding fathers of this Commonwealth adopted. 
I entered this debate because I feel that the whole event should not have happened. I am very pleased that the Government's efforts have been frustrated. I hope that it will be a lesson to governments of all political colours and that they will learn that this sort of tactic should not be used. I am not in favour of its being used by a government of my own political thinking or by any other government because I think it is a very wrong practice. Therefore I am glad that what was thought would take place has not taken place. It seems now that  Senator Gair  will achieve the position of Ambassador to Ireland but the Government will not achieve its aim of securing the sixth Senate seat in Queensland in the way it hoped. 
Despite what my friends on the Government side say, I feel confident that the action taken is so watertight that what the Premier of Queensland has done will stay put. I am quite confident that 5 senators will be chosen on one ballot paper. It may be that one senator will have to be chosen on a separate ballot paper to make up the 6 senators. 
I am not anticipating any High Court decision because I do not believe that a High Court decision will be made. I believe that the decision will be made by this chamber and that the decision that this chamber makes is the one that will be recognised. 
I regret this whole incident. I regret that it was felt necessary to make this approach and that Senate Gair was prepared to accept the position in the circumstances. I am very pleased that the situation has not developed in the way that the Government hoped. I feel very happy about any part that I have played in frustrating the Government's effort. In conclusion I say once again that these tactics, irrespective of the political colour of the government that uses them, are bad. I think that we should discourage these tactics as much as possible. Contrary to the view held by  Senator Gietzelt,  I do not believe it is a thing we should aim for. I believe it is the sort of thing we should protest against and prohibit wherever possible. 
I ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact, as reported in the Press, that the Government is considering the purchase of the American M60 tank or the German Leopard tank? If so, why is the American M60 tank being considered when I understand that military movements control has reported against such purchase? Is the Government not aware that the M60 is so large and so heavy that it is not transportable in Australia by road or by railway, excepting the trans-continental section, and that Australian bridges are not strong enough to carry such a tank? Does the Government not remember that the Centurion tank was too large and untransportable? Is not the M60 both larger and heavier than the Centurion? 
I present the following petition from 342 citizens of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the hostel proposed to be established by Aboriginal Hostels Limited in the premises presently known as Elan' Private Hotel, 155 Moray Street, New Farm is in conflict with the amenity of the area, 
And whereas this area is occupied to a large extent by aged and retired people living in private dwellings, home units and nursing homes, 
Your Petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the Government, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to prevent the establishment of such hostels in the aforesaid area. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave- We are now having quite a deal of talk about legislation coming before the Senate and about the sitting hours for today. I consider that honourable senators came here this week with the intention of meeting during certain sitting hours. Those hours have been extended. If further legislation is to come before us and if legislation is to be debated properly, why cannot we come back in the week after Easter and finish it off? I do not think that the legislation should be put through the Senate like sugar cane tossed through a chaff cutter. I think that we should have proper deliberation, irrespective of whether the Bills have been before the Senate previously or whether they are new legislation. Certainly, we do not want to make a farce of the Senate. We want some time for this legislation to be passed through the Senate. We have not yet received the Supply Bills. I think that they are Bills to which some time should be devoted. Rather than jam everything in and extend the hours of sitting this week when everybody has made arrangements, I think that it would be much better if we came back the week after Easter. 
I refer, firstly, to a point raised by  Senator Wright  and replied to by  Senator Little. Senator Wright  claimed that everybody should be given an opportunity to nominate for this election. It was a surprise to me to hear  Senator Little  say that this one and that one cannot be considered. 
The point I am trying to make is that the aim of this country should be to give everybody the opportunity to nominate for this election. If a man who is a member of a State parliament wishes to nominate and he is required to resign from that Parliament a certain number of days before he submits his nomination, I think that is a special consideration. In an emergency election such as this, one probably is not given enough notice of the election. Whilst the possibility of a double dissolution or the dissolution of the House of Representatives was being talked about, there was no guarantee of an election. I think that that aspect ought to be taken into consideration. 
A great deal of nonsense has been talked about the Senate's lack of power. I think  Senator McManus  demonstrated very ably this afternoon the reason why the Senate has the power that it has. When the Constitution was written and the Senate was created, it was given power to do certain things. The fact that that power has not been exercised does not mean that that power should not be exercised. If a special circumstance arises, there is no reason why that power should not be used if this chamber feels that it should be used. Those who are elected to the Senate are elected by the voters in the same way as are the members of the other chamber. The Constitution is really wrapped around the Senate in that, if the creation of the Senate had not been agreed to in order to satisfy the various States, there would not have been an Australian Parliament. The establishment of the Senate enabled the Australian Parliament to be created. 

 Senator Negus, in the heat of the moment, let himself go in a very strong fashion. He said that senators on this side of the chamber were not game to vote against the decisions of their party.  Senator Negus  said that he has been here for a fairly long time. He has been here for almost 3 years. I am now entering my twenty-fifth year in the Parliament. In the time that I have been here I have seen another double dissolution. I have seen quite a lot of water flow through this chamber politically. In reply to the claim of  Senator Negus  that senators on this side of the chamber are not prepared to vote against the decisions taken by their party, let me say that during the time I have been here I have voted according to my conscience. When we were in government I had many arguments with my own Party.  Senator Wright,  who sits in front of me, was in a similar position. 
That does not matter to me. As far as I am concerned, the Liberal Party at home has always been true to the core. When my name has been submitted for re-endorsement I have always been re-endorsed overwhelmingly. So has  Senator Wright.  One of the cardinal differences between the senators on this side of the chamber and those on the other side is that we are free to vote according to our conscience; and I will never sell that right. Throughout my 24 years in this place- I am now into my twentyfifth year- I have always exercised my right to vote in accordance with my conscience. I want to make this clear, because when statements such as that made by Senate Negus are made I think it is necessary to clear the air. Although some people may not be prepared to vote against the decisions taken by their party, I am not one of them, and I know that  Senator Wright  is not one of them. The Opposition Whip,  Senator Young,  can confirm that on a number of occasions Liberal Party senators have deviated from the party line. I have no doubt that that comment applies also to our partner, the Australian Country Party. Although  Senator Negus  probably made those remarks in the heat of the moment, I want to make it clear that what he claimed is not the case. 
-This debate is one which should be of serious interest to this chamber. I think that those who believe that parliament is the focal point of democracy believe that senators should have a reasonable opportunity to speak and to ask questions. When my colleague from Queensland,  Senator Lawrie,  raised this matter I am quite sure that he did so with the object of having an opportunity to ask questions. Sometimes it is more difficult for a back bencher to ask a question than it is for other people who seem to enjoy a privileged position in this Parliament, some of whom I do not think should be privileged. As a consequence, it is sometimes difficult for people on the so-called back benches to ask questions as often as they like. Therefore, I think that every opportunity should be given to honourable senators to ask genuine questions which seek to elicit information. I know that a variety of questions are asked and that some politically loaded questions are asked. But there are other questions that are asked because of a desire to obtain information. I think that a properly conducted question time is one of the most interesting periods of a parliamentary sitting. For that reason I think it is wrong to limit the amount of questioning to what might be termed a very short period of time. In those circumstances I feel that it would be of advantage to this chamber and to everybody concerned if a reasonable amount of time were allotted to honourable senators in which to ask questions. Taking the heat out of the issue and getting away from other matters, I believe that if we were to concentrate on that aspect we would, in order to give honourable senators every opportunity to represent their States, devote the fullest possible amount of time to this very interesting section of our Parliamentary life. 
-We have heard quite a lot of debate in regard to this particular piece of legislation. I feel that it is a type of legislation which should be opposed. It is not being opposed because of any indoctrination that has come to me through the Legislative Council of South Australia. I would not know very much about that particular chamber. I am surprised that  Senator Hall  thinks that the South Australian Legislative Council has such an influence beyond his own State. I oppose the Bill because I believe that the Government is introducing it, not on the basis of the high sounding phrases that have been given to us but, as  Senator Townley  has said, in order to dig itself into office for a longer period. 
As one who has been round about the political field for quite a long time it is no insult to say that parties, when in office, try to keep themselves in office for a longer period. No party, despite what has been said about other States, did more to try to achieve this in the way of gerrymanders than did the Queensland Labor Government. The 
Queensland Labor Government set this example in no uncertain terms.  Senator Lawrie  mentioned 10 seats on the western boundary which had about 4,000 voters to each electorate. 
-He may not have been bad,  Senator Brown,  but this example was set before Thomas Playford came into the political situation. Therefore I think that anybody who is fair will say that the Queensland Labor Government was one which set the example. 
Sitting suspended from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr President, before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. I had remarked that it was suggested that we on the Opposition side had no doubt been tainted or affected by the Legislative Council of South Australia. With all due respect to my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Davidson,  who is sitting beside me, those of us who come from Queensland would not know much about the Legislative Council in South Australia. I think that honourable senators must give due regard to the importance of these various areas of politics. 
I also mentioned that there was a suggestion about gerrymanders. It was suggested that the reason why we support the retention of the 20 per cent allowance in the division of electorates is because of a gerrymander idea that we have. I pointed out that from my experience in public life I believed that the champions of gerrymanders came from my own State of Queensland when a Labor government was in office for a very long period. I illustrated that by giving the classic example of the 10 seats in western Queensland which the Labor government created not with the idea of giving that area greater representation but because it had a remarkable leaning towards Labor. If 1 remember correctly, the people in all 10 seats returned Labor parliamentarians. Of course, we have received some advice in this chamber. The newly elected  Senator Hall  has more or less told us that we on this side of the chamber do not know very much about political matters and political thinking and that we are all astray. 
-I know that he is a former Premier, but that does not mean that he has a complete monopoly on political nous and political thinking. I listened to the reprimand that he gave us- not that he has heard everybody on this side of the chamber speak on this matter. If  Senator Hall  takes the view that this Bill has been introduced with the highest idealistic political intentions, it might well be said that he is a little bit naive because with all due respect - 
Of course it is a shocking thing to say. Honourable senators opposite think that most things we say in politics are shocking, but when we say those things it is often a case of rocking the boat on the Government side. But really one has to have a little bit more political nous than to suggest that there was an idealistic intention in introducing this Bill. We have to admit that when parties get into Government their aim is to keep themselves in Government for as long as possible. I do not think that there is any lack of intention in that direction on the part of the present Government. I regard the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  as a very good Minister and I think that he carries out his duties in a very capable manner, but I do not think that if he were to speak from his heart he would argue with you if you said that he was what is termed a 'numbers' man. There is no question about that. What he said about this legislation giving the Country Party a few headaches or heartaches was an indication of his intention in this regard. Therefore, I believe that we have to look at this question in a deeper way than the way in which it has been presented to us by some parliamentarians who would like to see the present electoral situation changed. 

 Senator Hall also mentioned that we went to an election and that the people returned the Government with this mandate, or whatever it is termed. It is true that the people returned the Government, but the election that took place was an election for both Houses of the Parliament, not for one House of the Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself requested the double dissolution. I think we have to recognise that this chamber operates not in a spirit of obstruction but in a spirit of what the Senate is here for. The people of this Commonwealth elected this chamber, and the Government did not get a majority in the Senate. The people who vote for members of the Senate are the same people who vote for members of the House of Representatives. As the parties in the Senate have been returned evenly divided, no one can say that this chamber has been told by the public that they want it to pass these Bills, nor can it be said that this chamber is offering undue obstruction if it persists with or believes that a certain stand should be taken on this Commonwealth Electoral Bill. I know that a lot has been said about mandates and policies. I will not mention the name of the person concerned, but I had a talk with a very intelligent and learned person from the Government side after the 1972 election and - 
With all due respect, I think that there are some very capable senators on the Government side. I spoke to this particular gentleman about the 1972 policy of the Labor Party. I have had arguments about this matter with members of my own Party and with many other people. The trouble is that too few of our parliamentarians are down to earth and talk to the people. I asked this gentleman whether he could tell me the main points of the 1972 policy put forward by the Prime Minister. If I remember rightly, more than 100 points of policy were put forward. After scratching his head he looked embarrassed and said: 'As a matter of fact, I cannot tell you '. 
This is not against the Prime Minister. It is a question of how the public view these things. I have talked to people after policy speeches have been given by leaders not only on the Government side but also on my side. I have asked them: 'What part of the policy do you remember'? Other than those who have a specific interest in politics, mostly people cannot tell you what part of a policy they remember. Can anybody tell me that the Bill that is before us tonight and the rest of the Bills in respect of which the Prime Minister sought a double dissolution were issues in the last election? Of course they were not. Who talked about them? The situation arose as a result of the Senate intending to disallow a money Bill because of the Gair episode. Then it shifted to the granting of a double dissolution on the ground that the Senate had rejected these Bills. Was the Gair affair talked about much during the election campaign? Were these Bills talked about much during the election campaign? Of course they were not. Actually, our side of politics made inflation the issue, and this question was later taken up by the Government. Inflation was the great issue in the election. What I am trying to say is that it is about time that we learned a little more about what the people think. The average person in the community could not tell you much about these Bills or about what is contained in policy speeches. 
People make up their minds on general factors in party politics. People say: 'You are a good chap', or they like your Party, or something like that. What we have to remember is that the Australian electorate is not a greatly sophisticated electorate. The people are simple in their political thinking. It is unfortunate that most people do not take a closer interest in political matters. 
Therefore, under these circumstances I have no hesitation in looking at this Bill in the same way as I looked at it previously. The composition of the Senate is exactly the same as it was before the election in that the Government has not got a majority in this chamber. Then I am entitled to ask: 'Is this Bill what I think it should be from the electoral distribution point of view'? If I think it is not, then I should say so. It is not a matter of obstruction; it is a matter of thinking. As regards the distribution of electorates represented in the other chamber, I make no bones about saying that it is not just a matter of the number of electorates; it is not just a matter of one vote one value; it is a matter of taking the amalgamation effect of the electorates of this Commonwealth. I believe it is not just individuals that should be counted. Various factors need to be considered. As a consequence, our electorates should be made up in such a way that they represent not only the interests of the various people but also the effect of the various industries in them, so that there is an affinity of interest between the electors, the electorate and the industries concerned. 
Consider my own State of Queensland. It is a large State and we know in it are certain areas that have an intense interest in one industry. In another area, as  Senator McAuliffe,  a fellow Queenslander would know, there is a completely different outlook as far as industry is concerned. In designating those electorates it is not just a matter of considering equal numbers of people; it is the people associated with those industries and their livelihood. We have to recognise the fact that industries in country areas do not, in the main, create the density of population that you get in the cities where industries are more particularly of the manufacturing type. I do not believe that any electoral system should be devised in such a way that the people of the large capital cities dominate the political thinking in our parliamentary chambers and more or less push other areas, such as primary areas, into the position of having practically no voice in our Parliament. 
Primary industries can be, and have been, of vital value to this country. In days gone by we fought to earn enough oversea credits. One of the very great difficulties facing us was to have enough overseas credits. It is the same as an individual who does not earn enough to pay his or her way. This country has to earn enough overseas in order to pay for the things we want to buy from overseas. Primary industries have played a very important part and are still doing so. I refer not only to our rural and agricultural primary industries, the growing of crops and livestock, but also to mining which has done a remarkable job in helping to build up overseas credits for this country. If it were not for our rural industry and our mining industry I think that this country would be in a very difficult position. 
Therefore anybody who has a fair mind about representation in this Parliament should realise that despite the sparsity of population in some areas the people living there should have some weighting in their favour in electing people to this Parliament. If that is not done we will find, as I said before, that the great concentration of population in particular the large capital cities will mean that people in country areas will hardly have a voice in this Parliament. I do not think that any honourable senator, considering this matter in a fair minded manner, would feel that it would be right for people in our country areas not to have such a voice. I am sure that any of us who were associated with some industry that had no chance of representation in this Parliament would feel the same way. 
Phrases like 'one man one vote ' sound good. It can be said that they are the ideal but you can never get the ideal. The Government could set out the electorates tomorrow in such a way as to represent one man one vote. If it could be made perfect, the Government would do so but it would not be very long before the expiration of the 3 years that honourable senators on the Government side are talking about and that redistribution would have lost its effect because of the changes that take place in the distribution of our population. We have to recognise that the principle of one man one vote is one of the dreams that you cannot hold to all the time. 
I want to demonstrate to honourable senators that the Government does not believe that what is represented in this Bill is the perfect thing so far as electorates are concerned. I refer to the referendum which this Government put to the people. By that referendum the Government wanted to bring in not just the electors but everybody who lived in the electorates- man, woman and child, whether voters or not. That was what was put before the people. We realise that the Government, in bringing this legislation forward, is moving half way towards what it wants but it would have preferred to go much further the other way and to have everybody, adults and children, counted in the electorates. When you consider this matter clearly you find that there are very serious defects. Once again you would find a greater concentration of electorates in the capital cities. You would find a greater proportion of seats in the capital city areas with fewer voters in proportion to other areas because unquestionably they would contain more people of non-voting status than would electorates in country areas. 
Because you get an aggregation of population there. You have more families and more migrants. You have a greater concentration of people looking for work because there are more opportunities for work in those areas. There is no question that one of the unfortunate things that has been happening in country areas is that people have been drifting from them to the cities because of the opportunities offered for work, the convenience, and so on. I think that the concentration of electoral power in the capital cities will have an increasing adverse effect on country areas. If there is not to be a fair balance in the distribution of electoral representation between country and city areas, there will be fewer voices speaking for the country and more people moving to city areas. 
I feel that this Bill is not really in the true interests of this nation. The present margin in determining the size of electorates provides an opportunity for reasonable representation. I know that there is anxiety on the part of the Government to get this legislation through. I have noticed over a period of years that governments often introduce what might be called gerrymanders, things that are slightly in their favour. But things do not always turn out in the way that they are expected to do. I can remember when the change was made to provide for the members of this House to be elected by proportional representation. I think that was a very good move. However some of us are not political fools. We are not infants and we do not go around with our eyes and ears shut. We know that at that time the then Government thought that it was making this House safe for a long time for the Labor Party. 
I agree that was a very good move. It was the best thing that had happened from the point of view of this chamber. The dogs are barking and a few people are talking, but there is no question that some very decent fellows in the Labor Party felt that by bringing in proportional representation the Labor Party would remain in office in this chamber for a long time. But what happened? The whole question comes down to political thinking, a bit of political nous and a little bit of experience. We often find when these things are done that there is a surge and suddenly there is a landslide, and when landslides take place mountain tops move. Even though a government carries a gerrymander, sooner or later a crisis arises and it goes out of office. 
A redistribution should be carried out on a reasonably fair basis in order to get the best possible effect. To my way of thinking, electorates based on the variation that we now have give the sparsely populated areas more chance of representation than would be the case under the system that the Government now proposes. I think that those people are deserving of consideration and that they should have in this Parliament a voice which more directly expresses their views than would be the case, in the main, if their representatives came from a greater aggregation of population and did not really convey their interests. I want to remind you,  Mr President,  that this Bill was not fought over during the debates before the double dissolution. It was not talked about. Under those circumstances we on this side of the Senate can be chided, I suppose, for lacking in political nous and experience. New people are inclined to lecture and so on, but I think we have a right to speak for the people who elected us. I believe that this Bill is not the right type of Bill for a redistribution of electorates. The existing system is the one that gives a reasonably fair opportunity for the people to be represented. 
My Party policy is so good, as  Senator Milliner  knows, that as leader of the Senate team in Queensland I was successful in having 6 senators elected. 
I am sure that he must have. 
-My policy is the retention of the existing style of distribution of electors. I oppose the Bill. I have no hesitation in saying so. I do not feel that I am an obstructionist. I am expressing the views which I sincerely hold. 
-I have listened with a great deal of interest to the debate on this very important question which is fundamental to this House. Today I was amazed to hear a newcomer to this chamber,  Senator Steele  Hall of the Liberal Movement of South Australia, chastise us once again on the ground that this is not a States House. It is rather amazing that  Senator Steele  Hall has come into this chamber and that on each occasion that he has spoken he has spoken in a most bitter manner such as I think none of us in politics should indulge in. He has castigated senators generally about standards and about this and that and so on, and particularly those on this side of the House. Of course, sometimes people who are new here have a great opinion of themselves; but probably when they have been here for a certain length of time they will find their level. I am one who resents the bitter and caustic nature of his remarks. He stated that we on this side of the chamber, because our Leader happened to write something to the Press, are more or less bound hand and foot to a party decision. I have been in this chamber for the same length of time as  Senator Wright  and in that period of almost 25 years - 
The people of Queensland did not say so. 
-They are intelligent people. They have sunshine in their minds, they have very clear thinking and they are free of pollution generally in their State. Because of that, as the leader of the team in that State, I was the one leader who had 6 senators returned to this chamber. The people of Queensland still think that I have the right to be here. I am here. As I said before, I appreciated the statement today of the  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Webster)  when in his speech he refuted  Senator Hall's  accusations, made in his Labor style, in which he accused us of being just little lambs who abide by the party decision. My Victorian Country Party colleague instanced the fact that  Senator Wright,  who sits in front of me, and I on a number of occasions voted against our own Government when we were in office. 

 - Senator McLaren is also an infant in this chamber in terms of length of service. Whenever I voted against my Government I voted against it because I did not think it was right. In the 25 years that I have been here I have never sold my conscience. There has never been any Gair affair in my realm as far as my political life is concerned. I believe in honesty and service. I know that there are people of very good calibre and character on the Government side. I am not one who believes that everyone on our side is everything good. I believe there are good people on both sides. I want to say that the people on the other side will not do what I have done, that is, vote against their own Government even if they think their Government is wrong.  Senator Hall  just talked a lot of tripe; he does not know. He has been stuck in that little State of South Australia which seems to be so far removed from the movement of people along the eastern coast of Australia. 
Throughout my years here I have stood up for the Senate. Instead of coming into this place and castigating the Senate as a new senator, I have always done in this place what I have done in municipal life and elsewhere. I have tried to leave it a better place than I have found it. My statement to  Senator Hall  would be that if he would concentrate on trying to develop the Senate chamber instead of being a critic of it we would get some positive results and some positive outlet from him. 
The Minister is not one of the blokes who I think is not a decent senator, because he has a good outlook on the Senate. But sometimes the honourable senator has to express a Party view. The Minister is an honest bloke and I know that he thinks what I am saying is true. The Minister was a member, and a very good member, of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances when I was the  Chairman. 
Instead of trying to pull this place to pieces honourable senators ought to be trying to build it into an even better place. I believe that those of us who are opposing this legislation because of the need to preserve the Senate are taking a view more in keeping with what was intended by the people who drew up the Constitution of this country and set up the 2 Houses of Parliament. On 7 June last year I made a speech from which I ask to be allowed to make some copious extracts, because that speech did involve a lot of research. The Senate was established to protect the States and no compact would have been arrived at if the independence and sovereignty of the States were not recognised and preserved. The founding fathers ensured that the constitutional rights of the States were maintained and protected by providing in the Constitution equality of representation of the original States on the basis that the colonies prior to Federation were equal constitutionally and politically. 
The Constitution provides in section 122 that the Parliament may allow representation of Commonwealth Territories 'in either House of the Parliament to the extent and  on  the terms which it thinks fit'. But was it intended that Territories should be allowed full representation in the Senate? Certainly, under the proposed legislation, it is not suggested that any Territory representatives in the Senate should be taken into account in determining the number of members of the House of Representatives. In that respect any such representatives are not to be considered senators. But such Territory representatives in the Senate under this Bill are to have full voting rights and could as non-State representatives hold the balance of power in an institution set up to safeguard the interests of the States- a principle embodied in the Constitution without which Federation would not have been accomplished. Although provision was made in the Constitution for representation of Territories in the Parliament, our founding fathers did not envisage that such representatives would have voting rights. In fact, concern was expressed at the constitutional discussions that the provision did not preclude such representatives having the right to vote. Giants in those constitutional discussions such as Deakin, Brown, Barton and Braddon are recorded in convention debates which indicate that thinking. 
-It does not matter. They were the people who founded the Parliament. Practically every time the government of the day has gone to the country to alter the Constitution the people have said 'No'. They said it in December and they said it again on 18 May. It is rather interesting that the question as to whether the Senate and House of Representatives elections should be held concurrently, which was one of the principal matters that the Government put before the people, was rejected. Yet the Government is trying, in this Bill, to apply that principle in regard to territorial representatives. The Government is trying to have the election of territorial senators held on the same day as the election for the House of Representatives. What an odd sort of position we would have if this were agreed to. We would have senators going out at one time and the intended territorian senators, as one might term them, coming out at another time. 
Unlike our founding fathers who were concerned to establish the Senate as the Federal part of the Parliament- 'the organ of the States, the visible representative of the continuity, independence, and reserved autonomy of the States, linking them together as integral parts of the Federal Union'- the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam leaves no doubt that, as one honourable member of another place expressed recently, he 'is hell-bent on completely abolishing the States themselves'. Of course, in the process and incidental thereto, he is attempting to destroy this institution which was established to protect the interests of the States. Protection of those interests should be the first and foremost duty and responsibility of each and every person in this chamber who calls himself a senator. 
The Bill is a political ruse to destroy the whole character of the Senate. It is an attempt to intrude non-State representatives into the Senate with terms of service the same as the terms of members of the House of Representatives, with elections to be held at the same time as general elections for the House of Representatives and with any vacancies of such representatives being filled at an election as though it were a byelection for a vacancy in the House of Representatives. This scheme must be seen as the real threat that it is to the independence of the Senate. It is the thin edge of an insidious wedge being relentlessly employed by those bent on the wrecking of our federal union and the destruction of our sovereign States. The Prime Minister has recently made it quite plain that he wants no truck with any of the States. He believes in a unitary system and his actions indicate that he is out to attain that end, if given the chance, in as short a time as possible. 
If we allow this Bill to pass we will be sounding the death knell of the States and our federation. As well, we would be endorsing the present Government's plan to emasculate the Senate and destroy its status, independence and continuity. This Bill, as already mentioned, requires the proposed representatives to be taken to election at each House of Representatives election. Such a proposal would make destitute the system of proportional representation instituted by a former Labor Government for Senate elections, which system has provided in the Senate a true reflection of the political feeling in the States. We know full well Prime Minister Whitlam 's burning desire to take half the Senate out at each House of Representatives electionor is it his intention to take all the Senate to election with the lower House and so completely destroy the Senate by making it a replica of the House of Representatives? Of course the people threw this back. 
I am not short. It could be that such a move would suit the purpose of certain members of the Labor Party, which still retains in its platform its plank to abolish the Senate. 
-Senator Ian Wood, last year. I am repeating it. 
I am repeating it because it is material which should be re-recorded. Is it believed that altruistic considerations prompted the Government to initiate this legislation so as to enable the electorally discriminated against people of the Territories to be adequately represented in Parliament or could it be that the Government believes that it may be able to gain control of the Senate with the non-State representatives? Should this happen, of course, there would be no barrier- and this is importantto increasing, by amending legislation, the number of representatives for the Territories to whatever number was desired and thereby kill the identity of the Senate as a State's House. 
As honourable senators know, our parliamentary system is similar in many ways to the system in the United States. In the United States there is a Senate and a House of Representatives and there have been arguments about the Capital Territory there having representation in the Senate. This is a very important point. This Bill, by providing representation for Territories, could as effectively destroy the influence of the smaller States as it could accord more representation to larger States. 
-Yes, and the honourable senator should have remembered it. 
It is too good to be incorporated in Hansard. This was the argument advanced in the United States- this is a very important point, particularly in relation to our own legislation- when it was proposed in 1967 that the District of Columbia, the Seat of Government of the United States with a population of over 800,000 people, be given representation in the United States Senate. The proposal was defeated, and in dissenting reports on the proposal before the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary - 

 - Mr President, I appreciate your ruling. This is a quotation connected with the argument that was advanced in the United States. As I was saying, the proposal was defeated, and in dissenting reports on the proposal before the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary it was stated: 
The people of the District of Columbia should have both a voice and vote in the Congress. However, it is neither prudent nor practical to treat the District as a State. It is not a State. It should not be. It should remain the Capital City of all America. 
The same applies in Canberra. The report continued: 
So long as every State is like every other State, equality of suffrage is not destroyed by admitting a new State to the Union. But is the same true when a non-State is involved? The purpose of the proviso- no State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senatewas to furnish a forum where States with smaller populations could yet exert influence. That purpose is defeated as effectively by according senatorial representation to a non-State as by according more representation to a larger State. 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition, and may direct a  Senator to  discontinue his speech. 
My point is that this speech has already been delivered 12 months ago and it is contained in Hansard. The honourable senator is just repeating it word for word from Hansard. He could save the time of the Senate by asking for the speech to be incorporated in Hansard or, as was suggested earlier, he should rely on his memory or vary the speech in some way in order to make it more interesting or less tedious. So I appeal to you,  Mr President,  to uphold the point of order under standing order 42 1. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  As you know, I have been interspersing quotations with other observations. I had said that the last quotation came from the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary. Therefore, it is a very important quotation and one which a person would not be expected to recite from memory. It has particular importance in this debate because in that instance they wanted Senate representation for the District of Columbia, as they term it, but they did not get it because of the particular circumstances which applied there. Similar circumstances apply here in Canberra. Another small quotation is very interesting. It reads:   the Senate represents States, the House represents people. This distinction is the foundation of our federal systemgovernments within a government, sovereignties within a sovereignty. This principle has served us too well to be eroded by an amendment such as that now before the House. 
I believe that that applies to the Senate in this Australian Parliament. As I have said, we have a similar setup to America in that we have a House of Representatives and also a Senate. In America they apparently appreciate the necessity to keep their Senate on a true States basis, and if we representatives of the States have the true interests of the States, I believe that we should take cognisance of this fact. If we do what this legislation wants us to do, we will start to destroy the Senate as I believe it was intended to be established when the Constitution was framed. Although my colleagues on the Opposition side might have been a bit touched by the repetition of a quotation that I made in a speech a year ago, I think that it contains a lot of information of which honourable senators should be reminded so that they might get a clearer interpretation of what is suggested by this legislation. I believe that if they apply the right thinking to this legislation they will vote against it. I believe that there is a duty on those who are charged with the responsibility of looking after this chamber as was intended to vote against this legislation. 
I enter this debate because I think there is a matter of parliamentary principle to be considered.  Senator Wright  has said: 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal of allowances payable to Ministers of State tabled in the Senate on 24 July be disapproved; 
That the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal of salaries and allowances payable to members of Parliament tabled in the Senate on 24 July be disapproved; 
That the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal on the remuneration payable to officers of the First Division of the Public Service and holders of statutory offices tabled in the Senate on 24 July be disallowed. 
The Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 states: 
If either House of the Parliament, within 1 5 sitting days of that House after a copy of determination has been laid before that House, passes a resolution disapproving of the determination, then- 
if the determination has not come into operation- the determination shall not come into operation; or 
if the determination has come into operation- the determination shall not have any force or effect in respect of a period on or after the day on which the resolution was passed. 

 Senator Wright last night indicated his intention to move a motion on this matter. I want to be quite frank that I had in my mind an intention to move a similar motion. I discussed it with my own leader last night and my intention was to move a motion this morning. Last night  Senator Hall  sought leave to move a motion just before the Senate adjourned but leave was not granted. Earlier in the evening when the Bill concerning this matter was before the  Senator, Senator Wright  indicated that he would move a motion. In those circumstances I felt that he should have the right to move a motion today. As I said, I intended myself moving a motion on this matter. But  Senator Wright  had indicated his intention earlier. 
Because  Senator Wright  moved the motion I feel he should have some say as to when the matter is brought on for debate. Those of us who have served on the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances for many yearsmany of the Senators in this House have done so- will agree that whenever notice has been given for the disallowance of a regulation time has always given so that ample preparation could be made and various aspects could be looked at. I feel that in this particular case we have a similar characteristic. It has been said that this matter must be decided today. I do not know why there is such a terrific urgency. If a person desires to take a day or so to prepare his case, to go into the matter more fully and to study the subject I think that this Parliament should allow him to do so. I do not think it is incumbent upon us, if a senator does not wish to debate immediately a motion which he has moved, providing he is not hanging back unduly, to force him to debate the matter immediately. To me that is rather autocratic so far as the other senators are concerned. I feel that those of us who have known  Senator Wright  over the years and those who have served with him know that there is usually no hesitancy on his part in tackling any project which he has in mind. Furthermore I think it can be said of him that he has never shirked the responsibility of doing what he feels is the right thing. I feel that when he asks that this matter be deferred until Tuesday- I do not think it an unduly long time- for him to consider the matter he should be allowed to do so. In those circumstances I feel that we, as a chamber, should give him this consideration. 
The particular question with which we are now dealing has been talked about and debated in various places for at least some days. I think that if other senators in this chamber have had the opportunity of looking into this matter, discussing and debating it for one or two days or longer, then in fairness we on this side of the House and senators generally should have the opportunity of going into this matter more fully. There is no doubt that some people take a long time to consider these things and to make up their minds. I have made up my mind because I regard this period and the situation that has developed is very dangerous as far as Australia is concerned. We have turned into a very difficult economic situation. Once inflation gets a gallop on in any country, it becomes very dangerous. 
-I believe that my Party's attitude on this matter will be a sensible one. 
I do not want my friend  Senator McAuliffe  from Queensland to become misinformed. I heard the honourable senator and  Senator Milliner  make some interjections when I raised a point of order earlier.  Senator Hall  graciously withdrew the remark he made at that time and I accepted his withdrawal. I heard something about politicking and that I was an expert. The name Casey was mentioned, the name of a former Labor member of Mackay. I never supported  Mr Casey  on a matter of politics. 
1 was not there for any ballot but I believe that the party decision will be one of great moment to the people of this nation. I hope it will find approval in hearts and minds of the people of this country. 
I was not there but I do not think there were any ballot papers. This is an extremely serious time as far as this country is concerned. If people are asked to give up certain things or to take certain actions in a time like this because of the seriousness of the situation, I believe it is right that each and every individual should have the fullest opportunity to think out these decisions for themselves and to come to the correct answer. If people are being asked to set a standard to make sacrifices or to set an example, I think it is necessary for each honourable senator to be given the opportunity to think out this matter fully because of the importance of what can ensue from any demonstration or example. Examples today can be of great importance if they are followed in the right way. Each and every one of us here should have uppermost in our minds the thought that what is best for the country should be best for each of us. There is a bit of a gallop in the direction of inflation at the moment and this is a time when we have to think deeply and seriously. We should think about saying no to things that we might accept normally. 

 Senator Wright gave notice of his motion and I believe that he should have the right to take sufficient time to give it proper consideration. Ultimately there should be a full debate in this chamber. In the past when we have moved for the disallowance of regulations we have had sufficient time to go fully into those questions. When the case was presented to the Senate it was fully presented, and generally it was successfully presented. The day or so involved in delaying the debate on this matter until next Tuesday will not turn the country upside down. If the debate is held on Tuesday and the right decision is made, the delay of a couple of days will not be of very great moment to this country. 
I agree with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's sentiments on this question. I do not think it is right to televise the proceedings of the Parliament. I cannot see that it will be an attractive proposition for the people who watch television. I imagine that a telecast of our proceedings would not be the most exciting serial to look at on a television screen. I think that the written word or the spoken word is the best way of conveying to the people what is taking place in the Parliament. 
I would not classify myself as of high rating. We know what the position is with regard to our broadcasting days. But this will be a new field in the reporting of Parliament and it might be a matter of being killed in the rush to see who will be able to speak and to be featured across the nation on television screens. The concentration of parliamentarians should be on achieving the best possible debate on the issues they feel strongly about. Other matters, such as appearing as glamour boys or, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  said, having a screen appeal, should be of minor importance. The real business should be the parliamentary business and in those circumstances I feel that to televise this session of Parliament next week would be wrong. I am sorry to see the television of Parliament being brought into effect. Therefore, I do not support the proposal. 
-To me, clause 1 5 of the Bill is a very dangerous one. It refers to the control of rates of interest. I know that the control of rates of interest may not sound so very dangerous in itself, but where that control might have a political outlook about it it could be very dangerous indeed. The purpose of the Bill is to control organisations outside the banking area. I have in mind the building societies, which have played a very splendid part in the building of homes for people throughout the nation. I feel that they have been very generous in the way that they have made advances. I think that most of these institutions are controlled, to a reasonable degree, by the State governments. Up to the present I do not think that the control by the State governments of those organisations can be queried adversely to any great extent. 
It is all very well to say that we want more institutions under the control of what we know as the banking system. Why do we want to limit the control to the banking system? I was interested to hear  Senator Hall  speak. He plumped for the banks. During the course of his speech he pointed out the conservatism of the banks in the matter of extending finance. There is no doubt that before these other institutions came into existence the banks in Australia were the most difficult organisations with which to arrange finance. They were as tough as nails when it came to getting loans from them. The situation then might have been all right for people like  Senator Steele  Hall and others who live in the capital cities, but people living in distant regions away from the capital cities are just names or numbers and their requests have to be submitted by the local bank managers and posted to headquarters in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, or whatever the case may be. These people are not as close to the bank authorities as those who live in Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane where the banks have their headquarters. As a consequence I do not think that people in distant areas get the deep consideration that is received by people closer to the banks' headquarters. People in the cities have more pull in getting finance. 
What is the situation with the building finance organisations? Building societies are scattered over the length and breadth of the country. People living in Adelaide, for example, have a pull with their bank because they live close to its headquarters and can be interviewed personally. In the same way such people are known to those who control the building finance organisations. They have personal contacts, their character and standing are known, and it is easier for them to deal with the organisations than is the case for people living elsewhere. I would like to see competition in the system of financial institutions because the banks have sole control. No organisations step further into areas of other people's business than do the banks and they are not always honest in the way that they do that. They will come at all sorts of stunts in order to get into other people's business. Why do we want to make the banks the sole financial organisations? 
It is rather interesting that a Labor Government now is trying to strengthen the banks when a while ago Labor was trying to nationalise them. 
Does the Labor Party want to strengthen them before it nationalises them? 
-I think that the system operating now is all to the good of the people. If this Bill is aimed at reducing the rate of interest charged by building societies and other organisations similar to banks in the long run it could well sound the death knell of many organisations outside the present banking system. I think that that would be bad for Australia generally. People in some regions of this Commonwealth have closer contact with these organisations and therefore have a better opportunity in their dealings with them than those who have to deal in an impersonal way with organisations with headquarters in the capital cities. This could be a very serious matter. Control having been handed over by means of this Bill I believe a definite and purposeful step could be taken in order eventually to eradicate many of these other financial organisations. Why is the Government so keen on building up the banking system and excluding other people?  Senator Steele  Hall says that he believes in the banking system being strengthened but do honourable senators not think that this might be the right time to set up a system whereby the banks are limited to banking only and are not permitted to engage in all sorts of ramifications and other types of business? Banks in many respect have a monopoly but they also like to dabble in everybody else's business. 
I think that the main element of danger in this Bill is contained in clause 15. That clause provides very great power and might well sound the death knell of the freedom of enterprise that has developed in these other financial institutions. That would bring us back to the pure banking system and would be a bad thing for this country. It is all very well for the Government to say that although this clause is included nothing will happen. I have seen that sort of thing before and when things have happened subsequently people have regretted that they were not more vigilant and more wide awake when the opportunity was available for them to act. Because I am very worried in relation to clause 1 5 1 will oppose the Bill. 
-As one who has served on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for almost 25 years and for almost 20 years as  chairman,  and as one who has a great regard for the Committee, I feel that where there is a division of opinion or an element of doubt as to whether the Committee has power to act in these matters we should make sure that the legislation which goes through is watertight, because if we presume that the Committee has powers and ultimately a situation arises and we find that it does not have those powers this Senate will be at fault for letting the legislation go through on a risky basis. Therefore, I think it is much better to have the legislation made watertight so that we are sure we are on sound ground and are not relying on something which may be effective but which may not be. The Committee is bound by 4 aspects of the charter under which it works. Unfortunately one very important point was omitted from it at the time it was formulated. In those circumstances, from the point of view of the Committee and the Senate, we should make sure that the legislation which is passed in safe and sound. 
Is it the wish of the Committee to deal with clauses 52 to 75 inclusive? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Clauses 52 to 75. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In speaking to the Trade Practices Bill I remark on the attitude of  Senator Hall  to what has been said in this chamber by honourable senators on the Opposition side. In the very short time that the honourable senator has been in this chamber I have heard so often from this mastermind of Australian politics, from this 'Labor' leader from South Australia, what small fry and nincompoops we on this side apparently are. Now he is accusing us on this side of representing certain interests from which we have received instructions. I say this to  Senator Hall:  I receive no instructions from anyone and I always vote in this chamber according to what I think. I defy  Senator Hall,  this newcomer in the Senate, to show otherwise. When he makes these claims or charges, he ought to have some foundation for them. Last night we saw a similar demonstration. Now he stands here and says that he is antiLabor; but there would not be a stronger Labor man in the Senate than  Senator Hall. 

 Senator Hall also stated that the Bill now before us is practically the same as that which  Sir Garfield  Barwick wanted to bring in. I say, with due deference to the people who have sponsored any trade practices legislation, that this Bill is based on a different principle from those of previous days. Until now the Trade Practices Act has operated in this country on the English basis. I think that the Attorney-General,  Senator 
Murphy, would be willing to say that this Bill proposes to change the trade practices legislation more towards the American system. I think that is the particular difference. For  Senator Hall  to stand up and say that this Bill is exactly the same as that brought in by  Sir Garfield  Barwick shows how strong is his Labor bias. 

 Senator Hall also referred to the speech made by  Senator Wright.  In the 25 years that I have been here I have heard  Senator Wright  make some very fine contributions to debates in this chamber. I believe that when reports of the Senate debates are read in the years ahead the Senate will receive a lot of credit, particularly for the contributions by  Senator Wright.  What is more,  Senator Wright  has adopted an independent attitude in regard to legislation, not only while we have been sitting on this side of the Parliament, in Opposition, but also while we were in office. I think  Senator Murphy  would agree that  Senator Wright  made a good contribution to this debate and that in it he brought forth certain aspects for our consideration. If one of those aspects does not strike home to  Senator Hall  he is pretty dumb. 
One of the important aspects that  Senator Wright  brought out was the omission of control over industrial unions. I think it can be said that this is an omission from the Bill, whether it was done by design, as a result of the natural thinking of the Attorney-General about trade practices, or whether it was done from a political point of view. I cannot say the reason, but I think that control over industrial unions should be included in this Bill. To suggest that  Senator Wright's  speech was of no consequence shows how little the Labor senator from South Austrafia,  Senator Hall,  really considers debates in this chamber. I have listened to several speeches from  Senator Hall  and I have yet to hear him use a good, solid, compact series of arguments in this chamber. I am still waiting. I thought I should rise and state my sentiments and let the Senate know that what has been the situation in the 25 years up to now is still the situation, namely, that I am not being dictated to by anyone outside this Parliament. 
I have listened to this debate with very great interest having served for over 30 years on  Tocal  government- 15 years as mayor of my city, 6 years as State  president  of local government, 1 year as Australian  president  of local government, and as the person who was responsible for the initiation of town planning legislation in Australia because of the Mackay Town Planning Act. Therefore I have a very deep interest in local government. It has been rather interesting to hear some of the aspects put forward.  Senator Durack  pointed out what control the Federal government or Minister will have over local government. He instanced that the expenditure of their own collections on roads will have to be under the jurisdiction of a Minister of this Government. In addition, the expenditure of State moneys in council areas will have to be with the permission and under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Government which will also watch over the expenditure of the money it gives to the various local authorities throughout Australia. 
Can honourable senators imagine what the position will be? As they know, in my State of Queensland- my Queensland colleagues on this side of the chamber and on the other side will agree with me- there is a very large area of country. As a consequence Queensland has a number of problems which other areas do not have. Honourable senators know that in the northern regions in particular we get very heavy mon.soonal rains. Good roads can be wiped out almost overnight because of the terrific fall of water, the rate at which it falls and the flooding of the area. Of course very often this brings an immediate problem. But basically there is always the great problem of the large areas of land which we have to cover with good roads. Tonight I heard my friend  Senator Milliner  discussing the bad roads under the Country Party-Liberal Party Government in Queensland. My mind goes back further. I say this: The roads in Queensland today are a paradise compared to what they were under the Labor Government. 
If Vince Gair were here I would still say the same. I am speaking factually. 
Let me recall the situation to those people who are not Queenslanders. They may remember it by this illustration. Honourable senators will remember the Redex motor trials. The area between Rockhampton and Mackay was called the horror stretch. 

 - Senator, irrespective of your fine analytical mind and judgment, that was beyond the city boundaries of Mackay. That area did not come under my jurisdiction in any shape or form. It was the Mains Roads Department under a Labor government which was supposed to be looking after that main north coast road which led from the north to the top of the State. In fact, in some sections of the State that north coast road did not really exist. It was just a bush track. That road was so bad that during the Redex trials it was known throughout Australia as the horror stretch. The Queensland roads were bad, and the period of time from which the roads in Queensland stepped forward and became of a much better standard was when  Mr 
Ernest Evans in the Country-Liberal Party Government took over as Minister for Main Roads. It was only then that the country areas really began to get proper attention. 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly.) 
-Last night I was speaking about my State of Queensland as an example. I mentioned that under the present Country-Liberal Party Government there had been an excellent development and improvement in the roads system of that State. I can remember at one stage a Minister who had very strong influence in the Labor Government indicated to a deputation which waited on him that he was interested only in the roads that surrounded the Brisbane, Ipswich and Toowoomba areas. He quite blatantly said that he could not care less about country regions. We saw a complete change take place with the advent of the late  Mr Ernest  Evans as the Minister for Main Roads. It is unfortunate that the man who made the statement to which I have referred, showing of his short-sighted interest in this matter, came from the southern area of the State.  Mr Evans  lived in my own area, which is in the central-northern region. That is a striking illustration of the fact that people who are furtherest removed from you are the people who know least about you and from whom you will receive the least consideration. When I think of the size of my State and of this Commonwealth, I believe that Canberra is too far removed for people here to be able to appreciate the necessary details in order to make judgments regarding roads and so on. 
Local government is the closest form of government to the people. The people in local government live in the areas concerned and they have a good knowledge of the requirements of the areas. The State government is the next closest form of government to the people, and we in the Federal sphere are the most removed form of government from the people because of our situation in this city of Canberra. In my own experience I have not found any great conflict or any great difficulty in municipal administrations and Departments of Main Roads working with each other. Looking at the matter from the point of view of the benefit derived by the people in the areas concerned, I cannot see what we gain by having everything referred to Canberra.  Senator Hall  mentioned the difficulties of South Australia. I believe that if every request is to be channelled to Canberra, there could very well be a bottleneck that might hold things up considerably. Also, because the Canberra authorities are so far removed from some areas in Australia they may not have regard to the special circumstances in those areas. 
As I have mentioned, I live in a northern region where we get monsoonal rains and rains which are much heavier than those experienced in other areas, and there may be a requirement for roads of stronger structure. The engineering people or the people in the responsible department in Canberra might ask: 'Why the necessity for extra expenditure on building more expensive roads?' I will give an illustration. Earlier this year we had a lengthy period of rain. With the exception of possibly one or two days, we had rain every day over a period of 7 weeks. During that period the whole area became waterlogged. I saw springs burst through from underneath newly made bitumen roads. Ultimately, the roads had to be dug out and rock filled. Even underground drainage had to be provided in some cases. Such circumstances would not be found in the Canberra region where the annual rainfall probably would not be as much as the rainfall recorded in my region in the 7-week period to which I have referred. As I said, damage was caused to many miles of roads in my area as a result of water bursting through from underneath the bitumen. A great amount of expenditure was incurred in repairing the roads. 
Looking at the matter from the point of view of wanting to give the best service to the people, I cannot see that referring everything to Canberra is the most expeditious and beneficial way of providing that service. I think it will cause a bottleneck. I know that these things depend a lot upon the people who administer them. It seems to me that many requests from a very large countryI am thinking of the Commonwealth of Australia as a whole- will be channelled to Canberra for consideration. I know that  Senator Devitt  has had experience in local government. Those of us who have had experience in local government believe that being a local government representative is good training and I think we have a sense of being close to the people. If a local authority wants to construct a culvert or a bridge in connection with road work, I cannot see why a request for approval of such work should be channelled through to Canberra. It appears to me that in this legislation we are creating difficulty in the quick execution by the requirements we are placing on local government in regard to the roads of this nation. The situation that will arise if municipal councils have to ask people in Canberra how they can spend their money really beggars description. 
Yes, it is. Once Canberra gets its hands on local government, you never know where it will finish. Personally, I would not like to be in the position of having to refer everything to Canberra. Surely the people who serve in local government are just as sensible as you and 1. 1 think we should have confidence that, if money is parcelled out to local authorities, we can leave it to them to do a decent and reasonable job for this nation- a better job than would result if everything were run from Canberra. 
-I move: 
I ) After clause 2, insert the following new clause: 2a. Permanent arrangements for the stevedoring industry shall be submitted to the Parliament before 1 April 1 975. ' 
2 ) In clause 4, sub-clause ( 1 ) omit ' 1 July 1 976 ' substitute'! April 1975'. 
The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill 1974 is a Bill which renews for the fourth time since 1967 the provisions which now operate on the waterfront throughout Australia with regard to the employment of the workforce. As the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  stated in his second reading speech, the present proposals arise from the decisions of the national conference under  Mr Justice  Woodward's chairmanship which took place in 1967 and the matters concerned relate to permanent employment for the waterside work force on a weekly hiring basis, a pension scheme, the redundancy, disciplinary procedures and industrial dispute settlements, but they are of a temporary character and were expressly of a temporary character when they were first introduced in 1 967. 
The first Bill lasted for 3 years and at the end of 1970 there were still unresolved problems which were referred to and debated in the Parliament at the time. So a further Bill for a 2-year period was introduced to run until 1972. At that time some problems had become apparent in the sense that a great amount of idle time is involved, which is reflected in increased costs and increased prices which required settlement. Therefore the provisions were renewed for a further year until 1973. In 1973 the present Government introduced a Bill to extend the provisions for 12 months. That 12-month period has now expired and the Government asks for the provisions to be renewed for 2 years. 
The purpose of the Opposition's amendment is to ensure that the temporary provisions will continue only until April next year, and that before April next year the Government should put down and present to the Parliament the permanent arrangements which last year it said it was absolutely certain it would be able to produce. I refer to what the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in May 1973 when he introduced the previous Bill extending the temporary provisions for one year. He said: 
I believe that it will be possible during the next 12 months for this Government to determine permanent legislation arrangements for the industry. 
He went on in the light of what has happened subsequently with a sweeping brush which may or may not have been justified. He said: 
The former government, of course, seemed to dilly dally with this matter as long as it could, never making a decision if it could possibly avoid doing so. It seemed bent on a policy of starving the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority into bankruptcy. 
He later stated: 
. positive steps have already been taken to resolve the outstanding issues in this industry. These are steps that should and could have been taken previously by the former Government if it had only had the will to do something about the problems in the industry. 
The Minister then went on to indicate how he had requested the Stevedoring Industry Council to supply him with views and how he had appointed  Mr Norman  Foster who had previously been a member of the House of Representatives and whom he called 'one of the most knowledgeable men on the stevedoring industry in Australia' to inquire into and to report on certain aspects of stevedoring operations. I sought and elicited from other sources- I think it was this debate in the other place- the information that  Mr Foster  presented his report to the Minister, I think at the beginning of this year. Finally, the Minister in May of last year stated: 
With the support and valued help of  Mr Foster  I am certain that it will be possible to bring in permanent legislation at an earlier date than that to which I have just alluded. Indeed, an earlier date for permanent legislation is eminently desirable. We need to have this industry put on a proper and permanent basis. 
We believe that a lot of work has been done. The Minister must have his views. 
This is beside the point in terms of the need which we have to bring into the waterfront area a situation which gives security to persons who are working on the waterfront. It gives to those people a prospect of continuing employment over the years. It assures to those who depend upon a continuity of employment and service on the waterfront- that is, the shippers and the public who depend upon the ability to get goods off and on- a feeling that the system is working. We have proposed this amendment because we consider it appropriate that these provisions should operate until April of next year. We hope that by then the Government will have brought down permanent arrangements which can be considered by the Parliament. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the purchase of a doubtful piece of art for the colossal sum of $650,000. Has the Leader of the Government noticed in the Press a report that the broker handling the sale in the United States said that if Australia had bargained more toughly on this purchase it could have been bought for a sum considerably less than the $650,000. Does the Leader not consider that the action of  Mr Mollison  and his committee in not fighting for a better bargain for Australia has shown a carelessness and a recklessness with the money of the people of this country? Does not the Leader also consider that this weak handling of purchases on behalf of the people of Australia and this Government has shown that we can be looked upon as suckers in future purchases in the art world? 
I recall very clearly the attempt to set up these Estimates Committees. On that occasion, there was a difference of opinion between the then Opposition, which is now the Government, and the then Government. As I remember the position clearly, the Government of the day, supported by the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, felt that it would like to introduce a certain number of Estimates Committees and, over a period of time, to extend the number of Committees to encompass the whole range of investigation of the Estimates. As I recall the position, the then Opposition wanted the total number of committees set up to cover the complete range of the Estimates immediately. I might say that I supported the motion moved by the then Opposition. The result was that the motion was carried because of my vote. So the Estimates Committees were set up. 
It rather amazes me to know that the present Government, which was then the Opposition, says that it does not want these Estimates Committees. I look upon these Committees as giving the individual senator, if he so desires, the opportunity to pursue a proper investigation of the Estimates to whatever extent he or she wants. I well recall the debates on the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole. Because there were so few Ministers covering so many departments it was impossible for the Ministers of the day really to get a clear indication from the officers sitting across the passage from them as to what thenanswers should be. It was impossible to obtain the necessary answers in the way that honourable senators really required them. The establishment of these Estimates Committees gave honourable senators a first class opportunity, if they were desirous of it, of thoroughly investigating the various items of expenditure. It enabled them to have not only the Minister or the Minister representing a Minister in the Senate to answer questions but also the officers of the department were present to answer such questions. So honourable senators received a very comprehensive answer to whatever they wanted to know. I think that this gave honourable senators a terrific importance and power in the carrying out of their duties. It rather amazes me to know that the Government does not want that right which it established. 
When the Senate Estimates committee system was established on 2 occasions that I can recall members of the other House rose and said that the Senate was the major House of Parliament, that it had this power, that is could do this and that because of the establishment of the Committee system. They were deriding their own chamber as not being of nearly as much importance because the Senate had then taken unto itself the establishment of these Committees. There is no question in anybody 's mind that with the establishment of these Committees the Senate became a much more important chamber. It amazes me why anybody should want to throw away this opportunity to investigate so thoroughly the spending of money in this country. I would have thought that the power that senators had achieved would be something they would never want to have taken away. It surprises me further to hear the members of the Government, who were then the Opposition and who fought so strongly for the establishment of these Committees, say that they now want to dispense with them. The fact that some member of a committee went beyond what the members of the committee felt - 
Yes. It does not indicate that there is anything wrong with the Committee system. It actually indicates that the  chairman  or somebody in control might have taken a stronger stand on certain issues. I feel that it would be a backward step for the Senate to throw away the advancement it made on that occasion in the setting up of the Estimates Committees. Some honourable senators might feel that they do not want to attend these meetings. But there are other honourable senators who perhaps have a stronger investigating type of mind. I think that it is a backward step for senators to give back a power and a right that they have achieved. It should be the right and privilege of every honourable senator to be able to ask why a certain amount of money is being spent, for what purpose it is being spent and to receive a proper answer. But for any honourable senator to suggest that the system used for the examination of the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole, when Ministers had to ask somebody on the side for a very quick answer, was comprehensive and satisfactory really leaves me gasping. As far as I am concerned, the Committee system that we set up gave an opportunity to those honourable senators desirous of investigating in a proper manner. No senator could possibly compare the type of answers that were given by departmental officers through Ministers in such a quick manner as had to be the case in the Committee of the Whole system with the direct information given by the departmental officers under the Estimates Committee system. 
As far as I am concerned, it would indicate that the Government of the day was taking a backward step for the Senate if it were to revert to the old system of Estimates examination. I speak in this way because, as I said, it was my vote that really enabled these Committees to be brought about. I supported the Labor Party Opposition at the time to bring this about. It amazes me to know that the Labor Opposition thennow the Labor Government- wants to take this backward step. My view now is the same as it was then when I supported the decision for the establishment of these Committees. 
Honourable senators opposite were in favour of the committee system. 
At that time I voted accordingly. My views then are my views now. I believe that the establishment of these Committees was the best thing that ever happened in the Senate. I certainly think it is a backward step to talk about abolishing them now. 
I present the following petition from 63 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-At yesterday's sitting the Senate suspended standing order 76 to enable me to present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas it was reported in 'Newsweek', August 26th page 12, 1974 that the Australian Government agreed to send $225,000 for 'humanitarian purposes' to black guerrilla movements fighting Rhodesians, South Africans and Portuguese in southern Africa; 
And whereas these guerrilla movements being members of Zapu, Zanu, Frelimo and Frolizi and other kindred organisations have been guilty of 96 documented acts of murder, abduction, mutilation, arson, cattle maiming and rape chiefly against other peaceful Africans between 22nd December, 1972 and 10th May, 1974, in Rhodesia alone; 
And abducted 295 people chiefly school children from St Alberts Mission in Rhodesia as reported in the newsmedia; 
And whereas these above mentioned and kindred organisations have been guilty of many other barbarous acts of brutality as reported in 'The Silent War' by Chris Vermaak and Reg Shaay, and the 'Real Case for Rhodesia' by Charlton Chesterton, both books widely read in Australia. 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to prevent material and other assistance being sent to the above mentioned organisations in southern Africa which are guilty of various acts of terrorism as such assistance would give the impression of agreement of the Australian People and the Government to the various acts of brutality which have been perpetrated by the organisations concerned. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Senator Walsh cast a reflection upon farmers in Queensland when he suggested that poverty stricken farmers in this country are Queensland farmers. As has been mentioned by a Government senator, a great number of Queensland farmers are employed in growing sugar cane. I say without fear of contradiction that the sugar cane farmers of Queensland are engaged in possibly the most efficient sugar industry in the world. 
I am speaking of the reflection cast by  Senator Walsh  in referring to poverty stricken farmers in Queensland. It is very nice to have a crack at Queensland but I want to defend Queensland's farmers. Over a period of years they have developed the most efficient sugar industry in the world. Many people from sugar industries in other countries visit Queensland to find out just what is being achieved by the sugar industry there. 
Forgan Smith did not set up the sugar industry. Forgan Smith was a Premier of Queensland. 
He is not the man who consolidated the sugar industry. The sugar industry has been going for many years. Over a period of years the accumulation of knowledge, science and inventions has played a very great part in developing a very efficient industry. The result is that farmers, through scientific investigation,  research, experimental stations and the finding of new types of cane, have produced an industry which gives a very great tonnage per acre. But, importantly, it is growing a type of cane which gives an excellent yield of sugar per ton of cane. As a result, some of its extraction methods are of world importance because of their great efficiency. It is efficiency not only in the field but also in milling that has made the Queensland sugar industry the most efficient in the world. The extraction of sugar per ton of cane and the crop grown per acre have produced an industry of which we as Australians should be very proud. 
Furthermore, the industry has brought about a greater degree of efficiency in the handling of its sugar. It has progressed from bagged sugar to bulk sugar. What would have taken 3 weeks to load into a ship at one time now takes one day. So the industry from the commencement of the production of crops has become, through experimental stations and developments in planting, growing, cutting and milling, an industry of which not only Queenslanders but Australians should be proud because within the State of 
Queensland we have developed the finest and most efficient sugar industry in the world. 

 Senator WALSH (Western Australia)-Mr  President,  I seek leave to make an explanation. 

 Senator WOOD (Queensland)-Mr  President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I did not say anything about poverty in the way that  Senator Walsh  just said. 
-I did not imply that at all. 
I was one of the Liberal senators- possibly the only Liberal senator present tonight- who was here when  Senator Harris  was in this chamber. I think it is right that I should say something on behalf of Liberal senators. I agree entirely with the sentiments expressed by you,  Mr President. Senator Harris  was a very dignified person in this chamber. He was not the hurly burly type of senator but always carried himself with a sense of dignity and fairness in debates. I think it can be truly said that he was not only gentlemanly but also of a gentle character. 
He was a man who was interested in the aesthetic things of life which showed he had a deeper insight than what would have been the case if the had taken an interest only in superficial things that some people might enjoy more. I know that he loved nature and he had depth although he had a quiet personality. He was a senator who carried out his duties with dignity and when he retired from this chamber he left it with a very good reputation amongst his fellow senators. I therefore join with you  Mr President,  on behalf of the Liberal members of this Senate in expressing very sincere condolences to the family of ex-Senator Harris. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth:- Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation. 
All Family Matters must come out of the Legal System. 
There must be No Lawyers- No Courts- And Especially- No Judges. 
D.L.R.A.'S. Proposals must be considered for the New Divorce Laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where Marriages are made. 
2 ) Guidelines to be established by Mediators ( Non Lawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint Custody and Mutual Financial Support of children where possible. 
Child Endowment to Provide Financial Support of Children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary Civil Matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of Agreement should incur Legal Process and the Family Law Bill used as a last resort, with family courts for enforcement only. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 19S9. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-In terms of the purchase, the ministerial approval was given. I quite agree that it was done under the broad umbrella of legislation. But this is part of the problem with which we are confronted. Is it desirable when one establishes a commission, a body which is designed to be autonomous, to make its decisions subject to what the Minister may decide? The value of establishing a statutory or autonomous corporation is lost when the Minister has that power. If the Minister in this area of film making chooses to use his power politically- I am sorry that  Senator Steele  Hall feels that in some way Opposition senators are political and Ministers are not- then the misuse of that power is something which ought to arouse objection. And it will. I think that the appropriate point of time to take the objection is when Bills which contain this power are going through the Parliament. That is why we object at this stage to giving that particular power to the Minister. 
I think the point that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has brought forward is another reason why Capital Hill should be the choice for the new and permanent Parliament House. If it is put on Camp Hill this building will go. I think it should be made clear in the minds of honourable senators before they vote that this amendment would substitute Camp Hill for Capital Hill. I strongly urge honourable senators to continue the support they have always given to the best site which is Capital Hill. 
-I am entering into the debate not to discuss the pros and cons of this clause but because of some statements made by  Senator Hall  in regard to the regulation making aspect of which he spoke in regard to his amendment. The impression could be gained from what he said that the very fact that regulations are made and come under the supervision of the Parliament is a safeguard. I want to make it clear that although regulations come to each parliamentarian, and understanding of them depends upon what scrutiny each parliamentarian gives to those regulations. Some honourable senators probably think that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee surveys all regulations, but it does not. It surveys the regulations that relate to certain aspects, such as the rights and liberties of people, whether the subject of legislation or otherwise. But where it is a matter of policy, as is this legislation, in my opinion such matters would not come within the scope of the Committee's survey. It would therefore depend upon the individual parliamentarian to make his decision about whether he should move for the disallowance or otherwise of regulations. 
For the parliamentarian to make a thorough survey of regulations a great deal of work would be required. A section of the regulations can slip through without parliamentarians realising the true impact of it. In order to make a proper survey we need to know the Act of Parliament, how it works and so on, and even if we are vigilant and know the Act there is still the question whether the matter which an honourable senator brings forward will find acceptance in the minds of other parliamentarians. They may take a different view of it. To show the need to have these regulations studied in conjunction with the Acts of Parliament, I point out that the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee has seconded to it a legal person who scrutinises regulations, makes a survey of them and reports back to the Committee. I understand that to make a survey takes quite a lot of work. I want to impress upon honourable senators that they should not be carried away by the fact that regulation making requirements are in a piece of legislation because where a survey and scrutiny of the regulations are required to be made by the individual parliamentarian it is a big job and regulations can easily slip through without his knowing its true consequences. Therefore we should treat this not as a simple matter but as one requiring very deep thought. 
-Of course, in those days the Senate Opposition was constituted differently from what it is today and I do not think that he was thinking in terms of other than an earnest desire to work together to resolve a difficult problem. In the years immediately following the Moore v. Doyle case that was precisely what happened. There was the establishing under the aegis of the Commonwealth Minister for Labor and the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral, together with the State Ministers for Labour, the State law departments, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the national employers body, of a working party which met over a period of approximately 2 years with a view to clarifying what were the issues and testing what were the possible areas in which reforms could take place. As I understand it, everybody worked in that atmosphere with a degree of goodwill which made everyone hope that some resolution might flow out of the discussions. But as I understand the position, since the present Government came into power there have been no further meetings of those particular groups to work together to achieve a resolution. 
It may be that that is not in any sense a matter of culpability on the part of the Government because my recollection is that the parties had reached the stage where there was little more that they could do in this area. The most that had been achieved was an identification of what were the areas of doubt and what were the areas that needed to be resolved, and it was hoped that some action could be taken. I do not recall what happened in 1973, but it was not until early 1974 that  Mr Justice  Sweeney- a one-man inquiry, assisted by counsel- was appointed with a view to resolving some of these problems. The fact is that everyone recognised that the Moore v. Doyle case had exposed these problems which had to be resolved. I think it is important to recognise that the difficulties which have to be resolved cannot be resolved by Commonwealth parliamentary action alone. They are problems which cannot be resolved by State parliamentary action alone. Notwithstanding the goodwill of the employers' organisations, there is very little that employers can do to resolve what is at heart and essentially a problem which affects the trade union movement and its organisation on a State and nationwide basis. These are the areas which I think were pinpointed as a result of the operation of the working parties to which I have referred. 
I do not believe- and maybe I am pessimistic in my approach- that there will be co-operation between the various groupings to resolve the constitutional problems which the Moore v. Doyle case has thrown up. I believe that the ultimate solution must be an amendment of the Constitution, and I hope that the parties involved could use the difficulties found in the Moore v. Doyle case to reach the stage where a constitutional amendment, couched not in extravagant terms but in language which has the ability to command support from both wings of the political movements in Australia, and from employer organisations and unions, might be devised. 
It is an interesting sidelight possibly on the attitudes which parties take that the desire to use the processes of the Constitutional Convention for the promotion of a further referendum on this subject of widening the industrial power of the Commonwealth was expressed as part of the Opposition Parties' platform at the last election. I suppose that proposal must be regarded as having been rejected. I understand that the Australian Labor Party favours some reform of the Constitution in this area. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party favour some reform in this area. The Constitutional Convention is currently constituted and is about to come into its second session, with or without Commonwealth representation. It is a forum at which agreement which is expressed independently could be brought together with the hope that some consensus could be reached. Of course, the real problem is getting together on the form of words which should constitute the head of power upon which the Australian people could be asked to vote. I believe that if goodwill is there, the differences are not so great that they could not be overcome. 
One would suppose that the area which ought to be canvassed is the area under which there is a dispute settling procedure, preferably by conciliation and arbitration- not necessarily as part of the language of a head of power but as an exclusion from that head of power of a power to resolve disputes in the State or Federal public services. But this is possibly the solution of the future. What this Bill seeks to give effect to is the report of  Mr Justice  Sweeney. I think that one must recognise the effort and the real attempt to make a resolution of this question which is contained in the document embodying  Mr Justice  Sweeney's report. It is a clear document and one has no difficulty in seeing where he regards the problems as lying and the ways in which he would overcome those problems. This Bill, of course, very substantially gives effect to what  Mr Justice  Sweeney recommended. In the Bill there are some provisions which were not part of his recommendation, but I think it is fair to say that the Bill is a substantial implementation of his suggestions. 
But I draw attention to 3 matters which  Mr Justice  Sweeney regarded as crucial to the implementation of his resolution of these problems. The first was that whether the Commonwealth Parliament can initiate these proceedings by this sort of legislation depends upon a favourable reading of the Constitution. It depends upon reading into placitum 35 of the Constitution and interpretation of the incidental power of the Constitution on placitum 39 of section 5 1 which will enable the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws which really relate to State organisations. It is a bold step and one in which  Mr Justice  Sweeney may well be right in saying that he believes the Commonwealth has that power, but it is clearly an area in which doubt does exist and will exist until at some time in the future the High Court is called upon to make some adjudication. In paragraph 15 on page 12 of  Mr Justice  Sweeney's report he states: 
The question is whether the Act validly allows the registration in one form or another of the Commonwealth organisation or part of it to enable it to participate in the workings of State industrial authorities for the protection of the industrial interests of its members. For the reason outlined earlier - 
I will not refer in elaboration to those reasons which he stressed- 
I am of the view that such a power can validly be given under the Act in pursuance of the power to legislate under placitum xxxv which authorises Parliament to make laws with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State and placitum  xxxix  which authorises Parliament to make laws with respect to matters incidental to the execution of any power vested by the Constitution in the Parliament. In the Jumbunna Case the view seems to have been adopted that it would have been within power to give to trade unions and other associations constituted under the State laws a locus standi before the federal tribunal. 
The kernel of what  Mr Justice  Sweeney recommends is based upon the validity of a law of the character which is contained in this Bill under the Commonwealth Constitution. As I have said, that is an arguable matter. Suffice it to say that the structure which he is suggesting depends upon that opinion and it is a fair enough basis to work upon. The second point is that the whole scheme of what  Mr Justice  Sweeney is contemplating depends upon complementary State legislation. At pages 28-32 of  Mr Justice  Sweeney's report he sets out the various areas in which there must be complementary State legislation. He summarises most of those provisions. In paragraph 17 at page 31 he states that there should be a system of registration whereby a registered body under the State law does not by virtue of that become a corporation. He views as the appropriate course State legislation which constitutes voluntary associations of industrial organisations and not incorporated bodies under the State laws. He states that each State system should in each case retain a power to register the bodies which are to participate in the system. He states: 
I contemplate that at least the discretion of the State tribunal in determining whether to register or not would be exercised having regard to the degree of autonomy of a federal branch for which registration was sought, the branch's power to control activities within the State system, the presence of officers and like matters. 
The State system should also retain ultimate sanction of deregistration of a federal branch. 
I understand that that is a provision which, if not in all States, will in some cases warrant State legislation. His Honour went on: 
Each State system at present provides for imposition of penalties in cases of illegal strikes or lockouts. In New South Wales this has been held to extend to strikes by members of registered unions even though they are employed under Federal awards. If this were removed and the power limited to cases concerning the working under State awards, there would in my view be no possible conflict with the Federal Act . . . 
Obviously that requires complementary State legislation.  Mr Justice  Sweeney continues: 
Since the branch will not be a legal entity it could not be sued in its own name. The remedy is to provide that the rules of an organisation shall contain a provision that if a branch is to obtain registration to enable the organisation to participate in State industrial systems then the Secretary of the branch shall be the person to sue or to be sued in matters arising under the State Act. 
That again will require State complementary legislation. His Honour expressed concern about the method of enforcement of penalties. He stated: 
This position can be met by the State machinery requiring as a condition of registration of a Federal branch that the organisation enter into a deed undertaking to pay to the Industrial Registrar any penalty imposed in respect of a strike or lockout under the State Act and remaining unpaid for a period of 14 days after the last day fixed for payment. 
I leave aside how some organisations can square the making of a deed of that character with the policy which I understand is still the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In any event, whatever may be the attitudes of individual unions, State legislation would be required in order to enable that particular machinery to be adopted. His Honour also said that there should be a provision that the Registrar if required to give notice to and if required to consult with registrars of States before approving or certifying alterations to the rules. That again would involve in the State area some complementary legislation. His Honour stated: 
Vesting all the power in respect of Federal organisations and their branches in one court would avoid the embarrassment of possible different judgments on the same issues in two separate tribunals. In the case of Federal branches which are given as I propose, non-corporate registration under a State Act, State provisions dealing with rules and their performance and disputed elections should not apply to those bodies. 
I again assert that that requires complementary State legislation.  Mr Justice  Sweeney went on:  -the power which now appears in the Act and in a number of State Acts giving power to the tribunal to make an order entitling persons to membership and requiring the organisation to admit them is another question . . . in the case of a Federal branch I think it preferable that the power be exercisable by one tribunal only and I think it quite sufficient if there is one power able to be exercised. 
That again would necessiate some complementary State legislation although it would certainly involve amendment to the jurisdiction of the Australian Industrial Court. At the bottom of page 3 1 His Honour sets out in 9 paragraphs the areas in which he suggests that the respective State Acts could be amended. He excludes, of course, the further amendment which he refers to at page 36 where he recommends that the respective State Acts should be amended by providing as follows: 
A power in the appropriate tribunal to  demark  the industrial interests under the State Act of unions registered under that Act including those with non corporate registration. 
A similar power to be given to the Registrar when dealing with applications for registration. 
Of course, he recommended that the Commonwealth Act should be amended in the same areas. I have taken some time, possibly tediously, to refer to those areas where the judge, upon whose report this legislation is based, indicates that complementary State legislation is absolutely essential if the scheme which he is devising is to work. It is also clear that union co-operation to take advantage of this new system must be forthcoming if the difficulties are to be overcome. I leave aside the fact that there are bound to be personality and factional differences which will prevent this scheme from operating for some time, even if it were to be accepted by both the Commonwealth and the States. The real area of doubt which I have is whether unions will be prepared to enter into a deed, a bond, to pay any penalties which were imposed upon and ordered to be paid by a non corporate State union. I feel that this is one of the areas in relation to which the normally vociferous  Mr Hawke  has been fairly quiet. It would be interesting to know whether he regards this particular provision as one which the trade union movement would honour and, indeed, whether any union in the trade union movement would be prepared to enter into. 
The Bill we now have before us provides for amendments to the Federal legislation. That is one of the steps which  Mr Justice  Sweeney recommends, but these steps will be of no consequence unless the complementary amendments required to be made to State legislation by State parliaments are made. Even if State legislation is passed, unless the unions agree to amend their rules, the scheme will be unfruitful. We have not been told whether the States are prepared to pass the complementary legislation. I invite the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labor and Immigration, to indicate whether he can say positively that the States will implement complementary State legislation as required by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. The information available to the Opposition is that at least 2 States, and probably 3 States, have positively indicated that they will not do so. But it may be that more information is passing between Ministers than is available to the Opposition. We think it is also encumbent upon the Postmaster-General, again in his representative capacity, to indicate what is the attitude of the unions. Are they prepared to fulfil their part of the arrangements which have been suggested by the Minister? 
I think this is an unfortunate development. The essential reason for my referring to  Mr Clyde  Cameron's conduct at the outset of my remarks is that we are asked to adopt a scheme of this character when we are not told whether the other essential parties to the working out of the arrangement are prepared to do their part. It is not the proper basis upon which the Parliament should be asked to pass legislation. It may be that there are provisions in this legislation which, although they be introduced with a view to implementing a Moore v. Doyle solution, could be used for other purposes if the Moore v. Doyle situation is not resolved. I wonder whether the provisions relating to curing invalidity could not be used, at least as a basis for legal argument, which is putting it at its lowest, to frustrate those other provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which give members certain rights to see that the rules of the organisation are observed. 
There are also the vexing problems which are raised by the proposed new section 142a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the possibilities which are open to a member of the Commission to determine by decision of the Commission which unions shall represent which members on a State basis in proceedings before the Commission. I have not much doubt that if any attempt were made in certain union areas to exercise that power the validity of the section of the Bill which gives to the Commission that power would be taken fairly quickly to the High Court. Maybe that is an effective safeguard. 
But the point which the Opposition makes is that the Minister has not played fair with the Parliament in withholding information as to the attitudes of the States to the introduction of complementary legislation and the attitudes of the unions. These matters are absolutely essential to the working out of the scheme. We are not told what will happen. For those reasons I move on behalf of the Opposition as an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
That the following words be added to the motion: but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Minister informs the Senate 
whether or not the trade unions would accept the conditions for non-incorporated registration of State branches as laid down by the honourable  Mr Justice  Sweeney and 
of the position of the States concerning proposed complementary legislation. ' 
We feel there is a real need for many of the trade unions to know what is contained in this provision and to know how the scheme is going to work. We also think it is desirable that we should know whether the States are prepared to cooperate to enable this scheme to work out. We will not be opposing the second reading of the Bill, because if this great scheme falls down it will fall down because of the Minister's own approach to things and his lack of willingness to ascertain the views of the other parties. If our amendment is carried we shall, at the Committee stage, seek to postpone the first clause of the Bill with a view to ensuring that some time is given to enable the Minister to seek the opinion of the States. The Opposition proposes the amendment which I have moved and will support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
-As has been pointed out, this issue has been thrashed out on a number of occasions. It has been rather interesting to hear the discussion.  Senator Button  dealt with the architectural features. I have been associated with town planning for many years. Because I brought in a town plan for the city of Mackay town planning legislation was introduced. 
That is right. The first town planning legislation in Australia came about because of Mackay. It brought about the introduction of town planning legislation in Australia. Throughout the years I have been very interested in town planning and architecture. Over the years I searched for the best people in town planning and in that way I met a very eminent town planner, the late  Dr Karl  Langer, who lived in Brisbane.  Senator McAuliffe  would remember his name. He escaped from Vienna at the time of the Nazi occupation and that is the only reason we got the services of such an eminent town planner in Australia. The late  Mr Charles  Chuter, who was head of the Local Government Department in Queensland, said that  Dr Karl  Langer's misfortune was our great fortune. Some years ago a parliamentary committee inquired into the siting of the new and permanent parliament house and brought in a report.  Dr Karl  Langer came down to Canberra during that inquiry.  Senator Button  said that he has been up on Capital Hill to look at the proposed site. Whilst  Dr Langer  was here he walked up Capital Hill, examined the site and came to the definite conclusion that that was the place on which to build the new and permanent parliament house. 
References have been made to dominance. It is not a matter of dominating from a democratic point of view. It is a matter of standing out as the House of Parliament.  Dr Langer  pointed out to me that the central feature of the city of Canberra is that it is a parliamentary city. When people come into Canberra they say: 'Where is Parliament House?' Therefore it should have an eminence so that people may readily be able to say: 'That is Parliament House'. On my first visit to Canberra I came with a party in a car. We raced from building to building. I was always keen on the political scene and I thought I would know Parliament House when I saw it but there seemed to be so many buildings of the squat type. Unexpectedly we arrived at Parliament House. 
This was not when I entered Parliament. I was on a visit. I was indicating that the present building has no eminence.  Dr Langer's  suggestion was that it should be on an eminence so that when people came to Canberra they would recognise it immediately by its architecture and position.  Senator Button  spoke about different types of architecture. We should remember that the architecture which stands the test of time is that with simplicity of design and the right proportions. Those are the 2 cardinal principles in good architecture and they will never go out of date. If we were to place a building of such a design on Capital Hill we could not go wrong. 
In discussing this question a very prominent member of the National Capital Development Commission said to me: 'Where would you put the cars that turn up at Parliament House?'  Mr Langer  said: 'You do not take the cars to the top. You leave them at the bottom and build a walkway tunnel in which people can catch a lift to Parliament House.' He was a world authority. It is as simple as that. These are small problems that can easily be overcome by the right type of thinking. In choosing the site for the new and permanent parliament house we should keep in mind that the whole atmosphere of this place rests with its being a parliamentary city. Therefore everything should merge towards Parliament House, not in the spirit of dominance but simply merging.  Senator Button  spoke about castles and churches on hills. Does he know that the type of architecture reflected in those structures developed from the wish to carry the sweep of the hill on into the design of the building? 
I will get over that. I do not have to go up on a pushbike. I will catch a lift in a tunnel. The more that we know about it the better decision we will arrive at. I have given it a lot of consideration over the years. I have talked with authorities such as  Dr Karl  Langer and it is quite clear in my mind that Capital Hill is the proper site. If more eminence is required than the hill supplies there is nothing wrong with building a tall structure. There would be nothing wrong in erecting a building tall enough to include accommodation for parliamentarians in its highest section so that at the end of the sitting at night we would just get in a lift and go up to our accommodation. The greater number of storeys the building has, the greater eminence it will achieve. 
It requires the very best of thinking to arrive at the best design for our new and permanent parliament house so that when it is built it will reflect simplicity and the right proportions, fitting in with the character of the city. It should be a building of which we can all be proud. Over the years the majority of honourable senators of this chamber has consistently voted for the Capital Hill site, even when honourable members in the other chamber have not thought that that should be the site. Now the people in the other chamber have come around to our way of thinking. I hope that the majority of honourable senators will still think that Capital Hill is the right place for the siting of Parliament House in this city of Canberra so that it might breathe the right atmosphere in an elevated position and with an eminence in the true spirit of the Australian people. 
-Senator Wheeldon, I find, adduces an interesting argument because I recall that it was very vigorously asserted- I do not recall whether it was asserted by him or one other of his colleagues- when the Labor Party was in Opposition that there was only one Opposition and that was the Australian Labor Party. 
Another point which is made in the editorial and which has been made on other occasions is that last year's representation at the Constitutional Convention included the Demoratic Labor Party. But what is failed to be noted is that the representation which was fixed in 1 973 was a representation which was agreed upon by the Government, by the Opposition and by the Democratic Labor Party. In fact, my recollectionI have a personal knowledge of this- goes back to the time when the previous Government was in office. During that period, by a letter which I know was dated 13 April 1972, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in fact nominated what the Labor Party then believed should be the size of the delegation to the Constititional Convention, what should be the Party composition and what should be the respective composition from the Houses. That letter- I am sure that that letter must be in the file somewhere- will show that the Labor Party decided and suggested to the Government of the day- the Government accepted the proposalthat there should be 10 members of the House of Representatives and 5 members of the Senate, and that the Senate representation should be 2 Government senators, 2 Opposition Senators, and one senator from the Democratic Labor Party. 
As far as the Senate was concerned there would be 3 government senators and there would be a representative of the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party. But that was an arrangement which I would emphasise was mutually agreed upon by all the parties then represented in the chamber. The appointments were made by resolutions of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 3 1 May 1973 and the fact that they were each agreed to, without debate, indicates the consensus which had been arrived at. It should not be forgotten that the Democratic Labor Party was a Party of 5 senators established in the Senate for approximately 15 years whose individual representatives had polled approximately 1 8 per cent of the vote in each of 2 States and whose national vote approximated 10 per cent. The Democratic Labor Party was and had long been recognised as an established Party. As I said, their participation as part of the Convention delegation was by arrangement and agreement between the various parties represented. 
Another point which was made in the editorial in this morning's Press to which I have referred was the credibility of the Opposition's commitment to constitutional reform which must, it said, be seriously questioned. That,  Mr President,  is a statement which reflects more on the ignorance of the writer than on the Opposition which is sought to be questioned. But ignorance fed by blind acceptance of whatever the Government asserts is commonplace among the critics of the present Opposition. It is a matter for some alarm that this is the standard of editorial writing in the Australian'. But if this is the standard for the Australian' so be it. We know the freedom of the Press involves taking the good along with the bad. But we must take some comfort from the fact that the 'Australian' does have other editorial writers. 
The Opposition, when it was in government, had committed this Parliament to participation in the Convention. This present Opposition, when in government and since it went into Opposition, has supported the work of the Convention. It committed the Commonwealth originally to the major share of the costs of the Convention. It has attended and participated in the work of the Convention sessions and the committees. It has sought on many occasions to popularise the working of this Convention. Its policy documents have emphasised the reliance it places upon the Constitutional Convention as the forum in which a consensus can be developed from which constitutional changes can be developed. These are matters of record and they are matters which indicate the Opposition's commitment to the purposes of the Constitutional Convention. Any objective observer would question, however, the degree of the Commonwealth's Government's commitment to this Convention. Notwithstanding that it has right from the outset agreed with the Opposition parties that it would participate in the Convention, the Government has shown by its conduct that it regards the Convention as a less than satisfactory medium for securing support for constitutional changes. 
Since this Government came into power we have had 6 referenda, not one of which has been carried and not one of which was submitted to the Constitutional Convention beforehand in an effort to obtain support from the representatives of the States as a means of achieving that sort of consensus which experience ought to have demonstrated was necessary for the carrying of referenda in this country. One further proposal was suggested by the Government at the Constitutional Convention last September. It was taken up initially by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with the States. But at a fairly early stage the Commonwealth decided to go it alone and the proposal for the referendum question on the reference of powers was not taken back to the States and instead it was brought prematurely to this Parliament, where the Senate rejected it. The Senate rejected it because it had not the support of the States and because it seemed proper that the matter ought to go back to the Constitutional Convention from which it had originally emanated. 
This failure to support the Constitutional Convention as a forum where the referendum proposals could have been considered does suggest that the Government did not see any value in the Constitutional Convention as a place where support might be obtained. This, of course, is a denial of the very purpose for which the Convention was established. The present Government appears to have regarded the defeat of the referenda as matters of pride and in petulance it has decided not to proceed further with the Constitutional Convention. This is not evidenced only by what has happened in the last week. There is a pattern which can be demonstrated and which has been sought to be testified to by statements which have been issued after various other matters have occurred but which have not been taken up by those who now want to criticise the Opposition. 
There was a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Constitutional Convention which was held in Melbourne in June of this year. The Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government were not represented. They had been invited to attend and they chose not to attend. It had been agreed at the previous session of the Convention and at the previous executive meeting that the second session of the Convention was to be held in Melbourne in September of this year. The Commonwealth indicated, though the Prime Minister did not appear, that that time was unsatisfactory and the Commonwealth would not be able to attend. Nevertheless the Commonwealth did not indicate what date would be satisfactory. I well recall that there were officers- not Ministers- of the Government who were present at that meeting of the Executive Committee who were very embarrassed because first, they did not have any instructions, secondly they could not give any information and, thirdly, many efforts to telephone the Prime Minister who was at a meeting in another State were unavailing because the Prime Minister was not available to come to the telephone. 
This was a fact which caused considerable annoyance amongst members of the Prime Minister's own party from other States. But at the time that that occurred, of course, an indication was given- I certainly made it by way of a Press statement afterwards and I understand the  Chairman  of the Executive Committee made a similar statement- which criticised the absence of the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government from that meeting. It appeared reasonable to assume that the Commonwealth was not interested in fixing a date on which the Convention could be held. The upshot of the meeting was that the  Chairman  was to endeavour to ascertain at some stage in the future when the Prime Minister would be available to attend a meeting of the Convention. Subsequently, it was discovered that the Prime Minister would be able to attend in the first week in November. Whether or not he thought that might daunt the Convention because the first week in November in Melbourne was Melbourne Cup week and it might be difficult to hold the Convention in that week is purely a matter for speculation. 
The organisers of the Convention decided to transfer the meeting to Adelaide. That was the arrangement which was made to suit the Commonwealth's convenience. Thereafter we had in September a resolution which was proposed by the Government which sought to make  Senator Hall  one of the Opposition representatives. It is a matter of record that the Senate declined to accept the Government's proposal. It is equally a matter of record that this Senate declined to accept the Opposition's proposal- which in all the circumstances ought to have been regarded as the fairest proposal- that there should be 3 
Government representatives and 3 representatives from the official Opposition and the Australian Country Party. But, as I said, the Senate declined to accept that proposal. 
If it becomes a matter of obstinacy I would have thought that in the workings of Parliament when representatives are to be appointed representing the Opposition side of the Parliament, any Opposition would assert its right to nominate its own Opposition members. I notice that  Senator Hall  smiles at that statement. But I am quite sure that when he was a member of a party which had representatives in the Parliament when he was in South Australia, he would have asserted as the Leader of the Liberal Partythe Liberal Country League as it then washis right to nominate who his Party's representatives would be and not concede to the Labor Party the right to nominate who any members might be for the purposes of a particular function. I am quite sure that the Australian Labor Party would not concede to another Party the right to nominate which of the Labor Party's members would attend a particular conference. 
The autonomy of political parties in the determination of who shall be their representatives is vital to the functioning of any Party. The attempt by the Prime Minister not only to nominate 8 Government representatives but also to nominate one of the Opposition representatives is something which I do not believe any reasonable minded person could accept. In those circumstances for it to be suggested that there is, on the part of the Opposition, an obstinacy which is to be described as pig-headedness or a refusal to submit to a reasonable proposition is totally unfounded. At the Constitutional Convention there was every opportunity for the proposition which prevailed in regard to all the other State delegations to prevail in the case of the Commonwealth delegation, that is, that there was a representation from each House of the Parliament and that there was equality of representation between the parties represented in the Parliament. That principle of representation ought to have prevailed on this occasion as it prevailed in the Commonwealth on the previous occasions when agreement was made between the parties as to the composition of the delegation. 

 Senator Hall, as the representative of the Liberal Movement, was unable to secure nationally one per cent of the votes. He has a base which is in South Australia. The South Australian Parliament has given to his Liberal Movement a representative at the Constitutional Convention. There was no occasion, even if it were a proper argument to be adverted to on the national scale, for saying that his Party would not be represented. But in terms of the national picture, it is completely unreasonable to seek to say to the Opposition Parties that they must accept that a person who is not one of their members is entitled to representation. If that is to occur, let it be by agreement or let it be by the Government conceding one of its places to a person whom it believes should attend the Convention. 
As I have said, I have raised this matter for the purpose of making the record clear in fundamentals as to what has taken place, and to explain why the Opposition Parties regard the Government as having taken a course which was calculated to produce the result which has ensued. I believe that for reasons best known to  Mr Whitlam  he decided that the Commonwealth should retire from the Constitutional Convention with what grace it was able to muster. The grace which it has been able to muster is sustained only by a few erroneous statements provided for it by some docile writers in the media who accept the Government's point of view. I would have thought that if blame is to be attached to anybody for the failure of this Convention to proceed, it is the blame which goes to a Government which sought to assert that the Opposition representation should be as the Government decided and not, as would be customary in parliamentary circles, as the Opposition itself wanted it. 
-We have heard a lot of tripe this evening.- The gripe we had from  Senator Hall  is consistent with his usual gripy-type speeches. I was surprised to hear the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  speak as he did because  Senator Wheeldon-  made1 statements indicating that  Senator Hall  has occasionally voted with the Labor Government. If one looks at the records one will find th'at Senator Hall has voted mostly with the Labor Government and rarely with the Opposition. Regarding the matter of the Constitutional Convention I think it is right that if the Opposition is: to have? representatives on that body it should have the right to select those members.  Senator Wheeldon  referred to the Senate,Select  Committee  on Securities and Exchange and said that the (Democratic Labor Party . had a member on that Committee^ .It should be remembered that the DLP had 5 senators in this, chamber at that time. The position then was entirely different to the situation we now h"ave: where -one person in- this chamber represents another segment of politics. To suggest that one person rates the same as 5 people in selecting - 
If the Opposition desires to elect somebody, that is a matter for the Opposition. But for the Government to say that the Opposition must have a person, a single honourable senator in this chamber, as a member of its delegation I think is entirely wrong. As far as the situation is concerned, I think the 'Australian' took a wrong view. As a matter of fact, over a period of time the 'Australian' has shown an attitude towards the Senate which indicates that it has not a true assessment of the Senate and its work. Its editorial is in accordance with the warped mind which a number of editors, such as the editor of the 'Australian', has evidenced over  some  time in relation to the Senate. There is no question that the recognised principle is that the Opposition has the right to select who represents it at such things as this Constitutional Convention. 
Does  Senator Poyser  like to cast personal reflections? 
The honourable senator is casting personal reflections in relation to a matter which is entirely outside this subject. I advise him that my record is clean. I believe that the correct principle is that if delegates are being sent to any institution, organisation or convention by the Opposition, then the Opposition has the right to select whom it desires to go there. I do not think it is the right thing for the Government to say that an individual outside the official Opposition should go if the Opposition does not feel that that person should represent it. That is a simple answer to the question. Because the Government might like to make a pay-off to one of the members of the Parliament because of the patronage which has been extended to it by that member, that is no reason why this Opposition should fall for such a trick by the Government. 

 Senator STEELE HALL (South AustraliaLeader of the Liberal Movement)-  Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -If Senator Cavanagh is about to say what the arrangement is for this sitting 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Progress reported. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, this Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 is causing grave concern to us and it is only to be expected that it is causing the same concern to a vast number of others right throughout the nation. 
There are many parts or clauses in this Bill with which we disagree and which we find unacceptable. However, we must be fairly brief in our Petition, as you would expect, and ask you to please reject the Bill in consideration of the convictions of a preponderance of your Electors which we are sure we represent. We feel sure that we are part of what is termed  the silent ( except at election-time ) majority '. 
It should be quite obvious to all, that the permanency of the married state must be preserved, in the long-term interest of the Community and the Nation as a whole. Hence, the Government should do all that is possible to promote and preserve the permanency of the married state instead of undermining its foundations by providing for easy divorce and thereby creating hardship and frustration for, in most cases, the Mother and Children. 
Furthermore, our women-folk must surely and inevitably become chattels or things for men to take as they please, as could also happen in reverse. 
High ideals of mankind are forgotten in the Bill. Likewise overlooked, or deliberately left out, is the axiomatic and traditional regard for the Natural Law, the impregnable rock of civilisation, i.e., marriage, as and being, the basis of human society. 
Instead of neglecting to preserve the ideals of the married state, there should be statesman-like legislation to help unstable and broken marriages, and every effort to make premarriage counselling a pre-requisite of the contract. 
Any one of us would be pleased to hear from any one of you on this subject and to receive advice of your convictions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
No reference shall be made in a Petition to any Debate in Parliament of the same Session. 
As some, if not a considerable number, of the petitions which have been presented refer to the current debate by name and definition concerning the Family Law Bill I should like to have your ruling,  Mr President,  if possible as to where those petitions stand. 
I desire to ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What purpose does the Government expect to achieve by doubling the cost of fuel to international airlines refuelling in Australia? Is it not a fact that the increased charge will go to the funds of the oil companies? How does this benefit Australia? Will it not benefit only the oil companies? Is it logical to consider fuel consumed during an international flight as an export commodity since it is never delivered to another country? If airlines have been considered to have uplifted excessive quantities of fuel in Australia, could this practice not be controlled by charging a premium price for any fuel lifted in excess of normal operational needs? Is it not realised that the doubling of fuel costs to international air services will increase the cost of air travel, which will have harmful effects upon our tourist industry, and will be an increased cost to Australian citizens desiring to travel overseas? Is it not unfair that new air services such as Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd and Garuda Indonesian Airways should have to pay the increased charge immediately? Does the Government not realise that the extra charge could also have a very detrimental effect on our Australian airline, Qantas Airways Ltd? 
I have listened to the debate and I want to say that I am one of those who believe that when a nation or a state or a council sets up its public offices in a beautiful setting, such as we have in front of Parliament House, it is not the right of anyone to monopolise that setting and to put unsightly structures on it. This is not the first time it has been done. When my own Party was in government I took them on in this very chamber for allowing tents to remain outside Parliament House for so many weeks. 
I am not speaking of the Attorney-General. 
If you will wait a while I will tell you that at that time I attacked my own Government for not removing those tents. I thought it was a sign of weakness not to remove them and I still think it is again a sign of weakness. I am not blaming the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  because, knowing him, I believe that probably no one has a higher regard for Parliament and for the appearance of things generally in this country. But I do believe that these tents should not be allowed to remain. They are unsightly and their presence is completely contrary to what was intended when the whole of this area was set out. As I said at the time when my own Party was in government - 
The concrete jungles in Sydney have buildings which are established on freehold or leasehold properties which those people possess. As a local government man, you should know that just as well as I and others do. 
I know your local government record and you should know it. If  Senator Gietzelt  were mayor of his community and somebody dumped themselves in front of his town hall he would probably be one of the first to do something about it. The point is that if we are going to have law and order in this country it should be conformed to by everyone. Because people belong to a certain section of the community there is no reason why they should have privileges above those of other people. In the case of the Aboriginal people here, why should they have any priority over white Australian people in relation to being on that area. If white Australian people - 
If white Australian people were to arrive here and dump their caravans on that site- and I said exactly the same thing to my own Government- you and everybody else would be squealing about it. What right have they got to be dumped there? So far as I am concerned, the essence of the conduct of this Parliament and of the grounds surrounding it should be in accordance with the law of this country and there is no right for those people to be there. On the previous occasion when they were there, from what can be told by the citizens of this area about what went on there and the people living there, it indicated to me that it certainly was not of a very high standard. I stand for law and order in this country and I believe that those people should not be allowed to remain there with those tents and be unsightly and a nuisance. If we have got any stomach about us, any respect for decency and law and order in this Parliament- it does not matter whether it is under my Party's government or this Government- we should act to clean the area up and make it look decent and remove the unsightly obstructions which are there at the present time. Those are my sentiments. I do not make a personal attack on anybody. I have always looked upon this areas as being the control of the portfolio that was formerly that of the Minister for the Interior. 
Yes, now it would come under  Mr Bryant's  administration. 
I know, but it comes within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Capital Territory and some action should be taken, and I believe he is the man who should talk to the Attorney-General or whoever else it may be necessary to talk to in order to get action. Those are my sentiments and I think that the average Australian would agree entirely with what I have said. It is about time that we in this Parliament stopped having racism in this country and stopped giving preference to a certain section of the community over the other Australian people. One public accountant said to me recently that an Aboriginal man came into his office with a loan to buy a business. The Australian Government provided the money for him to buy the business. What did this Aboriginal say to the public accountant? He said: 'You know, this is something you white people don't get'. It is about time that we stopped this racism and stopped giving preference to one section of the community. 
I desire to speak in a different way about this item. The sum of $4.6m has been set aside for the purchase of what is termed art. There is a terrible lot of snobbery in the art world and we get a lot of pretence from people who put forward certain concoctions that make one wonder whether one has just come out of a delirium. These concoctions are put forth - 
I do not come out of them, fortunately. These things are put forward as art. I do not know how many average parliamentarians take a real interest in art. It is the same with architecture. I know that  Senator Button  has taken an interest in architecture. I have also. However, I am sure that in the art world there are a lot of people who would not know very much about this so-called contemporary art. As a consequence we can easily be taken for a ride in the purchase of these concoctions that come under the title of contemporary art. 
I remember after we bought ' Blue Poles ' that I spoke of it as shickery art. I said then that the person who developed that particular painting must have been on the shicker. I was rather interested to see a few days later that a cobber of Pollock came out with a statement in the Press that he and Pollock were on the booze, on the shicker. Pollock started to throw paint around and he threw paint around and as a result we got the development of 'Blue Poles'. This indicates how we can be taken for a ride. We paid US$2 m for this concoction and it was supposed to be a great piece of art. I know that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  mentioned some friend or partner of his who talked about our having a Pollock. The other Pollock items might have been done under less bleary conditions. However, this cobber of Pollock told us this publicly. It was clearly indicated that we were a bunch of suckers in Australia for having bought Blue Poles' for $2m. It was indicated that it could have been bought for a lot less. 
I know that all sorts of things are said. I have talked to people about art and have been told that what I see is what the artist sees and eventually develops. When artists see these sorts of things it makes one wonder at times what sort of mental conceptions they have. What we have to think about in buying works for a national art gallery is that we are buying something for people to enjoy. Do not tell me that the people of Australia will receive a great thrill from seeing Blue Poles'. I would be amazed if that were the general feeling of the people. We have just sunk US$2m into a work of art for which nobody else would have paid the price. I know that it is easy for the people handling the sale to tell us that lots of others wanted it. We obtained it for US$2m and it is generally conceded that we could have purchased if for a lot less. Since then we have bought another abortion of a thing called Woman V. Honourable senators must have seen reproductions of it. Have they ever seen any woman looking like that? 

 - Senator Missen tells me to use my imagination. I am a bachelor and I still have the opportunity of looking around. I would certainly need some imagination to see a woman like 'Woman V. That is the sort of thing that is being put up. 
We are very fussy up there. 
It is a boom place. It is really on the go. As a matter of fact, it is one of the few places that have not been affected by Gough 's catastrophic treatment of Australia. If one looks at this second concoction that we have bought it makes one wonder where we are being led. In our national art gallery let us think of the money that we are spending on a few so-called works of art and how many people will see them in this city of Canberra. This year we are spending $4,600,000 for works for the art gallery. That is a very big expenditure. I am convinced that we could purchase lots of paintings- works of artthat would be more attractive to look at and would be better received by the people of Australia instead of spending all this money on a few abortions. When people look at them they must go away with a strange feeling about human nature generally. 
The time has come for us to stop being led up the garden path by these so-called art experts. They will lead us anywhere. They will give us all the stories imaginable. They will kid us. We will find that here in Australia we will have a collection of items and in the years to come people will wonder what sort of people we were to buy them. In speaking like this I am not speaking from a political point of view; I am speaking as an Australian. If we are to build an art gallery let us have an art gallery that will be of some real treasure and worth to us, something that will be worth while for people to look at and enjoy. Let us go past this mad age of contemporary art into the days of the great artists. One can understand their paintings but one cannot understand what these things are. Let me illustrate the drift that is taking place. In Kings Hall there is a painting of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  If one looks at it one would think that he had just come out of a delirium. It certainly does not look like him. 
At least one can recognise them. But this portrait makes one feel as though the whole place has been on the tank. I think that this money should be spent in a responsible manner. We should not be kidded along by these socalled arty people. They will take us up the garden path as quickly as possible. Let me give an instance of the pretence and the snobbery that is to be found in the art world. A few years ago in this city of Canberra an art competition was held and one of the contemporary paintings entered won it. 
-It was said that the artist was a great genius, somebody of outstanding talent. 
It does not do any harm to repeat the story. Some of the Australian Labor Party supporters, some members very prominent in the Party and the Executive have said what they think about the art works that are being purchased. As a matter of fact, I think that  Mr Jack  Egerton said something about it in one of his bursts. This is not a political matter. I remind honourable senators of the great art competition that took place in this city of Canberra. The contemporary piece of art that won was called a great work of genius. It was said that the artist had wonderful possibilities. The judges' faces were red when they found out what happened. A child at home had got hold of a paint brush and had thrown paint on a board. As a joke the parents entered it in the competition. It won. It was called a great piece of genius. It was said that the artist had wonderful ability. A joke won the competition in this city of Canberra. 
In my opinion, we have had a great joke played on us with the type of things that are being bought with Australian money at a terrific price, far greater than should have been paid if we had wanted to buy them at all. I think it is time we woke up, just as the people woke up to the Canberra art competition. As  Senator Jessop  said, let us investigate how these things were purchased, where the money was passed, who received commission and who received side commissions. Then I think we would know a little more about the story than we know now. For heaven's sake do not let us remain suckers in this world of art snobbery. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that over many years the Australian Labor Party has been a high tariff party and that it has adopted this policy with the idea of creating work for our people? Is it not a fact that the unemployment problem began in Australia when the Labor Party reversed its established policy of high tariffs by cutting tariffs and allowing cheap goods, such as clothing from Asian countries, to come into this country, thus putting our own people out of work? 
I desire to say a few things. I intended to say them in the debate on the previous Bill but I will do so now. I have noticed a determination on the part of the Government to try to make out that the inflation and unemployment in this country have been caused- 
By way of short preface to my question I should like to say that a judge of the New South Wales courts to whom I was speaking some time ago said that whenever  Senator Murphy  appeared before him as counsel he always had a very well prepared brief. In view of this I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not a fact that this ability of his to prepare a good brief is being stretched to the utmost in presenting a hopeless case that the Government did not create inflation and unemployment in Australia? It has been stated that some of the economic mess in this country is due to the obstruction of the Senate. Can the Leader of the Government mention one Bill of an economic character which has been thrown out by the Senate? In view of the statement that New Zealand is a perfect example of a Labor government's running a country without obstruction, has he seen the Bank of New South Wales Review', No. 12, of October 1974, which states that indicators now point to a sharp contraction of the New Zealand economy in the second half of 1974, that business confidence has been declining steadily in recent months and that signs of weakening in the labour market are apparent? 
-A case is being made out by the Government- it is more like a propaganda message- that inflation and unemployment in this country are operating here only because they are operating in other countries. Of course, that is a complete fabrication. The position is that we have inflation and massive unemployment in this country because of the actions which this Government has taken since it came into office in December 1972. It is very clear that when it took office inflation was not an item of great concern to this country because at that time it was running at about 4 per cent. Today it has shot up considerably and yesterday afternoon I noticed that one newspaper said that inflation was rising at the rate of 25 per cent while another said it was 30 per cent. This indicates that inflation today is getting to a very dangerous level. Many people may not think inflation worries them very much but what it does is to cause their money to lose its value. Those thrifty people who have saved find that the value is going out of their money, and this is a very serious thing to those people. Therefore, I think that people should be awakened to this problem, 
We were told the story by  Mr Whitlam  during the 18 May election campaign that the Government had collared inflation which was then on the down trend. What he did not tell the people of Australia was that the March quarter always shows the lowest inflation rate of the year. But that particular March quarter happened to be the worst March quarter for 22 years. I believe that the Prime Minister misled the public when he stated that the Government had collared inflation because ever since then the inflation rate has gone up considerably. There is no argument that inflation is now raging at a very dangerous rate. To say that inflation in this country is imported is sheer nonsense. We are fortunate in that we have not been affected like many other countries which have had to import great quantities of oil, thanks to Liberal-Country Party Governments which gave encouragement to the development of this industry for over 23 years. We encouraged the search for oil and as a result this country is a very lucky country. I believe that if that tempo of search had continued we would have been today in an even better position. That is one aspect of inflation. But it is rather serious when the Government of the day comes out at election time and says that it has collared inflation, that it is going down, when it is really rising at a very rapid rate. 
To suggest that we have unemployment because there is unemployment overseas is just plain nonsense. We had what might be termed a very reasonable amount of unemployment when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office. It was the actions of this Government which brought on the great rate of unemployment that has since taken place. There is no question that in days gone by the Labor Party was known as a high tariff Party because high tariffs meant that our own Australian industries, behind that tariff protection wall, had a chance to build up without fear of competition from other countries. But what did this Whitlam Labor Government do? It cut tariffs on some imported products that are also made in Australia by 25 per cent. This was the result of one of the great theories of  Mr Whitlam  who knows nothing about economics. The result has been that we have had a flood of goods from cheap labour countries, from South East Asia in particular. The result has been that thousands of Australians have been put out of work. These people have held demonstrations. We read about factories closing and unfortunately a number of these factories have been located in country areas. With all the Government's talk about decentralisation, this has been one of the greatest tragedies for decentralisation in this country. Factory after factory has closed down. There is a serious situation in the clothing industry, the footwear industry, the car industry and so on. 
This is not only said by me as a Liberal senator. What did  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the head of the Australian Council of Trade Unions say? He was stressing the great seriousness of unemployment, so much so that he put the gun at the head of the Government and gave it just a few days to rectify the position. If the leader of the ALP and leader of the ACTU says that it indicates that the step that this Government took was a very serious one indeed. I feel that unemployment was started by the Whitlam Labor Government.  Mr Whitlam  did not care two hoots about the unemployed. He galloped off overseas on one of his many splendid trips. He is now to have another trip for his Christmas holidays and will see his own family in London at a cost of half a million dollars to the people of Australia. Does he worry about the people who are unemployed and the people who are having great trouble? As we know women in Queensland demonstrated and carried placards because they are out of jobs in the clothing industry. 
I wish to say to my colleague from Queensland that I believe in the sincerity of the women who turned up for the demonstration. Those women are out of work and they are asking for jobs. There is no argument about it. Even  Mr Hawke  said that they were out of work and that jobs should be found for them. Goodness gracious me, what happened because of the ultimatum that was put forward? The kitchen Cabinet, or whoever it is, met and came out with a number of proposals to rectify the position. I think it is quite apparent that this Government has had to back pedal on every one of the steps it has taken since it came into office in 1972. It has done a complete somersault. As a matter of fact I read an article the other day which stated that this Government has been the greatest somersaulter ever in this Parliament. As a matter of fact I believe it has somersaulted to such an extent that I understand  Mr Whitlam  is thinking about joining a Russian troupe of acrobats which is coming to Australia as the leading Australian somersaulter 
It is a very serious matter to know that this Government did these things purposely. There is no question about it. The Government created unemployment purposely. It is what it was aiming for. Why it did so, I do not know. We are being told here day after day that the reason the economy is in a mess in this country is the obstruction of the Senate. I have a list of the Bills that the Senate has deferred or rejected. None of the Bills which have been deferred or defeated by the Senate has had anything to do with the economics of this country; nothing at all. How can the Senate be said to have brought about unemployment, inflation and the wreckage of the economy of this country? In 1972  Mr Whitlam  promised the people of Australia the moon. What have they got? They have almost a wrecked economy; they have raging inflation; and they have massive unemployment. There is no question about it. The people of this country are worried about what is going on. 
The Government has somersaulted. It has taken an about turn on practically everything it has done in order to try to recitify the position. The unfortunate part is that once these things start they have a psychological effect. Putting people out of work in the way the Government has done is like standing up a set of dominoes and touching one. They all go. Whereas this country previously had confidence today the business community is lacking in confidence. Business is worried. Large firms have gone into liquidation. It is all right saying business should have done this and should have done that. When firms are working under a credit scheme they are entitled to credit. They work on the basis of credit. It is just like sap in a tree. If a tree is ringbarked and the sap is cut off it dies quickly. If the source of credit for these big industries and firms is cut off the same happens to them. Not only is wreckage brought to the business houses but it also occurs in the way of unemployment for the people of this country. 
I take this opportunity of speaking because of things I have heard said here today.  Senator Wriedt  spoke in such a way that I want to say that the wreckage that this Labor Government has caused in this country to our economy, the raging inflation it has brought about and the massive unemployment, with lots more to come, has had nothing to do with the Senate. It has been caused by the silly schemes of the Labor 
Party. When it was put into office it purposely set out to cause inflation and to wreck the economy of this country. I hope that the people of this country will be alert and awake and realise that responsibility for the tragedy of moving from a country with a solid financial base to what we have today lies to the discredit of the Labor Party. During the 23 years that the LiberalCountry Parties were in office there was solid progress. We were respected throughout the world because of our reliability in business and industry. 
We hear the Government yelling about multinationals. In my region of Mackay in north Queensland there are coal fields. For many years we were trying to get Australian people to work them. They would not be interested. The multinationals came in and brought about the prosperity of that area. The men working in those areas got much higher wages than they ever had before. We are very fortunate for the multinationals bringing their money in and developing these resources of Australia. Because of the overseas credits they are earning this country is stable- even under the present conditions. The Labor Party talks about these multi-nationals.  Dr Cairns  was in America recently pleading with these people to come and put money into Australia again. He talked to the gangster oil sheikhs from the oil countries and tried to get them to bring money into Australia. This is all back pedalling and exactly the opposite of what the Government said before. 

 Mr Whitlam now talks about how wonderful private enterprise is for the creation of work. What did he say before? When we come across this hypocrisy it makes us sick. Why, the Labor Party, during the last election campaign, engaged an overseas-owned multi-national advertising company to do its advertising so it would get back into government. The Party had the same foreign-owned multi-national company to do its advertising in 1972. What is more interesting than anything else is that the Labor Party still owed the foreign-owned multinational company $200,000 for the 1972 election campaign. At the 18 May election these haters of multi-national foreign-owned companies had a multi-national company financing their campaign to the extent of $200,000 and more. 
I do not know. I have not checked on that. This is a case of hypocrisy. On the one hand the Government criticised the multi-nationals but now it is pandering to them to bring their money into Australia and help develop the country further. 
Let us be straight about these sorts of things. I resent the statement that the Senate has caused the trouble. The raging unemployment, the inflation that is running like fire through this country and the wrecked economy has been caused by this Labor Government and not by the Senate. It has been caused by  Mr Whitlam  and probably his kitchen Cabinet. I think probably that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and a few of the more down to earth members should be taken into that kitchen Cabinet. I am sure that it would then bring forth a less indigestible meal for the people of Australia than the present kitchen Cabinet has. I want to say that it is not the Senate that is to blame; the Whitlam Labor Government is to blame for the mess in which this country now finds itself. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Ordered that the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Senator Greenwood was asking what would happen in distant places where there was no family court. To which court would people be able to take their troubles? Of course all the lawyers have been talking but would they just tell us whether people can take such a matter to another court or do they have to travel a few hundred miles to find a family court? To me that is a simple issue. I would like a simple reply, yes or no. 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General. Is he aware that the International Air Transport Association has placed minimum productivity levels upon travel agents, demanding that they write a definite minimum amount of business each year? Is he aware that 3 large southern travel agents are being threatened by the International Air Transport Association with the loss of their International Air Transport Association agency accreditation because they have failed to reach their productivity levels? Does he consider that such productivity demands are an infringement of reasonable trade practices? Does this come within the jurisdiction of the Trade Practices Act? If not, will he consider amending the Act to cover such arbitrary demands by the overseas airlines organisation? 
-After listening to this debate as a layman, I think the points brought forward by  Senator Chaney,  following upon what  Senator Greenwood  said, probably represent the ideal. To set up a special Commonwealth court throughout the nation to deal with this type of work would involve a terrific amount of work and expenditure in putting up buildings and arranging for courts to traverse the whole of Australia. If the matter can be handled through the States which already have a set up of this kind there is no reason why, if it is properly set out, it cannot be worked through the States in a much more economic and probably in just as effective a manner as it could be done by the Australian Government. The points raised, and possibly the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  and others, may represent the ideal solution so far as this Bill is concerned. 
-The words 'or such greater number' do not sound to me to be a very good expression. I think that it should read: 'and such additional judges . . . from time to time '. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: How much longer is the Government prepared to stand the public criticism which  Mr Perkins  is making of the head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Dexter?  If any non-Aboriginal public servant made such damaging statements about the head of his department what action would be taken in respect of that non-Aboriginal public servant? 
-But this is the other oath with which we are concerned and the Attorney-General has not indicated his attitude to my amendment except by his statement 'no' when I called for a division. My argument to the Committee is that we have a form of oath which every judge takes that he will well and truly serve Her Majesty the Queen or His Majesty the King in a certain office. That is not the language of the oath or affirmation here being required. My amendment seeks to ensure that the words 'I will well and truly serve Her Majesty the Queen'the customary form, the traditional oath or affirmation- are included as part of the words of the oath which everyone takes. Therefore if there is a vote 'no ' when the amendment is put and it is declared that the noes have it, I will seek a division. 
-If the Government wants to adjourn, fair enough. 
The position was well stated, I think, in an editorial on 3 1 October in the Melbourne 'Age', just as this issue was developing. I do not often quote that paper in terms of approval but if one can find an occasion when words that have been used express what is clearly in one's mind, it may have approval - 
Now 15 unions have refused to build the Newport station although they say they will co-operate in a project on a suitable alternative site. The Premier  (Mr Hamer)  is right to describe their action as a defiance of Parliament. It is not the province ofthe unions to run the State, lt would be a miscarriage of accountability if the unions were allowed to dictate to the Government the terms of how power was supplied, where it came from and under what conditions. 
One can see how this is working in with a general pattern of seeking power when I recall to the Senate the statement made by the Victorian Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union at a University of New South Wales seminar in Sydney last Thursday. I think this statement is an indication of the attitude which the union movement is adopting, and which  Mr Halfpenny  in particular is promoting, and which the Victorian Labor Party is going along with. This newspaper report states: 
Trade union power should bc directed at challenging 'the very basis of society', the Victorian Secretary ofthe Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Mr J. Halfpenny said yesterday. 

 Mr Halfpenny forecast increasing moves by the trade union movement to take away power from its political ally, the Australian Labor Party. 
Many sections of the community are now becoming concerned about the alienation of people from decision-making in our society". He said that the destruction ofthe capitalist system would bc in the interests of a better community, with industrial harmony and job satisfaction. 
More and more the trade union movement will take power back from its political wing because of the emerging worker challenge to the value of society',  Mr Halfpenny  said'. 
It is in that context that this particular proposal ought to be viewed. The Victorian Government is to be commended for undertaking a massive publicity campaign, by newspaper and television advertisements, to inform the people of Victoria, and I hope a wider audience throughout Australia, of what is about to happen in Victoria. 1 believe every opportunity ought to be taken to emphasise that there is a threat to the position of Parliament, to the position of an elected Government and the whole institution of democracy in this country. The union position is one of arrogant assumption of power- they are right and the Government is wrong. The Government's decision to act as Parliament has authorised, and as the independent hearings have disclosed, is regarded by  Mr Halfpenny  as a confrontation. He regards the Government's decision as provoking direct confrontation with the unions but it is the unions which are directly and provocatively confronting Parliament and the people, lt is this issue to which 1 believe it is in the interests of all people in this country to have regard and to ensure that when this challenge does come, as it is developing at the present time, this Parliament is found on the side of the Victorian Government and upholding law in that State. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of his reply relating to the Prime Minister's visit overseas at Christmas time, does he not consider, in view of the serious economic circumstances operating in this country at the moment, that it is the duty ofthe Prime Minister to be here at this very important time? Will he express a view to whether the countries proposed to be visited would be very adversely affected if the Prime Minister did not visit them? Is it not appropriate that the visit is timed so that the Prime Minister might have Christmas in England with his family? Does he not consider that this trip by the Prime Minister and the 2 trips by the Leader of the Opposition, which this Government is paying for from the money of the people, are just junkets so that people can have a good time? 
The PRES DENT- Order ! I must remind  Senator Wood  that he is asking the Leader of the Government for an opinion. I ask the honourable senator to be more specific in asking his question. 
Could not these trips overseas by both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition be considered to be junkets? Would this money not serve a much better human purpose if it were diverted in this country to cancer research which is so badly languishing because of shortage of funds? 
-The attitude ofthe Government Party senators is that they must get this Bill through, because it is common talk in the lobbies of this Parliament that there has been a constant wrangle day by day as to whether or not the Family Law Bill is to be the subject for debate in the Senate. We have on the list at the moment some 40 Bills which have been introduced into the Senate during the past fortnight and which have been held up because of the debate on the Family Law Bill. 

 Senator Greenwood to relate his remarks directly to his amendment, and we may be able to get a vote. 
The Committee has decided by its earlier votes that the ground for divorce should be one year's separation. All 1 am concerned to say is that if it is to be one year's separation let it be a genuine separation, and what is proposed in this Bill is not a genuine separation. No matter how much people may seek to argue that the words in the Bill constitute a genuine separation they are arguing, I believe, an impossibility because I cannot accept- I do not believe that ordinary people faced with ordinary situations would acceptthat if a husband and wife are living together under the same roof, in one house, in which the wife provides the daily meals for the husband and in which she provides other household services, such as washing his clothes, making his bed and doing all the other household chores which happily married families would expect a wife to do for a husband, that constitutes a separation which ought to be regarded as a separation for the purpose of divorce. If people want to argue that way, let them build up the arguments and show why it is a ground for divorce. It is that sort of argument which brings the law into disrepute. 
It is no excuse to say that rich people can live in large houses and that one party can live in one corner of an establishment and the other party can live in the far corner of the establishment and that they never meet, and therefore there are 2 separate households. That type of situation is rare. If people are wealthy enough to live in that situation, let them separate if they want to use this ground for divorce. But I think that it is absolutely absurd where people are living in a three or four roomed house and we want to establish a proper ground for divorce- that is what we are concerned about- to say that they can be regarded as separate and living apart if they still continue to live in a three or four roomed house, particularly when they are jointly caring for the children. It is humbug and hypocrisy to say that that can be a situation in which there can be a ground for divorce. 
There was another argument which I submit is completely specious. I think it is absolutely specious to use the argument that where parties cannot live together and they want to be divorced, they should not be required to live separately and apart because it may not be possible for the wife or the husband to leave the house in which they are living together. I know there may be problems like that. When we have argued, as we argued with regard to clause 26, that there may be occasions when a husband is ill-treating a wife, is subjecting her to cruelty and to mistreatment which makes it intolerable, we have been told that the wife can go to the court and get an injunction and that will require the husband to live separate and apart from her. If it is easy enough, as a matter of argument, to ask a wife to do that, why is it unreasonable to expect either party, if the parties cannot live together, to separate from the house in which they are living? The 2 arguments do not stand together, and when the attempt is made to equate the one with the other then I think it reveals the hollowness ofthe arguments which are being put forward. It is a terribly difficult task to argue against the combined strength of a Committee which has looked at this Bill for months, and against the AttorneyGeneral, who presented it, with any hope of having a point of view even listened to, let alone accepted, because it is held that only one point of view ought to prevail. 
I simply say that if one looks at the authorities as decided by the courts the position is not as the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator James  McClelland, declared it to be. I do not care whether one looks at the book which was edited by the Attorney-General's adviser,  Mr Watson,  together with  Mr Justice  Toose and  Dr Benjafield,  whether one looks at  Mr Finlay  's volume or whether one looks at the other writings of the academic writers, but there is generally accepted to be a very real area of doubt as to what is the proper material upon which a court should decide whether or not separation has been established between the parties. I refer to the volume Toose, Benjafield and Watson on family law, which 1 concede was written in 1968, but on my researches the position has not significantly altered in the intervening years. They say at paragraph 409 - 
So far as concerns desertion under s. 28b - 
That is, of the present legislation,  it is clear that there may be destruction of consortium - 
That is, the desire to live together-   . . while the parties still occupy the same house ... but it has been much debated whether the same approach can be made to the ground of separation . . . In the United States - 
And this is an indication of where the United States position is quite contrary to what the Attorney-General is urging on Australia, and he is urging a vastly more liberal position in Australia- 
In the United States the courts seem consistently to have held that the ground of separation is not available where the parties have occupied the same house. The courts appear to have reached this position either on the basis of grammatical interpretation ofthe words used in the relevant legislation or on the basis that the policy underlying the legislation is that dissolution should bc granted only where it is clear to those in the neighbourhood that the marriage has broken down. 
If people are living together in the same house and to all intents and appearances the wife is providing for the husband the ordinary household services that one would expect a wife to provide for a husband, how can it be reasonably argued or assumed that that marriage has broken down? If we allow that situation to exist, then it appears to me that we are making of the question of separation a mockery and a farce. 
Why is it unreasonable to say that to establish this aspect of separation the parties should be prepared to live not under the same roof but in separate residences? To the ordinary lay mind, to anyone who asks the question: Are the parties separated?, one would expect to get a response: Obviously they are separated because they are not living together'. But if the answer is 'They can 't be separated, they are living together and she is providing for him', then I should have thought and most people would assume that there is no separation existing. Yet this is the point which is at the heart of this debate, and I have not yet heard from the Attorney-General or from any member of the Committee why it should be otherwise. As I said earlier, it is regrettable that the Committee did not take further time to examine the matter and to elaborate the position more than it did. All that the Committee said in its report is this: 
The provision in Clause 27 (2) reproduces the Common Law position that separation may occur 'under the one roof. 
I interpolate that that is not the Common Law position, and indeed the issue of whether or not that is the law is one in which the High Court has decided precisely the opposite in its only decision on this question in Main v. Main under the Western Australian legislation and therefore that particular assertion is wrong. The report continues: 
The Committee believes this requires extension by providing that such separation may occur notwithstanding that one party has from time to time performed services for the other party. 
It is trying to create by legislation a notional situation, a make-believe situation, that the parties have separated when in fact they are performing services for each other, and I do not believe that the Parliament should lend itself to establishing that farce. 
Amendment  (Senator Greenwood's)  negatived. 
I agree with what the Attorney-General has said, that costs can be a great burden to people who want to get disentangled from marriage. Is there no way in which we can settle this matter now so that this difficulty will be overcome? It is quite apparent that the Attorney-General is sympathetic to this idea of relieving the costs of people involved in divorce actions. I just wonder whether the Attorney-General could present something to us now that might overcome this difficulty. 
I would like to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for some information. Clause 95( 1 ) (a) states: 
A person shall not print or publish- 
Any statement or report that proceedings have been instituted in the Family Court or in another court . . . 
The Bill that was brought in by  Sir Garfield  Barwick prevented the publication of details of divorce proceedings. I noticed that a certain judge on occasions went out of his way to make some remarks. I asked  Sir Garfield  Barwick why those statements or questions were published. He said that there was nothing to stop statements or observations made by the judge from being published. These statements may reveal certain activities of the parties to divorce proceedings. 
The Attorney-General might say whether this new sub-clause tightens up that aspect and prevents judges from making observations which can be published. 
-This Bill came before us as a non-party matter and it is one of great moment to many people. I would like to compliment the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on this great Bill of very great moment and concern which he brought forth. I do so because it deals with a very serious human problem. Therefore it requires deep thought, consideration and sympathy for people who come under its ambit. I know that the Bill has been before the Senate in various ways for quite a long time. There has been a feeling that not enough time has been given to it but that depends on the individual. Each parliamentarian has been supplied with numerous petitions and numerous letters for and against the Bill because with this type of legislation there always is a division of conscience, heart and mind. Probably also there are religious opinions and scruples and other such considerations. It is very difficult to bring in a Bill that will be suitable to everybody. 
My opinion is that the Attorney-General put a tremendous amount of work into this Bill. Over a period of time he considered the representations made and the debate in this chamber revealed that serious consideration was given to the Bill. I believe in saying that people have done a good job. I think the Bill brought into effect through the sponsorship of the Attorney-General will result in the right consideration being given to people needing it in the circumstances dealt with by the Bill. I sincerely believe that the Bill is a real mark in the history of legislation of its type passed by the Parliament of this country. I say thank you to the Attorney-General and I congratulate him. 
-This is an important measure. There is no question about the fact that there are some aspects of this legislation which honourable senators must treat with suspicion. One matter that has been featured quite a lot is optional preferences. I do not think this has been introduced with the idea of getting the best result, so far as the people are concerned. That system of voting has been tried before and it has been given away. If I remember rightly, it was tried in Queensland in the 1930s but it does not exist today. It was changed but not by a party of my own political thinking. Compulsory preference voting is something that was brought about to get the ultimate decision of the people. It clearly works in this way. If the majority of the people do not want a person and indicate that they want somebody else they are given a chance to get somebody else. I think that ultimately it is the best way of finding out the expression of the people. That should be our aim when we introduce electoral laws. 
People get airy fairy ideas about this matter and speak about optional preferences. If we want to get the best result from the people I am convinced that the best way is the system of compulsory preference voting. The people who advocate optional preferences argue that we must have compulsory voting in many cases. Why do we have compulsory voting? We have it to try to make sure that everybody in Australia records their opinion by voting for a Party which they want to lead this country and which they think will be of benefit to the people. If we want compulsory voting, why do we stop at compulsory preferences? It is rather interesting that this legislation should be introduced now. I am convinced that if the Government felt that it was going to get the best deal on compulsory preferences we would not have this legislation before us now. 
I make no bones about saying that the Labor Party, over a number of years, has never been averse to acting quickly and doing something which it believes is to its advantage. As a matter of fact, the very creation of the system that we have in the Senate today was brought about by a Labor government. It was not brought about with the idea of making sure that everybody had an equal go. That was not in the mind of the Labor Government at that time. I well remember at that time that those who were prominent in the Labor movement were talking of it then as something that would ensure that Labor would have control of this chamber for many years. 
But it has not succeeded much since. That was really the basis of it. 
-No. We did not fiddle the books. We have been very honest about it. By the process of elimination, on the working of the preferences, we have got the ultimate result. I believe that this system is the best way to get the ultimate decision of the people. We should want a government that represents what the people ultimately would prefer more than anything else. 
There are many other aspects of this Bill. I do not propose to talk much longer because I understand there is a load of legislation to come before the Senate.  Senator Hall  mentioned the matter of State parliamentarians not being able to stand for election to another House. This is something I have never considered to be right. I agree with  Senator Hall.  If a person is a member of a State chamber why should he have to resign from that chamber in order to stand for the Federal Parliament? 1 think that one should have the right to stand for Federal Parliament. I think a member of any parliament should be able to transfer to the Federal Parliament. If a person is a successful candidate at a Federal election he could then submit his resignation to the State House. 
Great play has been made on postal voting and the infringement of the electoral legislation at various elections. But I do not think that members of this Government and their supporters have been altogether lily-white in the practices they have indulged in during various elections. I can recall many malpractices occurring in order to secure votes. In my area of Mackay if it came to awarding a prize to the person who was the fastest racehorse in the malpractices stakes we in the Liberal Party would not be in the race. That puts it very simply and might make honourable senators realise who is the champion in this respect. 
The attitude has been brought forth that we should go through this Bill and amend it.  Senator Hall  at times has indicated that the Government of the day has the right to do this and that in respect of certain aspects under government control. Continuing in that vein, I take the view that it is not the responsibility of the Opposition to take this legislation and knock it into shape for the Government. So far as I am concerned, the quickest way for us to fix this Bill is to throw it out neck and crop. 
In view of the answer to the question asked by  Senator Gietzelt  I ask this question of the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not a fact that the rate of inflation when this Government took over was 4 per cent? Is it not a fact that inflation in this country has not been imported but has been selfcreated? Is it not a fact that unemployment began to grow in this country when the present Labor Government put on a credit squeeze which caused a slack in the building industry in particular and also when the Government cut tariffs, which was a departure from its well established Labor principle of high tariffs to provide work for Australians? 
-This legislation has a very serious aspect about it wherein it proposes to tax the earnings from investments of people who have been thrifty and saved and who have invested their money in various areas. This 10 per cent surcharge has found opposition among a considerable range of people. I have always felt that governments would like people who are thrifty and who savethey are the people who have been cautious and who have guarded themselves and made provision for their future. But this Government seems to be desirous of penalising these people. It is very easy to say that people have money invested so they should be taxed. But much of this investment goes into avenues which give encouragement to others and offer certain opportunities to people. No doubt a good deal of this money from people who have saved has gone into such things as flats and units. The people who are renting those units and flats from the people who invested their money pay a rent to give the investor a reasonable return. But what is happening in this instance is that because of this surcharge the rents will go up. The Government, under pressure from its own back benchers, decided to lift the minimum income upon which this taxation would be based. That sounds very nice. But it still does not protect the wage earner or the salary earner who is renting a flat. It does not protect people who are in the higher bracket of income. If people are to be taxed extra on their earnings from these properties it is human nature that they will pass that tax on to the people who rent the flats and homes from them. Honourable senators should not tell me that this is not being done. I know of girls and women working in offices who are renting flats and homes and the increases have already been passed on to them. Those people are paying - 
The honourable senator does not know much about human nature, apparently. He is a bit behind the times so far as human nature is concerned. 
I do not have any flats. Any money I have will be given away. I will not be one of these avaricious people. Some people have already raised rents in anticipation of this tax. The people whom I know of who are paying these increased rents are girls and women who are not receiving the minimum that is allowed in this legislation. They are ordinary wage and salary earners. The increased tax is being passed on to them. The Government should not kid the people that, by lifting the minimum amount upon which taxes on income earned in this way are paid, it is doing such a great thing. The people who own these flats will pass this tax on. 
It amazes me that a government should look at this sort of tax in order to finance some of its grandiose schemes. This Government has received a bonus in increased tax from the inflationary wages that have been received by people. One would have thought that, with the bonus being so high, the Government would not have been bothered annoying and more or less terrorising people in this way. It goes to show that behind the Government's mind is the thought that it should tax anybody who has been thrifty and owns something. The socialist government looks upon those people as being little capitalists. We well remember the statement of a Labor Minister some years ago that people who had their own homes were little capitalists. Does that type of thinking still dominate this Labor Government? Surely to goodness a government that is worth its salt would recognise that the type of people who are really worthy citizens are those who are thrifty and those who will save and try to do things in the way that many of these people have done with their investments. 
To receive this discouragement by the Government is a shocking state of affairs. It does not say much for the Government's view of people who are thrifty and people who are good citizens of this nation. I look around at the extravagance of this Government and at the things it is doing. It is throwing money here, there and everywhere, not just a few thousand dollars but many thousands of dollars. It makes one wonder just what the Government is trying to do. The Government is squeezing this type of citizen in order to help finance its fanciful objectives. Goodness gracious me, we read about the man who said he is the greatest and now says he is the best, I refer to the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  He is off on a jaunt overseas which will cost some half a million dollars. He says it is because every country wants to see him. The true story would be that those countries would not worry if no Australian Prime Minister ever visited them. 
My friend,  Senator Townley,  reminds me of the extravagance of purchasing 'Blue Poles'. It cost $US2m. The Government has purchased 'Woman V and so on. The fact that some art critic says that the purchase is a good one does not indicate it is good expenditure. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy President, before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was speaking to the Income Tax Bill 1 974. 1 was particularly interested in and expressed myself in relation to that section of the Bill under which people now are to be taxed on their unearned income from investments. In many cases these thrifty people have made these investments in order to provide possibly for their old age or retirement or to ensure that they have sufficient income so as not to be a burden upon the Government. But unfortunately they are not to be rewarded by this Government for their thriftiness. The Government proposes to tax them on their unearned income. I think that this is an indication of a lack of appreciation of these people by the Government. The Government should appreciate these people for what they have done. 
As I have pointed out, it is not just their unearned income that is to be taxed. Increases in rents will be passed on to people who are receiving much lesser income than the people whom the Government exempted from the payment of additional tax on unearned income. Whilst the Government might put on the front that it is exempting people below a certain income from the payment of additional tax on unearned income, other people will be caught in the net. 
With the bonanza which the Government has reaped through taxation from the Australian people because of the effect of inflation on wages, it amazes me that the Government should resort to this paltry extraction of money from thrifty people. One thinks of the way in which the Government has thrown money away, how it has wasted it on all the different things that it has done. It has spent millions of dollars here and millions of dollars there. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been trooping around the world like a glorified tourist at great expense to the Australian people.  His  next trip alone is to cost $500,000. 
That is exactly what I stated earlier. These people will naturally pass on their increased taxation to people on much lower income who are renting their properties. The Government is able to throw money around. One thinks of the way in which it has spent money on so-called works of art and on the glorified trips that the Prime Minister is undertaking. As a matter of fact, after 2 years as Prime Minister he must be now the world 's greatest traveller. In addition, he has a trip to Bermuda coming up, and he is talking about another trip to the Middle East, and so on. Really, he will be known as the world 's greatest traveller. 
-He said that he was the greatest. Now he says that he is the best. There is a competition between the 2 leaders. Now they both say that they are the best. I do not know who is the best. I deplore this type of legislation which imposes upon thrifty people additional taxation which, as  Senator Greenwood  has pointed out, can be passed on to girls, women and young men who are renting flats from people who will have to pay this additional tax. I have noted the amendment moved by the Opposition to this Bill. I am disappointed that the Opposition has not taken a stronger stand in this matter. I believe that the people resent this type of legislation. I believe that they resent this legislation which imposes additional taxation on unearned income, the legislation which introduces the capital gains tax and the legislation which reduces from $400 the taxation allowance for education expenses. Instead of trying to amend this Bill by the amendment which we have moved we should have taken the bull by the horns, should have thrown out this legislation and should have let the people see that we really mean business. It has been stated that we oppose this type of taxation and that when we get back into office we will change the legislation. Of course, that is an airy fairy statement or promise. How do we know when we are going to be back in office? How do we know how long it will be? In the meantime these people will be prejudiced by this taxation. Therefore I think that the strongest and most effective way in which the Opposition could have handled this legislation would have been to throw it out. 
I am of the opinion that people like a government or an opposition that is strong; they like a Prime Minister or a leader whoever he might be to be strong. People will always rally to strength. They will not follow weakness. For instance, I come from an area in north Queensland where we occasionally get cyclones. I am sure that nobody in that area would shelter behind a rickety building in a cyclone. They would want to be in a strong building to make sure that they were safe. So it is with the electors of the Commonwealth and the States. They like strong people and strong parties. I think the Liberal-Country Party Opposition would appear to be more effective in the minds of the people if it showed strength and said to the Government: 'We will throw this out'. 
I know that there are limits on the Senate in altering money Bills. But there is another Bill which could be altered and that is the one which seeks to reduce the taxation allowance for education expenses. The remedy for this Bill is to throw it out completely, and I am sorry that the Opposition has not taken that stand. As I have said, strength gets support from the people. If we show the people that we really mean business by throwing this legislation out, we would get their support. We have a striking example of strength in my own State of Queensland. We have possibly the strongest leader of any government in Australia in the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  Because of his strength he gathers support behind him. He is a strong man and he leads a strong government. I believe that because of that when the election in that State takes place on Saturday the people will give the answer to show that they like strength in leadership and government and I hope that it will also be the answer to this Government. 
-Sir Gordon Chalk is also a very strong leader and would also make a very good Premier. 
I am talking about the status quo. I hope that the result of Saturday's election will be an indication to this Government that the people of Queensland have shown in no uncertain terms what they think about the legislative program and enactments of this Government. This Government has shown itself for what it is in this taxation measure.  Mr Whitlam,  as the leader of this Government, has shown himself to be the greatest somersaulter in the history of this nation; so much so that I would not be a bit surprised if he joined the Russian gymnastic troupe that is coming to Australia. I think that he would make a wonderful somersaulter in that Russian gymnastic troupe. I have put forward my views on this matter. I think that this legislation, particularly as it relates to the aspect with which I have dealt, is very bad. It does not encourage people to be thrifty. It prejudices people who have been thrifty. I think that it is extremely bad legislation. I am sorry that the Opposition has not been stronger and thrown out the legislation. 
-I have spoken earlier in the afternoon on this Bill. There is no question that clause 16 does not find favour with people who have the responsibility and the cost of educating children. One of the aspects I do not think the Government has taken into consideration is that the $400 allowance today, with inflation the way it is, is not worth as much as it was a few years ago. It is wrong to suggest that it should be reduced to $150 in view of the inflationary trend of the last couple of years. I suggest that an allowance of $150 does not have the true worth of that amount a few years ago. I believe that people on this side of the House do not support me in this attitude so I have decided to oppose clause 16 myself. I strongly oppose it because I think the reduction in the allowance is a backward movement on the Government's part. I know that there was considerable dissention and opposition to this clause in the Government's ranks. In those circumstances I oppose the clause. If anybody is prepared to support me I shall call for a division. 

 - Mr Deputy President, do you know that the Press gallery has been almost packed out this morning? Would you say that it was the great national social gossip question concerning a female government employee's flat that brought those people into the Press gallery? In view of the attendance today will you take up with the  President  on his return the question of whether a request should be sent to the owners of the media that whenever legislation of national consequence is being debated in this chamber in  the future they might see that a similar representation is present instead of attending only for gossip questions? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I have no information on the subject on which the honorable senator seeks information from me. I will consider his request concerning an approach to the  President. 
-Of the 4 Bills before the Senate at present I would like to mention firstly the Estate Duty Assessment Bill and to say, in a very brief way, that I am one of those who think that estate duty is something which should not be assessed at all. 
-My estate will not get hit hard because I will not have any left for assessment. I feel that the abolition of estate duty should come about only after consultation between the Commonwealth and the States in which the Commonwealth agrees to make ample provision of finance to enable the States to abolish estate duty. That would then provide the Commonwealth with an opportunity to abolish estate duty in the Commonwealth field. I have held that view for quite a long time and I think it is one that is gaining ground with the people. I think that the sooner estate duty is abolished in both the State and the Federal spheres the better. That is all I desire to say on the matter. That puts my view very clearly. 
The other Bill upon which I wish to speak is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2). I feel that the attitude of the Opposition in this regard is again one that does not have my support. I believe that this Bill gives the Opposition an opportunityunlike the Bill about which we spoke last night, which the Senate would have had to throw out completely- to move for the elimination of sub-clauses (1) and (2) of clause 16 from the Bill. It would be a very simple matter for us to do that. I indicate that at the Committee stage of the debate I intend to offer opposition to this part of the legislation. I hope that somebody else will support me and that we will have a division on the question, thereby showing just where the people stand on this issue. 
Once again we have had the Opposition stating that it is opposed to this provision and saying that when it gets into office again it will repeal it. How ridiculous that is. People will be made to suffer through the loss caused by the reduction in this tax allowance from $400 to $150 over the period of time that it takes certain events to take place before the Opposition again gets back into Government. During that time people will lose the benefit of the higher taxation concession. I know that it is very easy for people in the capital cities and the major cities to treat this matter in an airy-fairy way and say that it is of no great importance. As one of those who live in a provincial city I know what takes place in the provincial towns and country areas in my State of Queensland- no doubt the same takes place in other States as well- when people take the opportunity of sending their children to the major schools which are very often to be found in the capital cities and, in the case of Queensland, mostly in the southern centres. Naturally that entails a considerable amount of expense. The desire of those people is to give their children what they think is a good education. 
I have always felt that the giving of a taxation concession to individuals who send their children to such schools is more in keeping with my line of thinking about keeping the private schools going than the provision of straight out subsidies by the Government, which has never been to my liking. Such individuals are getting a concession because they are trying to give their children a better education. There is no doubt that these expenses are incurred. There is no question that very often the schools to which they send them are much better than the schools they have in their own small communities. In fact, they probably do not have schools up to the same standard in their own areas. When one looks around country centres one can visualise that there is not the opportunity in those areas to give children higher education. Because of the great distances in States like my own that people have to send their children if they are to get such an education and because of the cost of keeping their children at such schools, surely to goodness those people are entitled to some concession for giving their children the opportunity of obtaining a good standard of education. 
It seems rather strange to me that the government of the day has decided to cheesepare with the individual in this regard. It has been pointed out by Bishop Shevill that certain people, such as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Mr Hawke  and others, went to some of these private schools. No doubt they did so, in the opinion of their parents, to get a higher standard of education. It was all right for them because they lived in the areas in which such a standard of education could be obtained but what about the people who do not live in such areas? I feel that the Government has shown itself to be really miserly towards the people from country areas who desire to educate their children to a high standard. These people should be commended and encouraged by the Government because of their desire to give their children a higher education. There is no question that if we could lift the standard of education of people throughout this nation, to get them to think clearer and along better lines, this country would be all the richer and all the better for it. 1 was one who did not have the opportunity of a secondary education having left school at the age of 12 years and 10 months, but I know the value of education. I know that people of their own volition can educate themselves in various ways after leaving school, but there are many people who probably require education in a more compulsory manner, by their parents sending them to the schools which they think are necessary and which they think sometimes are of a higher standard. 
Therefore I think that this Bill is very bad in that regard. There should be a stronger expression about it by people generally and by this Opposition. It really bewilders me that the Opposition adopts this nebulous fashion of moving a motion condemning this Bill instead of opposing it. This was one opportunity for the Opposition to show strength on an important question, but unfortunately the leaders or the people within the organisation decided otherwise. They talk about when they get into office again but that depends upon their political nous. As I said last night, that might happen quickly; it might take a long time. A decision on when one goes to an election is a matter of political judgment. 
I want to refer to what  Senator Hall  said last night. He was not at the particular meeting and would not be aware of the details but he said that no doubt I was one of those who voted for the Government to be forced to an election in May. As a matter of interest, I was not one of those people who considered that an election in May was appropriate. My assessment, based on my judgment and political sense, and it was expressed at that time, was that after another 9 to 12 months- that is from December to Marchwould be a better time to have an election. I thought that we as an Opposition would then walk in and become the Government. As the situation has developed today, I am convinced that the Opposition should have taken a strong stand in connection with the Budget on items such as this and taken the matter to the people. We have the right to force the Government to the people if we believe that the country is being badly managed, as I believe it is, and that things are going contrary to what the people require. If we had an election now, or at any time within the next 2 or 3 months, there is no question that there would be a change of government. 
The financial situation in this country has become serious as a result of the actions of this Government.- There is raging inflation, massive unemployment and the economy is in a real mess. The Government has made certain moves since coming to office which it considered were forward moves but they were backward moves. The Government has backtracked on practically everything it has done in relation to the economic aspects of this country. That shows that its handling of economics is very bad. What staggers me and frightens me is that I read the other day that  Mr Whitlam  is going to take a stronger hand in the control of the economy of this country. That frightens the life out of me because  Mr Whitlam  is a babe in the woods as far as economics are concerned, and that is generally recognised. If he is to take a stronger hand in the running of the economy of this country, it makes one wonder what could happen. I have no faith in him so far as economics are concerned. The situation is serious. The Opposition should have taken the opportunity on this occasion of letting the people again express themselves on how dreadful they think things have become. I am surprised that the Opposition has not seized the opportunity. To deal with legislation such as this and for the Opposition to express itself as being strongly opposed to it and then to move a pious amendment to add words to the end of the motion, is not to act according to my way of thinking. Naturally I will have to support that expression but I want it to be known that when we come to the Committee stage I shall oppose this clause. I hope there will be others who will oppose it also in order that we might have a division to see who really opposes this type of legislation. 
I do not want to delay the Senate. Those are my feelings on this matter. As I have said before, I think that the Government's action in cheeseparing to the disadvantage of worthwhile citizens who send their children to schools in order for them to have a higher standard of education, indicates just how mean it has become in relation to certain very important aspects of the development of this country. 
Further to what has been said in connection with this clause, I should like to say that it is rather interesting to note that it has been suggested that this chamber should not cause an election even if honourable senators feel that way. I take the view- I go back to the constitutional basis of this Senate- that we have the right to review legislation and to amend or reject it. On that basis, under the Constitution I believe that we have the right to amend this clause. It is up to the Government to decide whether it 'ants an election on this question. So . n as I am concerned, I would not hesitate if the Government wanted to have an election because I know what the results would be. I think from my Party's point of view there would be no question but that the Government would go out of office. The responsibility of deciding whether an election will be held lies with the Government. As a senator I take the view that if the Senate feels strongly that something is wrong then it is our responsibility to take action. 
I look upon this question as one which will cause great expense to people to educate their children. It could possibly mean that some of them will have to forgo education that they have in mind for their children. It is very easy for us to say that we will correct the situation when we are in government. We do not know how long it will be before we are in government. We do not know how often opportunities such as this will arise and we do not know whether the Government will want to have an election over them. Therefore, I think we should amend legislation when we can do so. We should not baulk at it. It is a case of whether it is right to do so or whether it is wrong to do so. I think in this case we should stand up to our responsibilities and vote against this clause if we feel that way. 
There has been an indication that because this is a Budget item the Senate should not touch it. I wonder what the Opposition will do when the next Budget comes along. I wonder, if it feels that the occasion warrants the holding of an election, whether it will keep to its present view. I think we have to be consistent in these matters. When I look back to the days when we were in government and the present Government formed the Opposition, it had no hesitation about moving amendments to the Budget. I think it is a matter of being consistent. 
As far as I am concerned, as a senator, we have certain rights. This Senate has constitutional rights. Whether those rights have been acted upon since the creation of the Senate or not does not make any difference. The people who founded the Constitution desired certain actions or gave certain powers. I remember that during the Budget debate last year I was one of those honourable senators who wanted to have an election. I remember the discussion about defeating the Supply Bill. I remember that some honourable senators and some of the members of the other House said that we should not defeat the Bill. The Constitution gave us that power and under the Constitution if the Senate wants to refuse a Supply Bill it has a perfect right to do so. I am upholding the rights of the Senate and the rights of a senator. Consequently, I have no hesitation on opposing this particular clause. 
Despite the unusual questioning in this chamber today I ask the Leader of the Government: Can he remember that there was an election in Queensland on Saturday? Does he also remember that on that occasion the Australian Labor Party was just about decimated? Has he also seen a statement from our conceited, vain, arrogant Prime Minister to the effect that the people of Queensland are apparently living in dark areas, reflecting upon their judgment? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I think  Senator Wood's  remarks were made more in the nature of political comment.  Senator Wood  might moderate his language regarding the Prime Minister and perhaps rephrase his question. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has he seen a statement from the Prime Minister that the people of Queensland live in dark areas, indicating that they cannot think clearly, which is an insult to the people of Queensland? It is not an insult, of course, according to honourable senators on the other side. Will he convey to the Prime Minister the feeling that it is an insult. Will he also convey to the Prime Minister - 
-Would the honourable senator like me to go back to the Morosi matter? Would the Leader of the Government in the Senate also convey to the Prime Minister that the people of Queensland live in stronger, brighter sunshine, which no doubt accounts for the fact that they can think more clearly than other people- hence their decision on Saturday? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and preface it with these remarks: Yesterday I asked him a question about the Prime Minister insulting the intelligence of the people of Queensland as a result of the vote on Saturday. In reply he gave me a long tirade about the gerrymander in Queensland. I ask him now whether he has seen the 'Australian' of yesterday's date in which it was stated: 
For things are even worse than they first appear for the Labor Party in Queensland: Ironically, without the gerrymander, the ALP would almost certainly have won only one or two seats instead of about eleven. 
Has he also seen the comments by  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, and by  Mr Egerton,  the Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party, condemning the Government for its attitude to Queensland and saying that it lacks grass roots appeal and that it is drowning in the think tank in  Mr Whitlam  's office? If so, does he not agree that the people of Queensland were very intelligent in acting as they did? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate following the reply he gave to the Leader of the Opposition. Is it not a fact that for many years the pronounced policy of the Australian Labor Party has been high protection for secondary industry in order to create jobs for people in Australia? Is it not a fact that when  Mr Whitlam  persuaded the Labor Party to cut tariffs unemployment really started, particularly in the clothing industry, as cheap Asian goods were imported because of the lower tariffs, and also in the motor manufacturing industry and other industries? 
Speaking on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  I point out that the proposal embodied in this Bill was submitted to the Australian people by way of referendum not 9 months ago and on that occasion the people of Australia said no. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech pointed out that a whole  3Vi  million people voted for the proposal but a mere 3% million voted against it. The fact that a quarter of a million more people were against the proposal than were in favour of it shows that there is a substantial majority which is against the Government's bringing in this legislation. Indicative of the feeling that the Australian Labor Party has for the more populous States as against the less populous States is that the Minister featured the fact that New South Wales, the most populous State in Australia, supported the proposal when it went to referendum. He also mentioned that it was only narrowly defeated in Victoria and South Australia. Whether it was narrowly defeated or otherwise, the fact is that it was defeated. The Constitution of Australia requires that for a referendum to be passed it must be accepted by the majority of people in the majority of States. To put the matter simply, the Government was defeated in its attempt to implement this legislation. 
There is an arrogance about the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  He hates anything to stop him in the course that he projects for his administration of this Parliament. Of course, we know that he is a man who is very intemperate in his expressions and this indicates his type of thinking. In fact he thinks he is God. I have heard people from his own side of politics, when speaking about him, say: 'Of course, you know, he thinks he can walk on water', meaning that he thinks he is God. That is why he adopts the attitude that everything he thinks should be done must become automatically a fait accompli. Let me give honourable senators an example of the expressions he has used and the way in which he considers anybody who stands in his way. 1 am sure that he must have been very annoyed on the night of the counting of the referendums when he found that the people of Australia did not approve of what he wanted to have pushed through by way of the referendums. As recently as last weekend at the Tasmanian conference of the Australian Labor Party- his own Party- he spoke of Opposition members as being thugs and wreckers, unscrupulous and so on. I am a native of Queensland and of this country, I have been in public life for a long time and I object to people referring to me as a thug. This is far contrary to what I am. I know that honourable senators on this side of the chamber feel the same way about this. 
We know  Mr Whitlam  's record. Whenever he is opposed in anything he always engages in this type of talk. Honourable senators will remember the case involving  Sir Garfield  Barwick, a very fine type of person and now the Chief Justice of Australia. I point out that I do not use this sort.of language, but in the House of Representatives because  Mr Whitlam  was upstaged he called  Sir Garfield  Barwick a bastard. Of course, honourable senators will also remember that when a former Governor-General of Australia was a member of the House of Representatives  Mr Whitlam  threw a glass of water over him in his temper. We find in this legislation brought forward today another example of the arrogance of the Prime Minister who must have everything his way. I know that he thinks he is above everybody else. I well remember him talking to me about the Senate. He hates the Senate. I know what he said about his own Labor Party senators. He told them they were a bunch of loafers. If he could do so, he would destroy the Senate immediately. 
The very basis of this legislation represents another attempt to make the Senate more and more a reflection of the House of Representatives. The Constitution never intended that the Senate should automatically face an election when the House of Representatives faced an election. However, because of certain circumstances, the pattern has developed of the 2 Houses going to an election together but there is nothing in the Constitution to indicate that the 2 Houses must go to an election together. There is no question about it-  Mr Whitlam  's idea of bringing this type of legislation forward is to frighten senators who may vote on some occasion to bring about a double dissolution of the Parliament that their terms of office will expire at the time the House of Representatives faces such an election. If the House of Representatives is brought to an election in a period shorter than the period of 3 years for which it was elected, of what concern is that to the Senate, the constitutional chamber of this Parliament of Australia? It has no relevance whatsoever. Therefore, if some honourable senators have 3 years of their term still to serve under normal circumstances, I cannot see the necessity for legislation to make it mandatory for them to face an election with the members of the House of Representatives, apart from the circumstances which arise in a double dissolution of the Parliament. 
The Prime Minister talks about the cost of holding separate elections. If the Prime Minister is so concerned about saving money for the country, there are lots of ways that I can think of to save much more money then would be saved by following the course suggested in this legislation. It is quite easy for the Prime Minister to throw away millions of dollars but the comparatively low cost involved in holding the extra elections is one of the things that has been peddled to us as a feature of this legislation. I heard of something today that is likely to take place involving the expenditure of $lm or $ 1.5m just like that. This is the way money is thrown away by this Government. To suggest, as has been done in this legislation, that finance is a major consideration in the holding of elections is just a lot of piffle. So far as I am concerned, the Senate was created for a certain purpose. It was created to reflect the views of the States. Despite what people say, I have seen occasions in the Senate when honourable senators from both major Parties have been divided. 
I remember one occasion when the late  Senator McKenna  came into this chamber, looked about and wondered upon which side he was supposed to vote because the Parties were so mixed. On that occasion a vote was being taken on a matter involving the sugar industry. The people of Tasmania, Victoria and a few other States were wanting cheaper sugar. There was quite a mixture of opinion on the matter. The Tasmanian people saw the position in a certain light and most of the Tasmanian senators were voting one way while many senators who belonged to the same Party were voting another way. They were mindful of the sugar interests because the issue affected the people they represented. If a real issue of paramount importance to the States arises, senators generally act in a responsible way according to the interests of their 
States. When something of real moment affecting their States arises, this Senate chamber can still give a decision. The Senate chamber has lifted its position considerably over a period of time. I believe that today it stands in a stronger position in the public's opinion than ever before. The charge has been made that we are wreckers and so on. lt is the right and the responsibility of this Senate chamber to throw out legislation if it feels such a course is necessary. 
It was envisaged in the creation of the Senate that there would be 2 sets of 3 year terms for senators with half the Senate members standing for election every 3 years. In the back of the minds of the writers of the Constitution was the idea that while the membership of the House of Representatives could change at each election, the Senate still carried a reflection of the thought prevailing for 3 years before the election so there would not be a complete change in the outlook of the Senate as there would be in the House of Representatives. When the position is considered in that way, it makes it more clear in my mind that it was in the minds of the writers of the Constitution that there should be sufficient period of time between the election of each half of the Senate so that there could be a carry-over of opinion, not for just 12 months but for 3 years. 
In those circumstances, I think that we should do all we possibly can to preserve the Senate as it is at present, and that the Senate should retain its independence in not going to election always with the House of Representatives. I know that if this legislation were to pass, no doubt on occasions senators would be frightened to exercise their rights in the way they can at the present time. It amazes me that the legislation was introduced again. To me it represents an affront to the people of Australia. They gave a decision on it only 9 months ago yet we find the Government again putting it before the Parliament in the hope that this time it might be passed. If the Prime Minister and members of the ALP believe in the voice of the people, they should remember that a decision was given in regard to this matter. To suggest that a majority of only 250 000 people is not something to be taken as worth while I think is an insult to the people of Australia who voted in this way. This question should be asked: Why was this legislation introduced? Was it to change the constitutional relationship between the 2 Houses of Parliament? Was it to rob the Senate of its independence and the parliamentary system of its meaning? I express my view that this legislation should not be passed. It has been before the Senate previously. It was twice rejected. The people of this country supported the action of the Senate. In those circumstances I cannot see why the Government should be so determined to go against the opinion of this House of Parliament and of the people of Australia. 
The Senate has made its stand in various ways. The government of the day always hates a parliament that turns down its legislation. Even one's own party gets pretty annoyed- I have had experience of this- if one opposes something. As far as I am concerned, people in the Parliament have the right to express themselves and to vote according to their conscience. I have always done that and I shall be expressing my conscience in this way. When my Party was in government there were times when I opposed it strongly on certain questions. I was not elected to this chamber to be a yes man; I was elected to this chamber to speak and to vote according to the way I feel. 
As to what the Senate has done over a period of time, whilst the Government may feel frustrated and  Mr Whitlam  may feel that his grandiose views cannot be fully carried out, he must remember that senators in this chamber were sent here by the people of Australia. They have a right to interpret what the people of Australia wish the Senate to do, because this country is a democracy and is not an autocracy which is run by  Mr Whitlam  for  Mr Whitlam  's views. I believe that the people of this country will realise all the more clearly when this matter is put before them that the Senate is doing a job. The people of this country must be very grateful that the Senate is here as an institution. 
It is quite clear from the expressions of opinion that one hears wherever one goes that this Government is far out of tune with the thinking of the people of Australia. I say quite definitely that if there was an election in this country today this Government would be landslided out of office. In refusing to pass some of the Government's legislation the Senate no doubt is expressing what the people of Australia feel. In rejecting this legislation the Senate is carrying out exactly the wishes of the people of Australia which they expressed when the referendum questions, and this question in particular, were put before them. The Opposition opposes the legislation. We resent the type of language that  Mr Whitlam  has used about us. We are not thugs; nor are we wreckers. We are here to do the best for Australia according to our lights. 
It was not emphasised by you in the context in which I am now using it. That is the point I am making. I continued: 
The Government, on reflection, sees this alternative course as having a number of important advantages. It will provide a more integrated system of courts in Australia, with fewer technicalities and less expense to litigants. The problems of mixed jurisdiction- that is, problems arising from the existence in the one cast of both State and Federal questions- will be avoided. There will be more diversification of jurisdiction of the Supreme Courts, thus giving the Judges of those courts opportunities for experience in new and important jurisdictions. The Government sees its present proposals as an exercise in co-operative Federalism that will benefit both the States and the Commonwealth. 
In that statement I indicated that the Government had taken up with the States the course of investing the State courts with a wide jurisdiction in tax matters and also with investing the State courts with jurisdiction in industrial property matters. The States had indicated their agreement with that approach at the time I made the statement. I recall, and we should all recall, that in 1973 the present Government adopted the proposal of investing the State courts with a tax jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction is now exercised by the State Supreme Court judges, I believe, with benefit to those who appear before the judges and with benefit to the courts themselves. 
Whether the Government is interested in pursuing the matters with regard to industrial property I do not know. It is not an extensive jurisdiction, but it is a jurisdiction which could easily, and I think with benefit, be vested in the State 
Supreme Courts. This statement represented the quite deliberate and considered decision of the previous Government that it would not pursue the concept of a Superior Court and would instead move towards what I regard as the desirable ultimate step- an Australian legal system. I believe that this is the line along which the Government should move. I was interested to hear  Senator Wright  indicate to the Senate today what he had indicated to some of us privately; that this is an area in which he is concerned to present his proposals. I think we would welcome the presentation of his proposals when they are developed. 
I invite the Government to indicate where the support is outside the ideology of the platform of the Australian Labor Party for its current proposal for a Superior Court. It is a fact, as  Senator Everett  mentioned, that in the middle 1 960s the Law Council of Australia and some of the constitutional legal bodies saw merit in the proposal for a Superior Court. He referred to that. He ought to have referred to the present attitude of the legal bodies throughout Australia including the Law Council of Australia. The Law Council of Australia canvassed the opinion of its legal bodies. My understanding is that every one of those bodies which responded, except the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory, was opposed to the concept of a Superior Court. Indeed, even in the Australian Capital Territory, which might be expected to have some particular reasons why it would favour the proposal, there were reservations about the Government's Bill. 
I invite the Minister, if he can, to say where there is support or backing, outside the Government 's own political platform and its own ideology of creating central bodies and a central court, for what is being proposed. I do not believe there is any such support. The overwhelming opinion of those who are interested in this whole question is in favour of the concept which the Opposition advanced of creating an Australian legal system. The work which is to be done in that area, I believe, represents the desirable line of activity for the next few years. I hope we will see a system under which there is one hierarchy of courts, in which the role of the Commonwealth and the States can, by constitutional process, be so geared that the problems which occasionally arise, the delays, the duplication and even the disputes about appointments, can be overcome. 
-Of course it applies to employers as well as to employees, and  Senator Milliner  knows that the provisions of this Bill relating to amalgamations apply to employers as they apply to employees. It is no use engaging in this typical misrepresentation and suggesting that a law applies to one group but does not apply to another group. The purpose of the existing law- and I think it is a matter of credit that the previous Government introduced these laws- is to ensure that the rights of members of trade unions are not overridden by officials who want to enlarge their empires and who seek to do so without regard to what the rank and file membership may think. 
First of all, let me state what are the existing provisions which are to be altered, and in some cases totally removed, as a result of the provisions of this Bill. The existing law provides that a committee of an organisation, either a trade union or an employers organisation, may pass a resolution that an amalgamation may take place. The committee is required by the existing law to forward its proposals for amalgamation, that is, the wishes of the officials of the 2 unions, to the Industrial Registrar for his approval. The Industrial Registrar has to publicise what is proposed and provide facilities whereby anyone who wants to object to that amalgamation may  do  so. There is a provision for a hearing by the Industrial Registrar of any unionist's or employer's objection to the amalgamation scheme which is proposed. If as a result of the hearing of those objections the Industrial Registrar still considers that the scheme is a proper one, then he has to submit the proposed amalgamation to a ballot of the members of the organisation which  is  amalgamating and to a ballot of the members of the organisation with which the amalgamation is to take place. The provisions require specifically that the amalgamation ballots are to be conducted as secret ballots. They are to be conducted by the electoral officer to prevent any of the hanky  panky which so often occurs in union ballots. Finally, they are to be conducted by postal voting. In short, we have the traditional official conduct of ballots which has been part of the law of this country for the last 25 years since the Menzies Government introduced officially conducted ballots to overcome some of the more obnoxious abuses which had been occurring prior to that time. 
At the time that the ballot is to be conducted there are various safeguards or facilitatory procedures which are to be followed which are designed to ensure that people know what they are voting about. Copies of the amalgamation scheme are to be enclosed with the ballot paper. Arguments for and against the amalgamation, prepared by the various factions in the union or the employer organisations voting for or against the scheme, are to be included. Because it seems advantageous, there is also provision for an order to be made by the court that if there is a very large organisation with which a smaller organisation is amalgamating then the provisions for there to be a ballot of the members of the larger organisation need not be complied with in the manner in which they would ordinarily apply. They are reasonable provisions. Why should they be altered to permit ballots of the type which I have criticised being able to take place? 
One of the provisions of the existing law is that no ballot for amalgamation, if it takes place in the way I have just outlined, will be an effective ballot unless 50 per cent of the members of the organisation vote. If 50 per cent of the members of the organisation vote, at least 50. 1 per cent of the members who have voted must vote in favour. Theoretically, one could still have an amalgamation even though 75 per cent of the membership of the organisation was opposed to it. I say theoretically because it is merely taking the arithmetical results which would flow from an exact 50 per cent voting. The 50 per cent who did not vote could be regarded as opposed to it and 24.9 per cent of those who actually did vote could be opposed to it and there would therefore be a theoretical 75 per cent opposed to it. It is quite unreal to say that the provisions are unfair. I know the argument is put that you are not likely to get 50 per cent of union members voting and therefore it is unreasonable to require that percentage. But it ought not to be forgotten that what is involved here is the amalgamation of 2 organisations- the cessation of existence of one organisation and the creation of a new organisation. It is only right that in those areas what takes place should take place with membership concurrence, and that is the essential basic purpose for which these provisions have been inserted. 
Now, what is happening under the Bill and why is it that the Opposition will oppose this Bill and will continue to oppose it, no matter how many times the Government brings it forward? We will oppose it because the new provisions are in essence undemocratic and would permit all sorts of activities, skullduggery and other improper devices to take place. In the first place the Bill provides that there is no need to have an officially conducted ballot. If you can get a certain proportion of the membership interested to ask for such a ballot then it may take place, but there is no obligation to have an official ballot. Why? No reason is given why there should not be an officially conducted ballot. All that is required under the legislation is that the union ballot should take place in accordance with union rules. There is another provision which I think is highly objectionable because it can result in the wishes of the membership being overborne. It provides for one-fifth of the members of an organisation being able to ask for a ballot where their own committee charged with the management of their affairs has declined to take any action to promote an amalgamation which happens to be sought by a larger organisation. In other words, the committee of the union has decided that it does not want to amalgamate in the way for which a small section of the union has been agitating, and one would suppose that the committee decision ought to prevail because, if the committee members have not the confidence of their union rank and file, there is a periodic election at which that policy can be changed. 
But that is not what this Bill provides. It provides, without adequate justification being put forward, for the wishes of the committee of the union to be overborne by a situation in which a right is granted to a small section of the union. The roll of voters under the new provisions would comprise financial members of the organisation. But, infortunately, what is a ' financial member' of the organisation is not defined. That, of course, is a new provision which seeks to remove the statutory definition of 'financial members' that is presently contained in the existing amalgamation provisions. Of course, if there is no definition of what is a financial member the way is open for abuse. 
There is no requirement under the provisions of this Bill for notice to be given of the fact that a ballot is to be held. The present provision relating to the giving of 3 months notice in a gazette will simply disappear. Even the request of 250 members that a ballot be officially conducted must be made within one month from the date of the direction which is given by the Registrar under the proposed section 158k. Yet how is anyone to know that a ballot is to be held? There is no requirement for the Industrial Registrar's decision to be published or advertised anywhere for the benefit of the rank and file membership. Moreover the new provisions provide for an amalgamation to be taken as having been approved if in the ballot or each of the ballots, if there is more than one ballot, more than one half of the members who recorded formal votes are in favour of the amalgamation. There is to be no quorum whatsoever, no basic minimum number of members of the organisation who are required to vote. Why should an amalgamation take place if, in circumstances in which few members know of the fact that a ballot is to take place, there might be one per cent to 3 per cent of the union voting and it is the majority view of that one per cent to 3 per cent which constitutes the ultimate decision? That is not as good a provision as the provision contained in the existing legislation. The Opposition therefore will not support that provision. 
The argument has been raised that in some way this Bill will reduce the number of demarcation disputes and that if, by the devices which this Bill will permit, amalgamations can take place there will be fewer demarcation disputes. Amalgamations of themselves do not solve demarcation disputes. It is one of the myths of trade union agitation in support of legislation of this character to suggest that demarcation disputes will be resolved by amalgamations. 
The basic point which characterises the Opposition's attitude to this Bill is that we have in the existing law provisions which are designed to protect the rights of members and to ensure that amalgamations which take place do take place only in circumstances in which the rights of members are not over-ridden. We believe in the conducting of a secret ballot by the Electoral Officer. We do not believe in a system in which the ballots can be conducted by the unions themselves. It is believed by the Government that that will facilitate amalgamations. It is a facilitating of the amalgamation procedures against which the Opposition has set itself and will also set itself because the Opposition stands for secrecy and fairness in union matters. 
There is no inconsistency in the Opposition's attitude between what it said when debating the previous Bill and what it said when debating this Bill. The point I made and the point I make now is simply that to intrude into this Bill as one of the matters which a commissioner has to be satisfied about the need to be satisfied whether an agreement is satisfactory to the rank and file majority is imposing an impossible standard. It is more likely to lead to a bypassing of the Commission and not an upholding of the Commission. There is no suggestion whatsoever that the committee of a union should be able to ignore the wishes of the rank and file. We would certainly say that the rank and file ought to be able to govern the committee in the way in which it conducts the affairs of the union, but to impose a requirement for the rank and file to be consulted in the way that this Bill does is not to uphold the authority of the Commission and is likely to create an unworkable situation. That was the theme of the Opposition's approach. 

 Senator BISHOP (South AustraliaPostmasterGeneral) I seek leave to respond quickly to  Senator Greenwood  's remarks. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Science: In view of claims that stronger warnings should have been given to the people of Darwin, will he take up a request with the Minister for Science that warnings of the speed of cyclones should be expressed in miles as well as in kilometres and that warnings of flood dangers should be expressed in feet and inches so that the many people who do not understand the metric system will gain from the warnings a truer impression of the danger of such cyclones and floods? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the International Air Transport Association and the ACTU Leisure Club, in association with the ACTU New World Travel agency, have to connive in order to breach the instructions of the Federal Department of Transport to all travel agents that they must not advertise, quote or sell international air tickets for less than the cost approved by the Australian Government? Will the Minister investigate why the mostly foreign controlled International Air Transport Association and the ACTU travel agency are able to break Government decisions and all other travel agencies are compelled to comply with the Government's instructions? 
I second the motion,  Mr Deputy President.  I listened with very great interest to the address which  Senator Wright  gave to this House. This is, of course, a subject which naturally brings about protests when decisions like this are made. I feel that the matter that  Senator Wright  has put before the chamber is of very deep and great concern to those of us who truly think on a national basis. Upon reading this morning's newspapers, which  Senator Wright  quoted today- not that I am influenced by what journalists write in this regard- what impressed me was the fact that this proposed increase has influenced a number of organisations and unions to say that now is the time to trigger off another round of inflationary wage increase applications. This is, as  Senator Wright  has put forward, a very serious time in the economy of this country. I believe that we have reached a national crisis stage. Therefore it is up to those of us who feel some responsibility to show that responsibility in relation to this matter. 
As  Senator Wright  pointed out, we decided last July not to accept the then recommended increases. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke on that matter at the time. Eventually the majority of the senators agreed not to accept the increases. What disappointed me was that to my knowledge the Prime Minister never referred to and used the example set by the parliamentarians in trying to impress upon others that they should not push the wage rises that they were then seeking. I think that he failed miserably in not using that as an example to the people. I felt that we may have made a mistake and that on this occasion we should accept the recommended increases because of the fact that no usage was made of that example. But on thinking this matter over, particularly after listening to the seriousness of the situation as put forward by  Senator Wright  in his very fine argument, I feel that from the point of view of national conscience we should not go ahead and accept these increases at this moment. I have therefore taken this opportunity to say in a short speech that I was impressed by the arguments put forward by  Senator Wright  and that it was under those circumstances that I seconded the motion. 
The amendment to clause 10 now reads: 
Leave out all words after 'shall', insert, 'except as otherwise provided by this Act or the Defence Services Homes Act 1 9 1 8- 1 975, comply with all laws of the States and Territories in which it operates '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was he purposefully avoiding giving information to the Senate last Thursday when he declined to answer my question as to the Government's knowledge of the number of North Vietnamese divisions in South Vietnam? Is it not a fact, as indicated by the  President  of the United States, that there are at least 18 North Vietnamese divisions in South Vietnam? How long has the Minister been aware of this fact? Was he aware of it last Thursday? As the presence of these divisions in South Vietnam is clearly in breach of the Paris agreements, why has the Government not protested to North Vietnam? 
-This legislation should be looked at from the point of view of the elector. We should examine the best way in which an elector may record his vote. By doing this the ultimate wishes of the voters can be achieved by the election of a Parliament which the people desire. For this reason every opportunity should be given to the electors to express their views by their vote. I do not think it should be our desire to bring about changes which in any way restrict the voter in expressing his view. Also, in respect of those people who wish to stand for Parliament, no obstacles should be put in their way. 
I am concerned with various aspects of this legislation. One aspect with which I am concerned is the proposal to increase deposits for candidates who desire to stand for Parliament. A deposit for a candidate in a House of Representatives election is to be increased from $100 to $250. The deposit for a Senate candidate, under this legislation, will rise from $200 to $1,000. Why has this amount been increased? Surely the increase is not to compensate the Government for the printing of ballot papers and other costs which are incurred by the Government. The only reason I can see for the increase is that it will be a deterrent to people nominating frivolously for Parliament. I can see no other reason. Difficulties should not be put in the way of people nominating for Parliament. People who want to stand for Parliament should have the right to do so. Money should not prevent a candidate from standing for Parliament. It is quite easy for those of us who are in the Parliament and for people who are more blessed with wordly goods to say that $ 1 ,000 is not much. That is a lot of money to some people. 
Consider an organisation which wants to nominate a team of candidates, perhaps for the Senate. In the case of a double dissolution, a team of perhaps 10 members on the basis of a deposit of $1,000 a candidate will cost that organisation $10,000. There may be some organisation which is new to the political field. There may be people who have ideals which are the true ideals of the Australian people. Those organisations might not have very much money and $10,000 deducted from the amount they have for campaigning could be a serious detriment to them. In those circumstances, I do not think it is right that we should be increasing the deposits of candidates to that extent. We may well stop people coming forward and standing for Parliament. We have the accepted parties in this Commonwealth, but there is nothing to stop a new party coming in with good ideals which perhaps might appeal to the people generally. Therefore, I do not think we should be putting anything in the way of people standing for Parliament. There may be a person of good repute, well regarded by the people who has good ideas to put to the people of Australia. He may nominate as an independent candidate. Why should he be hamstrung by having to make a pretty hefty deposit to nominate as a candidate for the Senate or House of Representatives? I think it is a trivial matter and we should not be asking people to pay these deposits. I think we would be taking a much bigger democratic view if we made it easier for people to stand for Parliament. What does it matter if there are a few candidates standing for Parliament? Surely to goodness with all the processes available to us there should be ample opportunity for people to be able to sift out which candidates they want to vote for. 
Speaking of the candidates, I notice in the Bill the proposed restrictions on the amount of money that candidates and parties can spend on campaigns. My view is that if people have sufficient funds with which to campaign properly severe restrictions should not be imposed upon them. In these days it is costly to campaign. We have different avenues of putting forward propaganda to what existed years ago. It is not so very many years ago in my first campaign days and for many years before that when I was out campaigning for candidates that one of the main avenues of reaching the people was to hold meetings in the street. That, of course, was a much cheaper form of campaign than through radio, the Press and particularly television, As a consequence the cost of campaigning has changed immeasurably. I think that most honourable senators would agree that if a person got up on a street corner and talked today he would be talking only to air. That would be just a waste of time. Not only that, he would be thought by most people to be a little bit gone in the top. 
However, I think that we should be realistic about this matter. This very strict limitation on what people may spend when standing for a parliamentary seat is too often something that comes about from fear of big business, big money, graft or corruption or something like that with people paying in money. Generally speaking people have a way of sifting out candidates and teams and the people are not lulled in the main so easily as so many parliamentarians think. Therefore I believe that not only should the deposits required to be made by candidates not be increased as is proposed in this Bill but also the restrictions on the amount of money being spent on campaign expenses should be something that should be looked at more realistically, especially if one thinks of the great cost of campaigning in the various forms and avenues available at the present time for putting forward propaganda. 
There has also been mention of the proposed change in polling hours from 8 o'clock in the morning until 8 o'clock at night to 8 o'clock in the morning until 6 o'clock in the afternoon. I have worked at polling booths for many years and probably for a longer period than most honourable senators, having started pretty well before I had the right to vote. I have heard statements to the effect: 'Why is the booth open till 8 o'clock? Why cannot it be closed at 6 o'clock?' I suppose one could say: 'Why cannot booths be closed at 5 o'clock, 4 o'clock or some other time?' or 'Why not have half a day for polling?' There are reasons why booths are open to 8 o 'clock in a Federal poll. There are people in certain types of business such as dairy farmers who come in to vote later in the day. These men have to get ready to go to the poll, particularly the southern dairy farmers. This aspect has often been mentioned to me. There are other people who for other reasons cannot come out before the sun sets. If I recall correctly, there are people belonging to 2 religious beliefs- the Jewish and the Seventh Day Adventists- who have difficulties in this regard. I know it is very easy to say: Let them have a postal vote'. But we are a democracy catering for everybody and everybody should have an equal opportunity of recording their vote as do the great bulk of the people- by going along to a polling booth and recording their votes. Why should people who are Seventh Day Adventists or Jewish have difficulties put in their way? Why should they have to go through the process and to the trouble of making a postal vote because sunset interferes with their coming out say before 6 o'clock in the evening? 
I think we should cater for everybody possible and get them to vote on polling day if they are available without putting them to extra trouble. Why should they be discriminated against? They are being discriminated against because of their religious beliefs? We, as a democracy, should have our polling booths open for a sufficient time to give everybody a chance to vote on that day as the great majority of the people in Australia are able so to do. To me this is something that should be looked at by the Government. The Government should take a broader view and a more sympathetic view of these people. I know it is quite easy to say we should cut down the hours for voting but, when all is said and done, as a democracy our aims should be to get every vote possible and therefore whilst it might take a couple of hours longer than some people want I think that in the main the extra votes that come in really suit the true democratic purpose of this country. Therefore I would recommend to the Government that it should take another view of the polling hours for the people of this country. 
As to preferential voting, here again I know that it is very easy to say: 'Why force people to give preference votes?' We are a democracy trying to sift out and find out what is the final thinking and decision of the people of this country so far as the elections for the Parliament is concerned. I believe the preferential voting system is the way to get the ultimate decision of the people. The people vote. Some people want SoandSo as No. 1; others want somebody as No. 2; and still others want somebody else as No. 3, and so on. If people cannot get the man or woman they want to be elected, under the preferential voting system they have the opportunity to sit down and to say: 'If I cannot have this person I will have that person. But if I cannot have that person I will have somebody else.' To me the preferential voting system is absolute perfection in sifting out, in the ultimate, what the people really want. They have their alternatives. If they cannot have this candidate, they will have this one or the next one. The preferential voting system has, I believe, served this country very well. In my own State of Queensland I remember that some years ago the Labor Party of the day abolished preferential voting for a specific purpose. It was not altogether the highest minded motive it did it for. Of course there was preferential voting in Queensland too which, if I recall correctly, did not always serve very satisfactorily. However today the State of Queensland is back to preferential voting, the system by which members for both Houses of this Parliament are at present elected. I cannot see anything wrong with the process. Whilst it might take longer, what do a few days matter in arriving at the ultimate decision of the people of this country? I point out to you  Mr Acting Deputy President  that your own Party, the Labor Party, as was pointed out by the Leader of our Party, does not have simple first past the post voting when it is electing officers and people for positions within the Party. There is an exhaustive ballot so that eventually you arrive at the ultimate decision of your Party. I think the same applies to the people of this country. They should have a similar right. If it is good enough for your Party; it is good enough, I believe, for the people of this country to go to the ultimate in finding out in an exhaustive way which Party they really want as the government. 
I think the preferential voting system is a good one. It has served, particularly in this Senate chamber, very well. I know that the last double dissolution Senate election vote in New South Wales is being used to frighten and to suggest to the people that there should be a change. That, of course, was something phenomenal. It has not happened, in the main, throughout the years of this Parliament. I think that what we have to be guided by is what has been the general run of the situation with the election of senators and members of the House of Representatives. Over a period of time I think honourable senators will find that the preferential voting system has not been of any great detriment to this Parliament. I believe that it has in the ultimate given us the decision that the people want. 
Informal votes will occur at any time. Even with the simplest of voting there will be people who will vote informally. Unfortunately there are some people who vote informally purposely. Others make mistakes. Very often some people do not take sufficient interest in an election for the Parliament of this country. In a democracy a very precious privilege is for the people to vote and to elect the Party they want as the government. It is a privilege that lots of people in Communist countries do not have and therefore it is a precious privilege which everybody should appreciate. They should acquaint themselves sufficiently with what is needed in the elections for the Parliament of this country. Whether the system is a straight-out first past the post system, whether it is an optional preference system or whether it is a compulsory preference system, informal votes will still be cast. 
The Bill seeks to amend also the system of postal voting. At present postal votes must be received within 10 days after the close of the poll. The Bill proposes that they must be received not later than the close of the poll. There are difficulties in this respect. In Parliament it is all very well to speak of people as if they were perfect, as if they knew the laws of the country and all the requirements of voters and so on. Those who have worked at a polling booth on election day have probably found people, both from interstate and from their home State, who arrive and want to vote. If they are in their home State they can get an absentee vote. If they are from interstate they must get a postal vote. 
There is not a divisional officer at each booth. One goes to great trouble to get these people a vote. The only thing that some of these people can do is get a postal vote. On a Saturday they cannot get a postal vote. It is all very well to say that they should know. All of us should know a lot of these things, but unfortunately we do not. Lots of other people who are probably not as well versed in voting procedures as we might be cannot get a vote on election day. The Government is depriving these people of a postal vote because it seeks to alter the law so that applications for a postal vote must be received by a certain time. One might say that people ought to do this and that they should know. Of course they should. Of course they should do these things. 
Democracy is a slow, lumbering process but, with all its faults, it is the best system so far as freedom and opportunity of the people are concerned. I think we must recognise that it is a slow lumbering process and that the people in a democracy are not perfectionists so far as voting is concerned. Therefore we should cast the net widely and make the voting system elastic so that notwithstanding the faults of the voters we get as many votes as possible, and that when the election result is announced it is what the people of the country really intend- a government of their choice elected to govern this country for the following 3 years. In those circumstances I think we should stretch the law in every way possible to get the greatest possible number of voters. I know that it has been said that under the postal voting system it takes so many days to get a result. I heard  Senator Devitt  say that we are the only country which still has such a system. Sometimes we should perhaps express with pride and satisfaction that we are the only democratic country which gives its people the truly democratic right, privilege and opportunity to express themselves by vote. The fact that other countries are not so free and are not so helpful in getting the ultimate in voting is no reason we should be more exclusive so far as the number of voters is concerned. Therefore I think that these clauses of the Bill have some detriments. 
I am greatly concerned that people who want to stand for Parliament and organisations which have ideals and aims could under this legislation now have to find much greater amounts as deposits. I am concerned also at the suggested change of hours for polling. That change is not for the best. To my way of thinking, optional preferences do not give the' ultimate decision so far as the people are concerned. It is proposed to restrict postal voting. People will turn up on voting day and want to vote. If they cannot get an absentee vote, their votes are lost. Therefore we are restricting the vote of the people. I think this legislation must be looked at purely from the point of view of the people. We must get the most votes possible. To get the correct decision for the government of the country for the ensuing term we should make the recording of votes as easy as possible. I bring forward those matters purely from the point of view of getting the best possible system of voting for the people of this country. 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Hall.  I have always felt that it was a very stringent requirement on a person belonging to a State parliament desiring to stand for federal parliament that he must resign his seat. I think that a man in public life such as that, because he decides to try to move to the federal sphere, has to pay a very big penalty, because if he does not win the seat he stands for in the Federal Parliament it means that he has probably lost his seat in the State House. I think that is a very big price to pay for a person who is trying to serve his country through the parliamentary system. I feel that something should be done whereby a State member standing for the Federal Parliament should be able to retain his seat until he knows the result of the Federal election. There is probably no likehood that federal members would want to move down to a State, but there could be a similar situation operating in that regard, and I think a similar arrangement should stand. I do not wish to put forward a great deal of argument, but this is a matter about which I have felt very strongly for many years. Difficulties have been raised about the receipt of 2 salaries. If  Senator Hall's  amendment were accepted there would be no reason why very quickly the necessary legislation could not be inserted into this Bill to make sure that everything be of a watertight character and that people would be receiving a salary and allowances from only the one parliament to which they had been elected. The same position applies to public servants. I think it is unfair to ask anyone to resign a position to stand for Parliament. We should recognise that Parliament is the focal point of democracy. As I said in my speech on this Bill earlier tonight, we should make it as easy as possible for people to stand for Parliament and to serve democracy through the Parliament. In those circumstances I think we should make it easy for people to move from one public sphere to another. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by  Senator Hall. 
There is one aspect with which I should have dealt previously, and it is that local government was the original form of government. There are 3 forms of government in Australialocal government, State government and Federal government. People serving in local government do not have to resign their positions in local government to contest State or Federal elections. You,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  know that because you have been in local government. I know that today in local government certain people are eligible to receive quite considerable sums in aldermanic or mayoral fees. During the last Federal election the Lord Mayor of Brisbane was a candidate for a Queensland seat. He was not successful, but the position is that he did not have to resign his Lord Mayoralty in order to contest a Queensland seat in the Federal election. This situation applies throughout Australia. I think that that is a case in point. 
As I have said, local government is the form of government from which all types of government in this democracy started. But we find that people in local government do not have to resign their positions in local government in order to contest State or Federal elections. Why should there be any difference with people moving from the State to the Federal sphere? That is an angle which should be considered. The same treatment should be meted out to people engaged in all 3 forms of government. 
-I went to Tasmania to interview him. His name was Wechsler. He had been a member of the Socialist Youth Alliance and the Socialist Workers League, and he assured me- and I believe him- that he had also been a member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation reporting to that organisation on the activities of these bodies. 
There was no manufacturing. I still retain the tapes of the information which he gave to me and if anyone in responsible positions desires to listen to those tapes they are available. 
-Last week I spoke about the hours for which polling booths should remain open. It is a very easy matter to speak about shortening the hours in which people may vote. As  Senator Milliner  said, in Queensland we do have 6 o'clock closing for State polls. In Queensland we do not have a very large Jewish population. I think that is a fair statement. Is that correct? 
The aim of a government is to get as many people to vote as is possible and to make it as easy as possible for those people to vote. I think that in doing that the principle that should be adopted is that no section of the community is put at a disadvantage. It is very easy for those of us who can turn out to vote at any time on polling day to say in respect of those people who cannot do so: 'Let them get a postal vote'. To get a postal vote is more difficult and more troublesome than just to go along and record one's vote. In a democracy eveybody should have an equal right. Because of the special circumstances that attach to Seventh Day Adventists, the Jewish people and others who are not able, because of their religious beliefs, to go out at certain times, that is, before sunset, those people have to be considered. As a consequence of my speech on this subject last week a letter arrived in my office today from a Seventh Day Adventist who heard my speech being broadcast. He said: 'You are quite right. Why should I and other people in the Seventh Day Adventist Church be put at greater inconvenience than any other Australian?' 
Polling hours should be laid down so as to give everybody an equal opportunity. I do not think it is right for the rest of us to close off polling at a certain time. We should not say: 'Do not worry about the Jewish people and the Seventh Day Adventists. Let them get a postal vote. ' It is not a matter of disfranchising them; it is a matter of making it an inconvenience. In this democracy, everybody should have an equal right in the recording of votes. If people have other reasons for wanting to cast a postal vote that is their business, but in the normal course of events everybody should have an equal opportunity. 
So far as polling booth hours are concerned, it has been suggested that booths could be opened later in the day. I would say that one of the reasons for opening polling booths so early in the morning, that is at 8 o'clock, is to enable employees who are on their way to work to vote. That is a convenience that was created, I believe for the employed members of the community. If a convenience operates for those people at that time of the day there should be an opportunity at the other end of the day for people who cannot go to the polling booth before sunset. 
In regard to people working at booths throughout the day, I must say I was very touched by the comments of my fellow Queenslander,  Senator Milliner.  He talked about the long hours that are worked. I suppose I have worked outside polling booths for as long as, if not longer than, anybody else in this chamber and I have worked from 8 o'clock in the morning until 8 o'clock at night handing out how to vote cards. 
I stand there. Not only that, but we do not find difficulty in getting workers to work for a good Party like the Liberal Party and the Country Party. We work from 8 o'clock in the morning until 8 o'clock in the evening and if necessary there are people there to act as scrutineers too. Although polling booths for Federal elections are open 2 hours longer than they are for State elections I have not heard any great moaning amongst the workers at the polling booths or heard them asking for the polling booths to be closed at 6 o'clock. 
I am there and I have not missed an election for a long, long time. There has been a lot of weeping about the terrible amount of work to be done on election day but 1 have never heard any great moans and groans amongst the people who work at polling booths. To me the paramount thing is that in this democracy every citizen should have the right to vote in the same way as anybody else. It is not for me, it is not for honourable senators opposite or for anybody else who can go to a polling booth between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. to say that other people should be forced to cast a postal vote because they cannot attend until just before 8 p.m. I believe that in fairness everybody should be an equal chance to vote in the same way at the voting table. It is not for us to say that some section of the community, because of their religious beliefs and because they are a minority, should be made to vote in a different way to the rest of the community. 
If the Jewish people and the Seventh Day Adventist people comprised half the population of this country and they objected to the present proposal- bear in mind that the  President  of the Seventh Day Adventist organisation has sent a telegram to  Senator Baume  and I received from a person in Western Australia a letter saying that he approved of what I said and wanting to know why his people should be put to this inconveniencethe Labor Government of this country would not be game to change the polling hours. But because these people are a minority group this Government thinks that it does not matter. As far as 1 am concerned everybody in this democracy counts the same and they have the same rights. In those circumstances I think that we should leave the voting hours at 8 o 'clock in the morning until 8 o'clock in the evening. 
-1 address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and ask whether he will confirm that the Government has decided to close down the Australian Trade Commission Office in Capetown, South Africa. If so, does the Government propose to justify this measure as a reduction in government spending. If not, will the Minister explain what benefit will flow to Australia from closing down a trade commission office in a country with which we have expanding trade relations? 
I speak to this motion because of some of the sentiments which have been expressed by  Senator Bunton.  I have listened to this debate. Some honourable senators have gone over ground that has nothing to do with the motion that is before the Senate. There has been a lot of talk about the war in Vietnam, the history of the war, the rights and the wrongs of the war, and so on. That is not the point at issue at all. Tonight we are discussing a motion which states that the Senate has been misled by untruthful statements concerning communications with the governments of South Vietnam and North Vietnam. Anyone who reads English in a simple way must agree that there is a difference between the 2 communications under discussion. One really amounted to an admonition of South Vietnam for taking actions to defend itself. The other quite plainly indicated to North Vietnam that the Prime Minister of this country realised that there was some occasion for the North Vietnamese to be attacking South Vietnam and he made excuses for the North Vietnamese. There is no doubt that the North Vietnamese had frustrations. One of the frustrations was that they, the North Vietnamese, the Communist group were breaking the Paris Agreements. 
The position is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  have misled this Parliament. I believe that the misleading of Parliament is a very serious matter. It is not a Party matter; it is a parliamentary matter. During the time that I have been a member of this chamber- I challenge  Senator Bunton  or anyone else to deny it- I have always stood for the rights of the Parliament first. So far as the independence of individuals is concerned, we on this side of the chamber have the freedom of our own conscience in voting. During the period that my Party was the Government of this country I voted against my Party whenever I felt that its legislation was not correct. There is no misstatement about that; it is a fact. To me Parliament is the focal point of democracy. The Parliament should be conducted on the highest possible basis as the focal point of this democratic country. It is a misleading of this Parliament for the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say that the 2 communications were identical, or words to that effect. So far as I am concerned, whether it is the present Government or my own Party that misleads this Parliament I will always vote on these matters according to my conscience. 
I am not talking about the issue of Vietnam.  Senator McLaren  was not a member of this chamber at the time. If he had taken note of the mood of the people of this country he would have realised that they were behind the Government of the day because of the fear in their minds of the march of communism. 
It was not generated by the Liberal Party. It was the feeling at the time. It could happen again. There is a feeling growing in the community today. There was a demonstration in Melbourne which showed that the people are concerned about this issue. That is beside the point. In my committee work and in my work in this Parliament I have always stood for Parliament being above Party. I will always stand for that principle. I will not have anybody in this Parliament say that my vote on this issue is a vote on Party lines. I will vote for the motion because I believe that this House of Parliament was misled. I remember when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quite upstaged about the issue. In those circumstances, I shall vote for the motion. 
-To my mind this is a very dangerous piece of legislation. I believe that we would be far better off without it. Unfortunately our governments have developed the view that we must have legislation for everything. In other words, they would like to put us in a straitjacket of legislation so that we could hardly move without offending it in some respect. I believe that we on this side would have been better placed if we had been strong and determined about this legislation and had thrown it out. Unfortunately there is often in public men a timidity that they may offend someone, may lose some votes here or may do something else, but so far as I am concerned it is a case of making a decision on whether it is right or wrong. 
I believe that the introduction of legislation such as this will divide the country in many aspects and will cause a good deal of trouble. Can honourable senators imagine what is going to take place when somebody is accused of having done something or of having expressed something in what might be termed an antiracial way? Who does it develop upon to prove that that person did not do it? The accused has to prove that he or she did not do that act or say those words. This puts on the average citizen of this country a load which is very serious and which could be very costly. 
Sentor WOOD-According to this Bill if somebody says that a person offends, it is for that person to prove that he did not do it. There is no question about that. We run into hysterics when dealing with some of these aspects, particularly in relation to racism. I almost wept when I heard  Senator Gietzelt  talking about the great difficulty that some people have as a result of racism and so on. He even made a snide attack on the Good Neighbour Councils which do a remarkably good job for migrants. He implied that they mostly looked after people who could talk English. 
Let us get down to basic thinking on these things. We are all human beings. Who does the honourable senator, or I, or anybody else prefer to talk to? Do we prefer to talk with someone with whom we can communicate, or with someone we cannot understand? It is one of those human differences which is very hard to overcome. I recall from my days in local government saying to migrants at naturalisation ceremonies that they should learn the language of this country so that they could talk to people. I told them that if they could talk to people they could communicate and become citizens. 
I do not speak Aboriginal. The point is that the language of this country today is English. Under our educational system the Aborigines are being taught English and there should be no great difficulty on the part of Aborigines or people who come to this country if they learn our language. Nobody can argue against that point of view. If you can talk to people or talk with them and you can understand each other you get on better. It is very difficult if you cannot understand each other. The honourable senator should try it. Then he would find out how quickly his enthusiasm for talking to another person will wear out. 
I think we have to consider the human aspects of these things.  Senator Gietzelt,  in that tear jerking speech he made, talked about what some people have gone through, saying that some people are called poms, some people are called wogs and some are called something else.  Senator Button  mentioned a letter written by an English migrant which was published recently. I also saw a letter from an English migrant who said in a very sensible way that when people called her a pommy she treated it in a jocular fashion. The outcome depends upon one's outlook- how these things are said and how they are accepted. One English migrant wrote to a newspaper about the British anti-discrimination Bill and indicated the great disturbance and divisions it had caused in that country. I think that this type of Bill now before us is going to do exactly that in this country. Why do we need this Bill? Has there been a great swell of feeling, a revulsion, in this country against people who discriminate against migrants, against people of a different colour, or in other ways? 
As honourable senators know, I come from the northern city of Mackay which is the largest sugar-producing centre in Australia. In that area we have quite a number of Italian and Maltese migrants. They mix with the rest of the people and we mix with them and I would say those people are accepted wherever they go in the community. Over a period of time many of them have become quite wealthy citizens of the community as a result of their activities in the sugar industry. I have not found any great discrimination against people like that. Naturally people of different nationalities have a tendency to move more with each other, with people from their own countries, but to a very great extent the migrants in the Mackay area mix with the basic Australian community. In the Mackay area we also have a South Sea Island population who are a relic of the day when coloured people, the Kanaka people, were brought to the sugar industry because people had the idea that white people could not do hard labour in the tropics and live. That has been shown to be a fallacy because probably the people in that area are the healthiest people in Australia. That area has the best climate in this country. 
I refer to the people in north Queensland. I am quite sure that the South Sea Island people are well regarded. There are some that I call friends. They speak to me in a friendly way. Only last weekend there was a conference of South Sea Island people in my city of Mackay. I met a lady from Sydney who probably spoke the most beautiful English I have heard and who was interested in the history of the place and the buildings. We talked with and tried to help that person. I found her to be a charming woman to talk to because she could speak the language; she spoke much better English than many of us. It is the human aspect that matters. There is no question that if you like a person and can communicate with him you will be friendly. You will not stand off and act in an anti-social way. Consider what we do amongst ourselves. Can we be accused of discrimination because a particular person goes to morning tea with me or somebody else goes with another person to morning tea or afternoon tea, or to supper or to have their meals? Can that be said to be discrimination? Many of us prefer the company of certain other members of Parliament. Honourable senators, on the Government side and on this side, find that there are little groups of people who become very friendly and gravitate to one another. People in the respective groups in the party, couples, quartettes, or whatever they might be, do not look on other members as being racist because they do not go to morning tea and afternoon tea with them. We accept that some people like certain people more than others. When we are talking about discrimination, the term can have a very wide aspect. 
I should not think you would. The honourable senator is a legal man; so I ask him where this discrimination ends. I heard the sad story of  Senator Gietzelt.  I exonerate  Senator Button  from such remarks because he did have the good sense to say that apart from one or two speeches this really has not been a debate on an anti-discrimination Bill but it has been more like a debate on a migration Bill. 
We have been speaking of discrimination and racism but let us consider where this exists. To hear  Senator Gietzelt  and other honourable senators talk one would think that Australians were the worst in the world in relation to racism. One  speaker  quoted some man who had come from overseas and said that we were the worst racist country in the world. We have these people who come here and express their superintelligence and like to let us know that they know more than anybody else and that they are keen observers. They probably go to one city only and get their impressions. You see this happening time after time in respect of women's fashions and how they look after their faces. People come here and say that the skin of Australian women is the worst in the world. Probably such people have never met more than a dozen women in this country. People make these generalisations but what they say is just a lot of nonsense. They are seeking publicity. 
Where do we have a deep division over racism? What has happened in Australia between what might be termed the basic white Australians, the Aborigines, the Maltese, the Italians, the Greeks and everybody else who has come to this country? Have we had any deep divisions? What happens between us and the Jewish people and what happens between the different churches and all that sort of thing? Has any honourable senator heard of anybody in this country being shot over these issues? We are said to be a terrible crowd of racists. What happens? Some poor boy has been picked on at school. Somebody has said something about somebody else, And these are thought to be vital national issues. Really, it is silly. The whole issue gets down to the simple humanities of people. No matter where one is one will always hear somebody speak of somebody else disparagingly and one will hear somebody speak of others very nicely. These are the differences in people. An honourable senator mentions that he is encouraging his sons to marry Malays. He decided to get married; I am a bachelor. Am I to be accused of discriminating against women or are women to be accused of discriminating against me? Where do we finish up in this business? 
-I will finish all right. We in Australia are just amateurs in racial discrimination. In fact, as somebody who has travelled the world and who has studied recent history, I expect somebody to say that Australia is the weakest nation on earth because its inhabitants have very little racism in them. Let me give an illustration. People in this country have been bending over backwards in playing up to the Aborigines. There is more news on the radio and in the Press about Aborigines these days than there is about other Australians. 
I am very glad to hear the interjection from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I consider him to be a very sensible Minister because he does not get carried away with his portfolio. He has a sensible attitude to the matter and I pay him that tribute. We have been bending over backwards for the Aborigines. There is so much talk about them that I have often wondered whether there are 13 million Aborigines or part Aborigines in this country and 150 000 whites. That is the kind of talk that goes on. What do we get out of what we do? Do we get any credit? Of course we do not. 
I read in the Melbourne 'Herald' this afternoon that Australia is a racist country. Who made that statement? It was made by a fellow who is employed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and to whom the Government is paying a very handsome salary. It was made by a chap named Charles Perkins. Charles Perkins has been featured as being an Aboriginal. He is not an Aboriginal. He is much more a white Australian than he is an Aboriginal. We should wake up to the fact that when people are less than half blooded Aborigines- when they are threequarter white or even seven-eighths white- they are no longer Aborigines. We are just being treated as suckers because of the way in which we have been carted along in this regard. If people are Aborigines, they are Aborigines; if they are not Aborigines, they are not. The pure blooded Aborigines practise racism against fellows like Perkins and others. They look down on those people and they do not call them Aborigines. The are practising a form of racism against those people. Perkins has gone to England and has called this country the worst racist country. Who did he have with him handing out brochures? He had with him  Mr Bob  Little who apparently is another person paid by the Government. In a very interesting reply to a question which was asked of him today,  Senator Cavanagh  mentioned a third Aboriginal who is there and is being paid by the Government. This fellow Perkins received a government grant of $1 1,000 to write a book about 'my people'.  His  people? But true-blooded Aborigines do not look upon his as being an Aboriginal. 
That would be unmentionable. Honourable senators should talk to their government car drivers to find out what they can tell them about what Aborigines say about white people. Although I do not use this sort of language, they refer to 'those so-and-so whites'. Is that not racism? Of course it is racism. So wherever one goes one will find that sort of trouble with individuals. Goodness gracious me, as I said before, we in Australia are amateurs. What is there to be worried about? There are so many countries on the African continent that one gets mixed up in the races. A few years ago Nigeria, I think it was, was involved in quite a big war. In Biafra, the Ibos, I think it was, wanted to break away. The result was that there was a war and they got fixed by another coloured race. Was that not racism? Of course it was racism. There was also trouble in Malaysia a few years ago between the Chinese and the Malaysians in regard to occupying positions and so on. Was that not racism? Of course it was. It was a division because of races. Fights between races have taken place in Papua New Guinea. They have not been the natives fighting the whites, but the natives fighting other natives of different tribes. 
I am talking about coloured natives fighting coloured natives. Is that not racial discrimination? Of course it is. 
If the Government is able to fix racism in all these countries, it is a wonderful government. Then there is this fellow Amin in Uganda. What did he do? He popped off quite a few of the Indians in that country. He shot them. 
Yes, because I am talking about all the racism in the non-white countries. What did Amin do with the rest of the Indians? They were educated people and people who had lived all their lives in Uganda. What did he do with them? He threw them out of the country. Is that not racism? 
Now I am striking home, you see. As I said, we are only amateurs; we are just infants in the business. People like that make us look like fools when it comes to racism. That is Amin for you. What of the situation in Fiji which is not very far removed from us? What is the feeling of the Fijians towards the Indians in Fiji? Do they like them? Of course they do not. What was the trouble that took place in Fiji? 
The honourable senator did not hear me before. We are only amateurs. When you go shopping in Hong Kong with a Chinese guide, you might see something nice in a shop window and get the come-on from the shop-owner. You say: 'That is nice. I want to have a look at it'. If you insist on having a look the Chinese guide will reply: 'It is an Indian shop. You do not go in there'. One of our Government officers in Hong Kong told me that the division between Indians and Chinese in Hong Kong is far greater than anything we have in Australia. 
These are the difficulties and these are the things that are going on amongst the people of the different coloured races in other countries. Yet we are accused of being terrible racists because a boy at school says something about another boy or because somebody calls somebody else a Pom or a wog or something like that. It is really most pitiful. A song and dance is being made about nothing when we are said to be racists. As I have said before, this piece of legislation could create problems and difficulties for our people. It is the type of legislation that will cause disturbances and division amongst our people. It would be better if these things were left unsaid. 
Debate interrupted. 
I asked the Minister a question in connection with the $300,000, 1 think it was, appropriated for the expansion of the brick industry, in view of the situation in the brick industry; but I did not get a reply. 
I want to know what is the purpose of expanding the brick industry, in view of the present situation in the brick industry. Also I asked a question in regard to a statement made about $500,000 being made available for propaganda about inflation. I would now also like to ask: Is there any provision in Supply Bill (No. 1 ), which is presently before us, for a propaganda campaign in relation to the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation? I have not had a reply to the first 2 questions. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (2), leave out the paragraph (d). 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (e), leave out 'or in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia)'. 
Both amendments are consequential on the earlier decision of the Committee to exclude from this Bill any reference to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission- in other words, to prevent a merger between the OTC and the proposed Commission from taking place. 
Is leave given? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 

 - Senator Durack has moved only the first. I was going to suggest that your amendment be taken next, and that may obviate the necessity for the other two. 
I  present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the Insurance Industry of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October, 1974. 
That no sound reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) has been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful at this time. 
) That the insurance industry is already coping with 
the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
c) the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I should like to ask a question concerning Division 815, item 04, Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd- Compensation for resumption of lease, $300,000. I should like to know the purpose of expanding a brickworks in Canberra when one reads that the various companies in Canberra which make bricks at the present time are either just making ends meet or are not making ends meet. It would appear that at present brick making is not such a profitable venture. That might be because of the lack of demand or some other factor. It seems to me rather odd that the Government is expanding in this direction when it looks as though there is already a sufficient supply of bricks for Canberra. 
During the debate  Senator McAuliffe  spoke about utilising the finances of this country through Government avenues as though it were irresponsible. I think it is recognised that it is a right of the Parliament to investigate expenditure. None of us here would sign a cheque for the payment of an account unless we made sure that the account was correct. Therefore it is the right and the responsibility of honourable senators to act in the same way with regard to the public's money. 
Another aspect that concerns me is that it has been announced that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  says that he will spend $500,000 on advertising in order to inform the Australian people what inflation is and what it is all about. I do not know under what item this amount of money has been provided in the Supply Bills. I have looked through the items of expenditure for the various departments, but I cannot see anything about it. I wonder whether anybody could tell me just where this money will come from, because it seems to me to be a waste of money. With the raging inflation in Australia, which has seriously reduced the value of people's savings and assets, I think what the people want to know is not what inflation is but what the Government will do to cure it. I know that the Government has said that inflation was imported into this country. In the other place last week it was asked why, if inflation was imported from other countries and if inflation in those countries is now going down, it did not import a reduction in inflation. Instead of talking about what inflation is, I think that if the Government made a clear statement about what steps it will take to reduce inflation it would give the Australian people much more confidence and happiness. They would like to be told in a positive fashion what the Government proposes to do to reduce inflation. I ask: Has an amount of $500,000 to be spent on a campaign about inflation been provided under another head in the Supply Bills that we are discussing? 
-It is true. 
If we were to carry that rate of expenditure through for the full 12 months period, it would amount to almost $600m which the Government could spend without express parliamentary approval of any of the projects on which the money was actually being spent. This amount of $240m contrasts with a total of $150m for the whole of 1974-75, $120m for the whole of 1973-74, and $40m for the whole of 1972-73, which was the last year of office of the Liberal Government. We have not been given any explanation of the purposes for which this money is to be spent. I do not accept the so-called explanations in the Treasurer's document, because they are not explanations at all. Before the luncheon adjournment  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out that some items were covered by the actual appropriations or specific items in the Supply Bill, and there is no reason why other items mentioned could not have been so specified. I refer to one paragraph in the Treasurer's explanation. He states: 
There are a number of other programs in respect of which it is difficult to estimate expenditure during the Supply period because the incidence of applications for assistance under these programs is not predictable with any degree of accuracy- for example, Structural Adjustment Assistance and the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
It may well be that the applications for assistance as a result of hardships caused by Government policies will increase in a way that the Government cannot predict, and that is the meaning of the expression used by the Treasurer, but it is also unreasonable to say that, if the Government can predict with some reasonable certainty what the expenditure will be under the National Employment and Training Scheme, which is designed to take up some of the unemployment that the Government has caused, there cannot be a comparable estimate in these areas. The fact is that Parliament has not been asked to give approval to the structural adjustment assistance plan. This is something which the Minister administers entirely, which has no guidelines and which certainly has no approval by the Parliament. Whatever rules the Minister lays down he can change with the stroke of a pen. The same applies to the RED scheme. Again it is a scheme devised by Ministers without parliamentary approval. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (2), leave out paragraph (a). 
Leave out sub-clause (4). 
The amendments proposed to clause 39 by the Opposition are similar to those we moved to the Postal Services Bill, that is, to delete the requirement that one qualification for a person to be appointed a permanent officer of the Commission be that he be an Australian citizen. Of course, other qualifications are required. Clause 39 provides that one qualification is that he shall be an Australian citizen. Admittedly, there is a further provision that provides that the Minister may approve the appointment of a person who is not an Australian citizen, but we do not believe that this is a matter that should be within ministerial discretion. We think that service with an employer of the size of this Commission should not be restricted simply to Australian citizens. We believe that there may well be many migrants to Australia who have not become Australian citizens but who nevertheless could be highly qualified to work for the Commission, as they may have varieties of qualifications. They should not be excluded from permanent appointment merely because they have not yet become Australian citizens. The provision also is extremely restrictive in relation to migrants from the British Isles who, although they are British subjects, have not yet sought to take out and may not really intend to take out Australian citizenship in accordance with the laws that this Government has passed recently in that regard. That is the object of the amendments. We have already debated the question in relation to the Postal Services Bill, and the amendments are exactly the same as those which the Committee adopted in the debate on that Bill. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (1), leave out paragraph (b). In sub-clause (2), leave out paragraph (b). 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 72 to 93- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 94. 
Sub-section (1) does not apply to the erection, maintenance or operation of telecommunications installations- 
by the Australian National Railways Commission or by the railway authority of a State, being installations required for the transmission, by lines located wholly within the boundaries of lands vested in the Australian National Railways Commission or in that authority, of communications the transmission of which is necessary for the working of the railways for which the Australian National Railways Commission or that authority is responsible; 
by the tramway authority of a State, being installations required for the transmission, by line, of communications the transmission of which is necessary for the working of the tramway for which that authority is responsible; 
by any person authorized by the Commission to do so under section 13 to the extent and on the terms and conditions subject to which that person is so authorized under that section; 
by any person who is the holder of a licence under the Wireless Telegraphy Act, to the extent that the person is authorized by the terms of the licence; 
by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to Division 3 of Part III of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942- 1 974; ( 0 by the holder of a licence under Part IV of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942- 1 974 in accordance with the terms of the licence; or 
by any person, being installations which are capable of use only for the transmission of communications within or upon land or premises of which he is the owner or occupier and which are used solely for his own purposes. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (l)(d), omit 'those sections', insert 'that Act'. 
In sub-clause (2) (d), omit 'those sections', insert 'that Act'. 
This is a drafting clarification. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 15. 
A reference in this Pan to a person who was, immediately before the commencing day, an officer of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) does not include a reference to a person who ceased to be such an officer on the day immediately before the commencing day by reason of his retirement, resignation or dismissal. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause ( I ), leave out 'or to the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) '. 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), leave out 'or the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), as the case may be, '. 
Both of these amendments are consequential on the decision in relation to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
Section 51 of the Telecommunications Act 1975 applies to a promotion of an officer of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) to a vacant position in the Service of that Commission that was made before the commencing date but had not been completed before that date as if- 
the officer had, on the effective date, been promoted by the Australian Telecommunications Commission to fill the corresponding position in the Service of that last-mentioned Commission; 
the corresponding position in the Service of the Australian Telecommunications Commission had been in existence, and had been vacant, on the effective date; and 
any action taken in connexion with the promotion before the commencing day had effect as if it had been taken in relation to the promotion of the person to the corresponding position in the Service of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
For the purposes of this section, the promotion of an officer to fill a vacancy in an office in the PostmasterGeneral's Department or a vacancy in a position in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) shall be taken not to be completed if it has not been confirmed or cancelled. 
In this section- 
a reference to the corresponding position in the Service of the Australian Postal Commission or of the Australian Telecommunications Commission, in relation to an office in the Postmaster-General's Department or to a position in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), is a reference to a position determined by the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission, as the case may be, being a position the duties of which are the same or substantially the same as the duties of that office or position and which has a classification equivalent to the classification of that office or position; and 
a reference to the effective date, in relation to the promotion of a person to fill a vacancy in an office in the Postmaster-General's Department or a position in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), is a reference to the date on which the person was promoted to fill the vacancy. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Leave out sub-clauses (3) and (4). 
In sub-clause ( 5 ), leave out 'or ( 3 ) '. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 36 to 38- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 39. 
Where- 
a person deemed to have been appointed to the Service of a Commission under Part IV; or 
a person engaged as an employee of a Commission in pursuance of section 24, is liable to pay an amount to Australia, or would, but for this Act, be liable to pay an amount to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), in respect of an overpayment of any salary or allowance paid to him before the commencing day by Australia or by that Commission, as the case may be, the person is liable to pay that amount to that Commission. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In clause 39(a)(1)(b) leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) '. 
In clause 39 (a) (3), leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) or to both'. 
In clause 39 (a) (3) after (d), leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), or to both, as the case requires.' 
In clause 39 (a) (4), leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), or to both '. 
In clause 39(a)(5), leave out '-(a)'; leave out '; or'; leave out '(b) positions included in a class of positions in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia),' 
In clause 39(a)(5), leave out 'with a class of offices, a class of designations of persons or a class of positions referred to in paragraph (a) or (b)' and insert in lieu 'with that class of offices, designations of persons or positions'. 
In clause 39 (a)(7) leave out sub-paragraphs (c) and (d). 
In clause 39 (a) (8), leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) '. 
In clause 39 (a) ( 1 1 ), leave out 'or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) '. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Proposed new clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 40 and 41- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 41  A. 
-On behalf of  Senator Devitt  who is unavoidably absent because of illness, and at his request, I seek leave to make a statement in relation to this matter. 
-Some days ago this matter was before the Senate for debate and I spoke for some time then on this Racial Discrimination Bill, so let me give a quick resume. I stated then, and I repeat, that this is the type of Bill which should not exist in this country of ours. It is a lot of utter nonsense and rubbish to bring such a Bill before this Parliament in order to inflict it upon the people of this country. To talk about racialism in this country in the manner in which it has been talked about is, as I have said, nonsense because I would say that racialism in this country probably is practised less than it is in the big majority of countries. 
What is racial discrimination? Is it discrimination because of the different nationalities of people? Is it discrimination because of the different colour of people? Is it discrimination because some people are not as well off as are others, or because of whatever other aspect we may think of? Much fuss is made of racialism. As I stated the other evening when I was speaking on the Bill, the integration of people and of people accepting and getting to know one another is very much a personal matter. This is particularly so in relation to newcomers to this country. If they speak the language it is much easier for those people to be accepted and brought within the warm human fold of the people of this country. I also pointed out that if we try to talk to and help, in discussions, people who cannot speak the language, the average human being will tire very quickly. Therefore, the matter of accepting one another, getting on well with one another, and of not having discrimination depends in many cases upon individuals. I cited the case of a lady in my own city of Mackay who recently came there for the South Sea Islanders Association Conference. This woman who was of islander extraction, spoke perfect English in a delightful manner. Because of her own personal manner and attitude, she would be the type of person that anyone would be pleased to speak with and treat in a friendly way. 
She was intelligent, she was interested in things and so on. This indicates very clearly that, to a large extent, how people are accepted depends on the people themselves. There are good and bad in every race in this world and even within the race of one country- take the people in Australia who are established citizens- there are people we like and people we do not like. Are we to be accused of racial discrimination because we do not like those people? It is a case of personal desires and personal likes, but legislation such as this Racial Discrimination Bill when put into effect, is the type of thing that can cause to develop, in the minds of certain people in this country, an attitude on racial discrimination that can be of a very dangerous character. It is easy to say, 'Someone acted against me racially', or That person showed racial discrimination'. Often these things can be in the mind of the accuser, but the big difficulty is for the person accused to overcome that accusation because, having been accused, the difficulty is for him to speak otherwise. 
-Yes, Whitlam and Cass have said a few things about each other. I feel that this type of legislation gives a big opportunity for people to be destructive towards one another. One of the previous speakers in the debate,  Senator Gietzelt,  tried to shed many tears about people being called poms, wogs and so on. When all is said and done, we are called all sorts of names. Amongst our own people, we probably would call one another all sorts of names, but is that the sort of thing we want to go shooting people about or causing trouble about? As I have said, that is a very simple type of racialism, and to what does it amount? Goodness gracious me, we in this country are amateurs as far as racialism is concerned. There are people in countries who talk about Australia being racist. I have in mind Uganda and other countries. What did Amin do when he took over Uganda? He just emptied the Indians out of the country. Was that not racialism? What about what happened in Malaysia between the Chinese and the Malays? Were those fights not racial fights? What about Fiji and the feeling towards the Indians there? What about Burma? What happened to the Chinese, the Indians and a few other people there some years ago? 
There is racialism there. The point is that people in many of the countries I have mentioned do not call one another poms and wogs they pop them off. In fact, they slice them off at times, too. If we talk about fair dinkum racialism, we are amateurs and have much to learn. Recently, we have had a man named Perkins running around the country accusing this Government and the people of being racist. What utter nonsense. He is the type of man and many others like him who stir up a racial attitude. 
We hear him talking about the fact that he has a grant of $ 1 1,000 to write about the Aboriginal people. He speaks about 'my people'. Who are his people? He has not much Aboriginal blood in him. Most of his blood is white race blood. We are suckers. We fall for this sort of thing and we play up to these people. When people have something of another race in them, no longer, in my mind, do they belong to the race from which they may have stemmed, so the sooner we wake up to this sort of nonsense the better for this country. I feel that many people who are running around about this racial business are the opportunists, the self-seekers, and limelighters who want publicity in these matters. Where are we going to stop this business? Does the Government think that legislation of this kind will stop people being racist, if we think they are being racist, that they have feelings about this person or that person? I remember not so very many months ago that four black men were sitting on a very nice seat which the council had built outside my own premises in the business area of Mackay. They were eating very large prawns. A rubbish bin was just alongside them. Where were they throwing the remains of the prawns? They were throwing them on the concrete footpath in front of the seat. 
Wait a minute. I walked out to them and being keen on the cleanliness of the city- we should commend civic pride and not try to destroy it- I spoke to the men in a very courteous manner and told them that we were trying to keep the city clean. I asked them to help by putting the rubbish in the bin which was at the end of the seat. The abuse that came from one of those fellows was disgraceful, so much so that I had to ring the police. Would I be accused of racism because I rang the police? Would the police be accused of racism if they had caught the men? The men knew what I was doing and they galloped off. 
I would do that to a white person too, because I am very keen on cleanliness in the city. When I was mayor of my city, Mackay was known as possibly the cleanest city in the State. These are the sorts of things that make one realise how legislation like this can be used to charge people with being racists, and so on. 
I understand England has a racial board. Sometimes in England a person advertises a house for sale and half a dozen people wish to buy it, one of whom is coloured. If the coloured person does not get to buy the house, he accuses the seller of displaying racism. What is the result? Because the seller is accused of racism I understand the coloured man has to get the home. The result of this is that people in Britain are now selling their homes by tender. Whilst these things might originate on the part of legislators with probably a high minded purpose sometimes the legislation can be of a very destructive character to people. I believe that in the long run legislation of this type can divide our people much more than at present. Sometimes people have an aversion to others either because of personality, race, creed, or whatever it might be. Does that mean that that is such a bad thing? What about a person who claims to have come from a lowly position under poor circumstances? I know in earlier days it was probably a crime to be poor. Does it worry me? Of course it does not. If the person concerned has character and has within himself a determination to build himself and to go forward the silly things that people say about each other in racial terms or in other discriminatory terms are just not worthwhile worrying about. 
Let me take a very striking case. Have any people in the world been more discriminated against over the centuries than the Jewish people? I doubt it. They have been discriminated against considerably through the years. What are the Jewish people today? What have they been for many years? I would make bold to say that the Jewish people on a percentage basis would be one of the most intelligent, best educated and most creative people in the world despite all that has been done against them. Because of the character within them, because of what they believe in and because of their aims they are today a race that carries a very high respect in a very great section of the world. They were, as we know, a people without a country; but now they have the state of Israel. Everbody I have met who has been to Israel has spoken without exception of the magnificent development the Jewish people have made in their country. This is even more apparent when compared with nearby countries. The Jewish people have turned the country, comparatively speaking, into a garden compared to some of the other countries. 

 - Senator Missen says: 'Yet they are still discriminated against in this country.' To what extent are they discriminated against? Have their opportunities deteriorated in any way? Has it frustrated them from developing? The Jewish people have achieved a greatness, a development and an enrichment in many ways because they did not allow this silly business of discrimination to worry them and to beat them down. 
I am not saying that discrimination is good. I am saying that if people have the right character, thinking and ability within themselves adversity and things against them often give them a determination to dig deep within themselves and to build themselves into better and richer persons mentally and in other ways. 
Apart from racism, I refer to people who have been born in poor circumstances. We find that the difficulties they have had, the determination within themselves and the adversity which they experienced in early life have been really a great opportunity upon which to build. So it is in all these aspects. The fact of somebody having a racial attitude towards a person should not worry that person. It should not affect him. If he is the right type of person it should give him a determination to go ahead and prove himself so that the people who may discriminate against him might secretly in the long run admire him for what he is. I have never seen strong racism against migrants. Probably in Queensland we might be a more tolerant, friendlier and more accepting people. The 2 main types of people who have come to my city of Mackay as migrants are Maltese and Italians. I thought the other night of the number of people of those nationalities that I know. They are, today, in many cases people of quite considerable affluence in our community. They are people who have been accepted. I have not seen any discrimination against them. So far as I can find everyone in the region accepts these people and treats them in the best possible way. If they can speak English there is no difficulty at all. 
These of course are just some of the aspects that I think should be emphasised. Do not let us get carried away with this racism business to the extent that we think it is so deep that this country is divided. That is absolute nonsense. To those idealistic romanticists who want to straighten out everything and have everybody perfect I want to say that this legislation will not change people. People are human beings. Just as we cannot stop people of the same race from not caring for each other so we will not in the main change this attitude that begins very often when people do not know each other very well. I am strongly opposed to this legislation. I feel it is the type of legislation that should be left unexpressed. It is the type of legislation that can lead to deep schisms in our community and cause great trouble to individuals. Therefore, despite all the ideals behind it, I think it is a very great mistake, If we on this side of the chamber had any sense we would throw out the legislation. The trouble is that there is too much weakness, too much jelly in the backbone of some of the people in this chamber for them to stand up and do what is right. I feel that as the days and the years go by we will regret not having taken a stronger stand on this legislation. It is abhorrent to me to suggest that racism is of great consequence in this country. Race after race of coloured people fight each other, stab each other, cut each other and kill each other. As I said before, the people of some countries in Africa and elsewhere who are so loud in their cries of racism demonstrate to us that we are just infants and amateurs in racism. I oppose the legislation very strongly. 
I oppose the distribution of seats in Queensland as outlined in the proposal before the Senate. I do so because from the Queensland point of view the proposal is contrary to what would be in the best interests of a proper distribution of seats in that State. Probably this proposal represents the most striking alteration made to electoral boundaries in Queensland. The alterations relate to the seats of Kennedy and Maranoa. It is proposed that there be added to Maranoa, already a very large electorate, a great proportion of the Kennedy electorate which also is a very big one. The people who made this distribution seem to think that electorates of this size in Queensland are easy to encompass within the activities of parliamentarians. The proposal indicates that they really do not consider the diversity of interests in such electorates. One of the big mining developments, located at Mount Isa, together with the Maranoa electorate is being thrown into the new electorate of Kennedy although there is absolutely no community of interests between the mining in Mount Isa and the rural pursuits engaged in in the grazing areas of the Maranoa electorate. 
The new electorate will be more than 1000 miles deep and over 1000 miles wide and that is a fair area to expect a parliamentarian to be able to get around. I know it will be a feature of the Government's argument that in Western Australia there is the big seat of Kalgoorlie but there is no comparison so far as representation is concerned. The Kalgoorlie electorate contains only a few centres of population whereas over the years it has been recognised that there has been much decentralisation of population in Queensland. Towns and cities have sprung up throughout Queensland. This indicates that over the years there has been a very good distribution of population in that State. 
-When the know-all from Western Australia finishes I will proceed with my speech. In the State of Queensland the population is well distributed in centres, towns and cities. This area is a far different proposition altogether to the electorate of Kalgoorlie. Members of Parliament do not represent miles of sand; they represent areas and people. The existing electorates of Maranoa and Kennedy have to be represented and the people in the communities in those electorates have to be represented. It is well recognised that parliamentarians, particularly members of the House of Representatives, have to maintain contact with the people in their various communities. To enlarge the present electorate of Maranoa by the addition of so much of the Mount Isa area and then calling it by a new name, or even using the old name 'Kennedy', will put a terrific load on any one parliamentarian. I think,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you, as a Queenslander, would agree that it would be a pretty hefty piece of land and population to represent properly. Therefore I think that the people who made this distribution made a serious mistake. It is not only a matter of the area but of the utilisation of the area. People are using the land embraced in these electorates and the population is clustered into the cities and towns throughout this very large region. Despite what is said, people in distant areas require just as much representation as do people in cities or towns on the coast. 
It is very easy to talk purely on a population basis but it is the population together with the areas being utilised and developed in a proper way, as is the land in both these electorates, that has to be considered. Therefore I think more consideration should have been given to this aspect. I know it is the tendency to favour the people on the coast and the people in the larger cities but those people have much more convenient access to members of Parliament, as do members of Parliament to them, than people living in these particular areas. A rather amazing lack of knowledge of these areas is shown by some people. For instance, I want to refer to a submission by the Australian Labor Party to the electoral Distribution Commissioners for Queensland for the 1974 distribution. They talked about the western Queensland electorate covering such places as Mount Isa, Chinchilla, Cunnamulla, Dalby and other areas which are in the electorates I am speaking of at present, Maranoa and Kennedy. They said: 
Communication by commercial airline and three western rail lines would facilitate servicing the large western seat, a consideration which did not seem apparent when the boundaries for Kennedy were set in 1968. 
As a Queenslander,  Sir, you  will know that the air service and the rail links to those areas have not been established since 1968. Rail communication has been there for as long as you and I can remember, and air services have been there for many years. But it is rather surprising that they should mention this, because at this time services provided by Trans-Australian Airlines have been reduced and have been only partly restored by private enterprise. For the Labor Party to come forward and say: 'Now that we have these rail and air service links in these areas, everything will be jake ', indicates that they are a little bit behind the times, I think, and it would indicate that the thinking of the Labor Party has not really caught up with the requirements of these western areas, or that it does not realise what is really necessary. 
Another amazing thing when there were proposals for redistribution in 1968 was that the present Chief Electoral Officer of Queensland,  Mr Weise,  was then a distribution commissioner for the State of Queensland, as he was on this occasion too. What did he say when the proposed Division of Kennedy was being made to encroach more on to the south-east boundary? It is interesting to note that the proposed 1968 redistribution boundaries of Kennedy and Maranoa, comprising areas of 247 500 square miles and 194 565 square miles respectively, extended from the western boundary of Queensland to within 140 miles of the city of Brisbane.  Mr Weise  said then: 
The proposed Division of Kennedy encroaches upon the area of south-east Queensland with which it has little or no community of interest. 
Here, the same  Mr Weise  now throws all these things into the Maranoa electorate taking it to the south-east to which he objected in 1968, and he has forgotten all about the fact that there is no community of interest. That is what he said himself in his own submission in 1968, and now he does exactly the reverse. Why has this come about? Was there any influence used? Was there any political thinking? Was there a feeling that the government of the day might want this sort of thing? It does seem to be a reversal of form by this gentleman.  His  submission in 1968 bears out what I have been saying, and that is that there is not a community of interest within the areas that are being amalgamated into one large electorate. Then, of course, some of the area of Kennedy has been thrown into other areas. 
The electorate in which I live is the Dawson electorate, and I think honourable senators will agree with me that the grazing interests of some of the western towns such as Longreach have not much of a twin feeling with the sugar industry of Queensland which forms the great bulk of the industry of the Dawson electorate. Once again, we find the inclusion of the grazing areas in the Dawson electorate. This indicates that for some reason or another on this occasion the people rearranging the boundaries of Queensland have gone ofl" the beam and forgotten what was said before about the lack of community interest. Therefore, it would seem to me that so far as my own State of Queensland is concerned it has not been a very good redistribution at all. Also, along the coast towards Brisbane there have been various alterations made. It does look as though there may have been a building up of the strength of liberalism in some places, probably packing more Liberal voters into some areas, and also throwing out Labor oriented sections of some divisions into others such as the new seat of Fadden, making it a possible Labor seat. 
I know there is a suggestion that there may be partisanship in this sort of thing. It does look to me to be a very clear re-aligning of the boundaries of Queensland on this occasion. My own feeling, right from the time that I saw the redistribution proposals, was that what the commissioners did to Maranoa and Kennedy in the western part of Queensland was ridiculous in the extreme. I do not think any parliamentarian here could honestly say that he could represent those areas and keep in contact with the people as a member of the House of Representatives nearly as well as a member representing a division on the coast could do with his electorate. It seems to me that throughout this redistribution the commissioners have completely forgotten about community of interest and have just stuck pieces of one electorate onto another electorate, and so on, making it a State without the community of interest that we have had in the past in the various electorates. In those circumstances, I oppose this redistribution for my own State, and I have no hesitation in saying so. 
I notice that  Mr Daly,  who is a very good Minister so far as parliamentarians are concerned, has more or less indicated that we were off the beam and were not doing the right thing when we rejected the redistribution for some other States. It is very nice to hear some of the Labor parliamentarians saying how the redistribution proposals should appeal to the Liberals, meaning of course it will help to build up the Liberal Party to the detriment of the National Country Party. I have never seen in all the years I have been here any indication that  Mr Daly  has really been very interested in building up the Liberal Party. Of course there is nothing like throwing out a sprat to catch a mackerel.  Mr Daly  is no fool politically, and I think it is quite fair to say of him- I have said this to him and he knows itthat he is a numbers man. The predominant feature in the mind of  Mr Daly  is getting as many seats for his own Labor Party as he possibly can. There is no question about that and he does not deny it. 
So, as I said, for  Mr Daly  to suggest that he is worrying about building up a Liberal Party is just utter nonsense. Therefore, I definitely oppose these redistribution proposals for Queensland, and I remind honourable senators of the inconsistency of at least one of the people making the redistribution, bearing in mind his arguments in 1968 and what he said now. 
I think  Senator Wright  is to be complimented on investigating this matter and bringing forward the point he has made. As one who is in favour of the Bill, 1 want to say that 1 am disturbed to know that our Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee comprised of legal men mostly, I understand, should come to the chamber today and admit that this particularly important aspect was not noticed. This is a very serious admission and probably takes the confidence away from one who, as a layman, has been resting upon the advice of our legal members in this chamber. I listened to  Senator Wright,  and I think it is rather odd that these cohabitations are permissible. I have my own views on the matter of the dissolution of marriage but I am beginning to wonder whether, by the time the appeal comes to the court, and if the parties are still cohabitating there really is any validity in the appeal. 
-What the House of Representatives sent back? 
Apparently the House of Representatives has sent back to us an amendment which goes beyond what the Senate desired at the time. I think that, under those circumstances we should reject the House of Representatives amendment. Apparently it was sent from the Senate in a much tidier and better form than that in which it has come back to us. The other aspect about which I am concerned particularly from the woman's point of view - 
The House of Representatives amendment, yes. 
In listening to  Senator Wright  I was convinced that he had a point. I believe in keeping my mind open to argument and if someone brings forward something I listen to it. The Minister admitted that the Committee let something go through without noticing it, and  Senator Chaney  said the same thing. It is apparent that there is logic and justification in  Senator Wright's  argument.  Senator Missen,  who also takes a great interest in this type of legislation, has admitted that the amendment which has come back to the Senate is beyond what went to the House of Representatives. 
Yes. I feel that what was originally decided in the Senate apparently is better and, under those circumstances, I think that  Senator Wright  should be supported in throwing out the amendment from the House of Representatives. The other aspect I was about to get on to  is  from the woman's point of view, which is of particular interest to me from the humanitarian angle, and thinking of not every women being one of those liberated people who can earn $lm whenever they feel like it, or so they say. There are many wives in our community who, under the circumstances  Senator Wright  mentioned, are very deserving of every consideration. I am disturbed by  Senator Wright's  remarks that in letting the legislation go through he believes that insufficient consideration has been given to the welfare of a woman such as one who is about to have a baby or who has just had a baby. 
This is one of the questions which I asked various members of the profession before voting on it previously.  Senator Wright  is a distinguished person who throughout the years has shown honesty of purpose in deliberations in this chamber, and knowing the examination he gives to these matters, and the knowledge he brings to them, I am disturbed that he feels that a general principle like that has been, to a very great extent, relegated and overlooked. However, the effect of this amendment that has come to this place from the House of Representatives is such that after hearing  Senator Wright  I think it should be rejected, and I will vote accordingly. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was indicating that there can be 2 reasons why an act alleged to be an act of racial discrimination has occurred. One could be because a person was in effect racially discriminating and the other could be because he regarded the provision of a service or the granting of accommodation as a credit risk which he was not prepared to undertake. Under the clause as it stands it is immaterial that the reason of race, colour, nationality or ethnic origin is not the dominant reason. It is sufficient if it is a reason. We believe it is incumbent upon anybody who wants to take to court a person alleged to have committed a wrong to allege that the racial reason, if I can put it that way, was the dominant reason and not simply to say that it was one reason. The Opposition therefore seeks to amend the clause inthe manner circulated. I move: 
Leave out 'whether or not that reason is the dominant reason for the doing of the act ', insert 'provided that reason is the dominant reason for the doing of the act'. 
I think  Senator Greenwood  said that this clause is the crux of the opposition from the people of Australia who are opposed to this Bill. I recognise what this Bill means so far as freedom of speech and freedom to write are concerned. My colleague  Senator Missen  said that when I spoke to this Bill earlier I spoke as being of the 19th century, but he was out of date. I am not of the 19th century; I am a 20th century youngster. I was born in the 20th century but I try to look at things in a practical way and to think of what the people of Australia really want, not just what a few academics and a few airy-fairy people want. 
The clause before us would restrict people in many ways. It has been said that Australia is a multi-cultural country and so on. There are lots of people who have various views on this matter and it was until only recently that the white Australia policy operated in this country. There were people on the Government side who agreed with that policy. There are still some people who are concerned about the changing of the culture of this country. This type of legislation would stop such people expressing themselves in this regard. There are lots of people who are greatly concerned about the influx of particular types of migrants who might well in the not too distant future completely change the outlook of this country. This has happened in other places already. Despite what people say about Africa the Bantu people have flocked over the borders in thousands because, despite what is said in Australia, they are still better off than they were in their own country. Fortunately we have seas surrounding us and therefore the influx of people depends on our immigration policy. 
There are elements in that immigration policy that are of concern to certain Australian people. If this clause is allowed to remain in the Bill, publishing or distributing written material about such matters probably could bring about a serious action against the people responsible. We are a democracy and I believe that people have a right to express themselves if they think that the government of the day, whichever government it is, alters things in a way which is thought to be wrong so far as the developing and increasing of our population are concerned. People should have a perfect right and opportunity to express themselves accordingly. This country is theirs just as much as it is mine and yours,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
I turn now to this matter of uttering words in a public place. We have heard talk about people being called poms and wogs and so on. In the minds of some people apparently this can cause a great feeling of racial discrimination. I read where an English lady wrote to one of the Sydney newspapers and said that she treated it as good fun. A lot of people take these things that way but others take them seriously. Some mean them in good fun and some might mean them seriously. We should not allow these things to get out of proportion when considering what is right and wrong in the behaviour of people. There is no question that people often express themselves strongly, particularly if they have drunk too much of a particular type of juice or are upset for some reason. Some people might speak a bit more strongly than they might do otherwise. It is a little bit tough for such people to be called up just because they say something or publish something that somebody regards as being racial discrimination. There is no doubt that people often say things in the heat of the moment. It is amazing what can be done if people say words in a public place in the hearing of another person. 
Where do we stop this discrimination business? Do we regard it just as a matter of race and colour? We might have discrimination in politics. We might have discrimination of people. I have sat in the parliamentary dining room for a number of years and there have been certain times, following events in this Parliament when I may not have voted for the government of the day which happened to be formed by the parties I support, when I have noticed that people did not sit at my table. I noticed discrimination also as 1 walked around the chamber. I think  Senator Wright  also might have received this treatment. Certain people did not talk to him. But we did not take those people to court and ask that they be imprisoned because of political discrimination or anything of that nature. We want to get these things into a proper sense of proportion. It is just utter nonsense if people are to be shot at at law just because they have expressed something about somebody. 
From the way people talk one would think that this legislation is aimed against the white people. According to the sugar-coating around this Bill, it relates to racists. However, it is inherent in the minds of a lot of people who draft this legislation that it might be a matter of colour. We know that people of one coloured race often criticise people of another coloured race. For instance, a journalist who happened to be talking to me yesterday said that on one occasion when he was in the Services he and others were being waited on at table by Indian waiters and an American army officer, a Negro, entered. The waiters said that they were not going to serve that so-and-so. That is an example of racial discrimination between people of 2 coloured races. 
I can refer to the Aboriginal people who are talked about and featured so much. It is frequently said that a full-blooded Aboriginal looks down upon people who are not full-blooded Aboriginal and speak of them in disparaging terms and suggest certain things. Are we going to prosecute a full-blooded Aboriginal because he criticises people with only partial Aboriginal blood? What are we going to do in that regard? If we are to take these full-blooded Aboriginals before the court, how are we going to let them know that they must not talk in such a way? This is the type of thing that goes on. We have people who parade themselves as being of a certain race when they are not. For instance,  Mr Perkins  parades around as an Aboriginal and tells it to the world. He has been overseas trying to blot the name of Australia, and he even included the present Government. I do not think he was at all justified in saying what he did. When he returned he said that he deliberately did it to try to insult Australia and put us in a bad light with people overseas. He intends to do this.  Mr Perkins  parades around as an Aboriginal because of the silly legislation brought in by the LiberalCountry Party Government which I supported, which legislation gave anybody who likes to call himself an Aboriginal the right to do so. The present Government is still maintaining that attitude.  Mr Perkins  does not have very much Aboriginal blood. What do the full-blooded Aborigines think? Do they accuse this Government or the last Government of being racist for allowing such people to call themselves full-blooded Aborigines? A full-blooded Aborigine might say that it is an insult to the Aboriginal race. 
This racial business is a very vexed question and one which is very hard to straighten out. When all is said and done, we have to remember that we are dealing with human beings and it has been said that legislation cannot change the minds of people towards each other. I believe that this clause could well be dumped into the rubbish heap. I must say that I am pleased that the Opposition has moved to eliminate it from the Bill. 
-If that is the correct procedure, I seek leave to withdraw my amendment. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is the Government aware that the level of industrial dislocation and strife in Australia has reached astronomical proportions? What has gone wrong with the claim made by the Australian Labor Party before the 1972 election that it knew best how to ensure industrial peace? What action does the Government propose to take with respect to the current wave of major strikes and disruptions? I instance the most significant and noteworthy of the current and planned strikes and disruptions: The strikes planned by metal workers and railway employees in Sydney and other major Australian capitals next week; the continuing threat to the lives and safety of hospital patients in Victoria and on the south coast of New South Wales; and finally the violent intimidation currently being exercised by building workers' unions in Victoria. Is the Government able to take action? If it does not propose to take action, will the Minister explain whether this is because of lack of willingness or lack of power? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to the loan situation. Is he aware that the loan was first sought in the United States by people who had authority from the Minister at the time? Is he aware that one of the people on the negotiating side travelled to America with a member of the staff of the then Treasurer? Is he aware that the then Treasurer, after attending a conference in the southern part of America, journeyed to the northern part of America in order to give accreditation to the representations for a loan? Is he aware that when the loan was agreed upon, the United States Treasury agreed to the loan being made? Is he aware that the then Treasurer,  Dr Cairns,  accepted the loan and then later turned it down? In view of the statement from the Leader of the Government giving an indication that letters such as those held by Dolmac Consultants have no authority, does he not consider that it is the usual practice in business and in other areas that when claims made by people that they are representing other people are found not to be correct, an authority- in this case it would be the Government of Australia- makes that known to the world in order to clear the good name of the country concerned? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he is aware that on 25 March, J. F. Cairns, on Treasury notepaper, wrote a letter to Alco International Pty Ltd, Melbourne- for the attention of  Mr George  Harris- advising that the Government was interested in exploring overseas loan funds, and stating: 
. in the event of a successful negotiation which may be introduced or arranged by you and provided the interest rate for a term loan does not exceed 8 per cent per annum in total we would be prepared to pay once only brokerage fee of  Vh  per cent deducted at the source to you and/or your nominee. We would need to be satisfied about the source of the funds, and the size of the loan would have to be appropriate to our needs. 
Is the Minister aware that as a result of those negotiations, money was arranged for the Government, I understand, in the sum of $2,000m? 
What I did was to quote from the letter that I had seen. It is all very well to impute dishonest motives to people - 
-Thank you,  Senator Wheeldon.  I can talk, too, about  Mr Whitlam  's praising you up as a Minister yet he never wanted you as a Minister. He also has been dishonest about you. I could not table the document because I was quoting from notes. 
You can have the notes. If you want the notes I am prepared to table the notes. Here, you can have the whole lot of them. I object to motives being imputed against a person, and statements that he is dishonest or afraid. I have been here for 2 5 te years and I do not think that I have ever been afraid to vote for or oppose in accordance with what I considered to be the right thing. When I refer to these matters I do not do so with a lack of knowledge. I happen to have had contacts with people who have been associated with this loan development, first in Amenca and then amongst the Arab people. I was the person who arranged the interview with  Dr Cairns  for one of these people, so when I speak I do not do so with a lack of knowledge of the whole process. 
Is that what you think,  Senator Keeffe?  I have not been paid commission. I was acting in my capacity as a senator to make an introduction or arrange an interview. I can tell the story of this whole business from the beginning to the end. In my opinion, authority was definitely given to raise this money. 
I seek leave. 
Some Honourable Senators- Aye. 
Listening to the debate, I heard  Senator Georges  speak in disparaging terms about the Queensland Government and in praiseworthy terms about the present Australian Government for introducing the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Bill. I remind him that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government was responsible for the creation of the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Townsville for the purpose of propagating a thorough knowledge of the Great Barrier Reef. I want to speak on this wonderful piece of nature as one who knows the Reef and who has been associated with it in its development from the tourist side and looking at it from other aspects for over 40 years. A lot of airy fairy talk goes on about the Reef. Personally I do not see the necessity for this legislation. Despite what has been said by  Senator Georges  the Queensland Government has been alert to the value of this wonderful asset and, in the main, has exercised control over it. 
It might interest  Senator Georges  to learn that many years ago when men like  Mr Romeo  Lahey was the  President  and  Mr Groom  was the Secretary of the National Parks Association of Queensland I co-operated with them and had discussions with them as to which Queensland islands should be made national parks. As a result many of the islands of the Great Barrier Reef area and the inner reef area are today national parks. I think that the State governments over those years, irrespective of their political colour, have done a good job in looking after this very valuable asset. When people speak of the Great Barrier Reef they have different views about it. It always amazes me when people who live in the southern regions profess to know more about the Great Barrier Reef than we who live in the region of the Great Barrier Reef. The people  Senator Georges  mentioned are mostly Brisbane people. They are mostly people who come from outside the Great Barrier Reef area. 
Of course it is a national asset, but it happens to be within the area of the State of Queensland. One would think that the people of Queensland are a group of people who have not got very much regard for the beautiful things of nature. The Queensland Government and the people of Queensland are conscious of this very great asset. 
Let me talk about the area of the Great Barrier Reef.  Senator Durack  spoke about the length of the Great Barrier Reef and said that it extended southwards towards the Brisbane area. The Great Barrier Reef area does not go that far south. 
Wait a minute. There is much difference of opinion about the area covered by the Great Barrier Reef. Where does the Great Barrier Reef really end? 
The southernmost part of the Great Barrier Reef is in the Swain Reef area, but there is even a Great Barrier Reef institute in the Heron Island area. The island groups in that area are known as the Bunker and Capricorn groups. So there are distinct reef areas that are outside the range of the Great Barrier Reef area. What does the Great Barrier Reef area consist of, to most people? They mostly think of the mainland islands. It is reckoned that many years ago the islands, which are mountainous in character, were part of the mainland and became submerged. The hills and mountains of those areas are the peaks of what are today termed the mainland islands. Then one gets the other aspects of the Reef. 
What is the Reef? The Reef has several features. First there is the main Barrier Reef structure. The reason it was named the Great Barrier Reef is because it is the greatest barrier type of reef in the world. It is a barrier-like structure. It is not solid all the way down. There are breaks in it. There are reefs that are probably one mile, 5 miles, 10 miles or 15 miles long and that might be one mile or 2 miles deep; then it dips again and then comes up in another area before going further back in another direction. Sometimes there can be a series of reefs 40 or 50 miles across that come up and dip down and come up again and dip down again. They are not always parallel with each other. Sometimes they edge beyond the points of the different reefs. That, of course, is the true structure of the Great Barrier Reef. 
Within the confines of the Reef there are also what are termed coral cay. The coral cay is really that part of the coral that has broken up into a sandy mass and, swirling around the Reef and catching in certain places, with the swirling of the tides there is developed over probably a matter of centuries what is called a coral cay. It might be 100 acres or something of that nature in size. It is just a sandy base on top of dead coral. Then there are the coral atolls. They are similar to the cay insofar as they have coral around them but the sand has not yet swirled in and settled down. So there is a lagoon in the area. That is what is a coral atoll. Then there are what are termed the mainland islands. Around these mainland islands are very beautiful fringing coral reefs. So far as the people are concerned, those are probably the 4 components of the Great Barrier Reef. There is a lot of silly talk about the destruction of the Reef. I know that  Senator Georges  talked about drilling for oil on the Reef. Of course it sounds a very dangerous thing. But how many oil wells really blow out? 
What has been the record over the years? 
No one is keener on preservation than myself. I was a preservationist not for display and publicity but because I believed in preservation. The national park at the back of 
Mackay stands today as a monument to the work that I did despite the fact that I was decried and ridiculed. 
Let us be practical and factual in regard to drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. If drilling does take place on the Reef, how many oil wells, if ever any are sunk, are likely to blow out? What has been the record of blow-outs throughout the world? People talk about the risk of oil drilling on the Reef but there is one chance probably in thousands that an oil well will blow out. 
That is the southern preservationists' view of the Reef. I am trying to illustrate to honourable senators how you can go off your rocker when you are not arguing on a sound basis. What do the people who talk about the possibility of one well in thousands blowing out say about the oil tankers that go up and down the Great Barrier Reef day after day, year in year out? 
-Where will the tankers be sent if they are not permitted to travel near the Reef? It needs only one tanker to get holed on the Great Barrier Reef to create a problem that would far transcend any oil well blow-out. 
A lot of silly nonsense is talked about destruction of the Reef, and that is just one illustration. I want to talk about another aspect of the Reef. The Reef is one of nature's great creations. But just as nature builds, so does nature destroy and rebuild. As I have said before, I can still remember the most beautiful area of coral that I have ever seen, with the greatest variety of form and the greatest variety of beautiful coral. This was around Tern Island and Bushy Island about 60 to 70 miles east of the city of Mackay. The corals which I saw there over 30 years ago are still as beautiful in my mind today as they were when I first saw them. When one stood on the Great Barrier Reef structure a few miles beyond the islands the corals were of such surpassing beauty that one could never forget them. I speak not only of the beauty of the corals, the colours and the form, but also of the glory of the fish that swam between the different crevasses in the Reef. 
The main structure of the Great Barrier Reef is very much like a sunken range of mountains with ravines and gorges on a small scale. It is in those that one can see the beauty of the coral and the marine life, such as the fish which really give the Great Barrier Reef something that one never forgets. I thought that this area was magnificent. Some years later I took to this area the late  Mr A.  E. Cole, the Director-General of the Queensland Government Tourist Bureau, who unfortunately was killed in a plane crash at Mackay while performing island and Reef business. But what had happened? You talk about destruction. All that beautiful coral looked like a heap of stones on a creek frontage. There was nothing of the coral left. Do you know why? 
Nature had destroyed it. It was destroyed completely when the tide was out in a period when 55 inches of rain fell in 3 days. That was a tragedy, but I believe that today the reef is as beautiful as ever it was. Nature builds; nature destroys; and nature rebuilds. A short time ago there was a great old pandemonium about the Crown of Thorns starfish. There is no doubt that it was eating and killing the coral. But once again, was it an act of nature? The infestation of the Crown of Thorns took place not only on the Great Barrier Reef but also in places like Fiji and in other coral reefs. 
We may not be doing something but nature is. Today the coral reefs which were once so thickly infested with the Crown of Thorns are recovering from that visitation. It is very nice to say that one must not cut off a piece of coral or one must not do something else, but from talks which I have had with people who have taken coral for certain reasons- they have pruned the coral in the right place and looked after it in the proper manner- I believe that the pruning of the coral reef can have the same effect as pruning in the garden. We may find in the ultimate that some of these practices will really improve the situation. So I think we have to be a bit sensible about this preservation business. I am one who stands very strongly for the preservation of beautiful things. I have, always appreciated the attitude taken by  Senator Mulvihill  in his fight for the preservation of our fauna. No one stands more than I do for the preservation of beautiful things. 
I feel that in the Great Barrier Reef we have possibly one of the very greatest of nature's attractions. It is of such infinite variety and of such dimension that I believe that, in spite of the damage that might be done here and there, in the overall, the Great Barrier Reef cannot be so very greatly destroyed. I believe that over the years the people of the State of Queensland have become conscious of the need to preserve the Reef. It is a lot of silly nonsense for the Australian Government to think that all knowledge about our assets in Queensland lies in Canberra and it should at least give us the benefit of realising that in Queensland, too, we have got sensible people. 
The Great Barrier Reef is a great asset with a great variety of features. I believe that its possibilities are immense. Properly handled and directed it has possibilities not only from the point of view of fishermen and collectors who want to treat what they collect in the proper way but also from the point of view of the tourist. When more modern methods of transportation are available- of course, that can be very costlypeople will realise what a wonderful place it is and more people will go to see the Great Barrier Reef, which, so far as I am concerned, is the greatest natural masterpiece in this country. It is known as the Great Barrier Reef because it is the biggest and the greatest barrier reef in the world. I am very keen on preservation but I want to be known that all the forces of preservation are not to be found in Canberra and in States other than Queensland. The Queensland Government is conscious of the need to look after this very great natural attraction. 
As the senior senator from the State of Queensland serving on this side of the chamber I feel that I should pay a tribute to the late  Senator Bert  Milliner. I knew him before he became a member of this chamber. I think I can say with the approval of everybody here that those of us who knew him looked upon him as being a very fine, cleanminded person. He was a person with a very happy personality and disposition. Wherever he went Bert Milliner was always felt to be a friend. He was sincere in his political beliefs. I also feel that he never carried his beliefs to the extent of showing any degree of animosity towards anyone on the other side. He never let the fact that he was on another side interfere with his splendid feeling towards his fellow man. 
I look upon him as being a person whom it could be truly said was a gentleman. He was a kind and, as I have said, friendly person. I feel that his departure from this chamber will be a loss to us as human beings who appreciate a decent, good living, fine person as a senator in this Australian Parliament. As a fellow Queenslander I very much regret his passing. He and I led the opposing sides at the last Senate election. As I have said, I will always remember him as being one who was prepared to pay a tribute to someone on the other side even if he was not a successful person. I join in the motion that has been moved for a vote of sincere sympathy to be passed on to his wife and family. I hope that their knowledge of the fact that he was thought of so highly by his fellow senators on both sides of the chamber will be at least some solace to them in their very sad loss. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
ls the Minister aware that the International Air Transport Association and the Australian Council of Trade Unions' Leisure Club, in association with the Australian Council of Trade Unions' New World Travel Agency have acted in concert to defy the Federal Department of Transport's instructions to all travel agents that they must not advertise, quote, or sell international air tickets at a cost lower than the cost approved by the Australian Government. 
Will the Minister investigate why the mostly foreigncontrolled International Air Transport Association and the Australian Council of Trade Unions' travel agency are able to break Government decisions when all other Australian travel agents are compelled to comply with the Government 's instructions. 
-You do not remember which person; is that the position? 

 Mr Karidis, Of course I do not remember which person. It is too long ago. I remember what happened yesterday and the day before. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I could not remember. 
-You say you do not remember the reason why the negotiations were cut off in the middle of December and you were thwarted in what was the prospect of gaining $ 100m commission; is that the position? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I will ask your permission to refer to my counsel. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I believe; and I can place my memory a little bit now, what has been explained to my counsellor-  Mr Khemlani,  as I repeated on my statement, he has had a bother to arrange the loan on the other side because the commission had to be paid from the other end, and I repeat again that's the reason we couldn 't finalise yet. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, repeat the question. I am trying please to tell you: Make it a bit more plain. We don't have to waste too much time for you. 

 Mr Karidis, He didn't told me that,  Mr President,  no. 

 Mr Karidis, No. One thing I do know, the commission had to be paid from the other end, which make it very clear from  Mr Connor  to me, plain to  Mr Khemlani  also at the meeting we had with  Mr Connor, Mr Khemlani  and me. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I couldn't remember the time and the date because it is 8 months approximately, or 6 months, what it is, this deal was gone on. 

 Mr Karidis, Yes, please. 

 Mr Karidis, As I say on my statement, I been introduced- I am sorry,  Mr President-  I had been introduced by  Mr Cameron,  a friend of mine, a very good friend. He has introduced me to  Mr Connor  some time, as I stated in my statement. Now, we went to his office and we discussed it, and that's all. 

 Mr Karidis, Me,  Mr Connor, Mr Cameron,  my solicitor next door who is here now, and I could not remember if there was anybody else. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I seek it to apply to all of them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-This debate on the Budget brings us to think about the situation that has developed in Australia at the present time. I think that the general opinion of the Australian people is that this country is in a real mess. Those of us who heard  Senator James  McClelland, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, speak today must admire and congratulate him for the courage with which in his speech he faced up to the problems. I must say that I think that he has impressed people since he has been a Minister by the honesty and forthrightness which he has shown to this nation. I have read about the Australian Labor Party looking for new leaders. I do not think that it should worry about  Mr Hawke.  If the Labor Party had a leader like  Senator James  McClelland it would not be in the mess in which it is today. 
There is no doubt that the two main problems that are plaguing this country today are inflation and unemployment.  Senator James  McClelland said today that the unions have played a great part in helping to bring about a lot of the difficulties we are experiencing. I think that their demands have been excessive. They have really gone to the extreme in their demands. The other aspect that has brought about the present difficulties is the extravagance of this Government. There is no doubt about that. From the way in which the Government has thrown money around in certain sections one would think that it wanted to get rid of the money in case it caught some disease like the plague from holding it. The Government has thrown money here and there in a most odd sort of way. The result of that has been that today we are in real trouble. There is no questioning the fact that this country will have to face up to the difficulties. 
The economy is at such a stage that, according to the Budget, the Government is quite prepared to accept an inflation rate of 16 per cent. The rate of inflation has been increasing ever since the Government has been in office. When the Labor Government took office in 1972 from the Liberal-Country Party Government the inflation rate, if I remember rightly, was about 4 per cent. That shows how it has shot up. What probably does not strike the ordinary citizen is that inflation cuts into his savings. The Government seems to be quite satisfied with the present rate of inflation of 16 per cent. It means that for every $ 100 a person has saved he can buy $ 16 worth of goods less than when he originally saved the money. Continued inflation has a deteriorating effect on people's savings. 
It is no good the Government trying to make out that inflation is an international disease that it has caught. Most other countries have suffered from inflation as a result of very high increases in the price of oil. The oil gangsters of the Middle East countries raised the price of oil by an exorbitant percentage. But we in Australia- thanks to the promotion and the encouragement that the Liberal-Country Party Government gave to the exploration for oil- are in the lucky position - 
It was long before John Gorton. I have been in this chamber for almost 26 years and I can tell. the honourable senator that such encouragement was given even before John Gorton. Because of the encouragement that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government gave, we are in a lucky position so far as oil is concerned. This Government has chased practically every national major oil seeker out of Australia, and it will take a long time to bring those people back. Only a government in which those people have confidence will bring them back to Australia. I well recall- I am sure that  Senator Wright,  who has been here for the same time as I have, will recall this- a previous Leader of the Opposition, the late  Senator McKenna,  really going to town about helping people to find oil. He suggested that the Government should find it. If the Government had set about finding oil we would still be looking for it. We would have spent many hundreds of millions of dollars and probably would not have found anything. The Government of the day gave great encouragement to people to find oil. It is because of that that Australia is in the lucky position in which it is today. 
It is rather interesting to hear honourable senators on the Labor side of the chamber saying that it is the international situation that has caused inflation and unemployment. This rather amuses me when I remember arguments put forward by the Labor Party just a few years ago. In November 1972, under the Liberal-National Country Party Government, unemployment reached 88 000. The display and the arguments that came from the then Opposition- the Australian Labor Party- were terrific. Members of the Labor Party said that such a rate of unemployment was terrible. When unemployment exceeded the 100 000 mark, they called that disgraceful and said that the Liberal-Country Party Government was the worst government in the world for allowing unemployment to reach that level. I can remember, at that time, that unemployment in the United States of America, Britain and so on had reached about 5 or 6 per cent. When that argument was used in this chamber, what did the Labor senators say? They said: That has nothing to do with what happens in Australia. It bears no relationship'. All of a sudden, we find that inflation and unemployment in Australia are influenced by overseas trends. What a change has taken place. It is a great change in the Labor Party's thinking. Its argument is the complete opposite of what it argued when it was in Opposition. 
The Government, in preparing the Budget, realised that it had got Australia into a mess. It set about trying to recover the situation. The Government has acknowledged this.  Senator James  McClelland admitted today that mistakes have been made. The Government has said that it will encourage private industry and so on. I believe that what is proposed in the Budget will not be sufficient to restore the confidence of private enterprise to undertake proper development which, in turn, would provide more employment. What is the situation today? Because of the chaotic conditions- unions are running mad and the Labor Party had shown a weakness in this respect until people such as  Senator James  McClelland came on the scene- companies are making much smaller profits. 
I know that it is quite the thing for Labor parliamentarians to snarl about people making profits. What they have to remember is that if people in private industry do not make sufficient profit they do not have a sufficient surplus to provide any further development to upgrade their industries. It is because of that loss of confidence in the Government which private industry has at the moment that development is not being undertaken. That is one of the reasons why the unemployment level is not declining. Once the Government has killed the incentive of people, organisations and companies, it will find that it has dealt a very serious blow to the development of Australia. If we do not have development in the private industry sector we will experience increasing unemployment. Today two of the big mining companies- one of them is Mount Isa Mines Ltd in north Queensland- announced a large reduction in profits. It is all right to say that those companies made a good profit. The type of work in which those companies are involved requires large sums of money to cany out further development. 
Honourable senators opposite have spoken about Australian ownership. In my city of Mackay I have occupied various positions and have endeavoured to promote development. We have great coalfields in the area. For about 25 years we tried to get Australian companies to come in and dig for coal. No Australian company was interested. Australian companies did not have sufficient capital, of course. Now those companies have even less capital because of the way in which this country is being run. Overseas companies developed these fields which are just south of Mackay, at Goonyella and places such as that. Those companies put about $300m into each of the projects before any coal is produced. Wages were about $70 a week, but when these terrible overseas companies came into the Mackay region the men received double what they normally would have received. They received about $140 a week. Do honourable senators opposite think that the overseas companies were squeezing Australians by doubling the pay of the workers? 
Yes, they take the overseas money. Since then, the wages have risen considerably. The Australian Government taxes the profits of these overseas companies. Mention has been made of leaving the coal in the ground. With the advances that are being made in the generation of power- such as the use of uranium and, no doubt, solar power- if we leave the coal in the ground we might be told in the future to leave it there forever because it is not wanted. Another aspect that we have to keep in mind is that coalfields in Siberia and Manchuria are far more extensive than the great coalfields we have in Australia. Once money is put into the development of those areas we might price ourselves out of the market if we use tactics in order to squeeze people and show that we do not want to encourage people to invest in and develop our areas. Those 2 areas are much closer to one of our great consumers- Japan. The transport costs to Japan would be much less and we might easily find Japan telling us to keep our coal. In these matters we have to be careful that we do not overstep the mark. Private enterprise creates a great proportion of the employment in Australia and this Government should give it more encouragement. The Government says that it has given some concessions but what has it done in other directions? It has increased postal charges considerably. It also has increased telephone charges and there will be increases in petrol costs. Are these increases not costs to industry and business? Of course they are. On the one hand the Government gives industry and business a small concession but adds extra charges in other ways. What a shrewd method the Government used in bringing forward the increased postal and telephone charges. It did not introduce them in the Budget; it had the organisations that it set up bring them in a week or a few weeks beforehand. 
Of course. The point is that the Government engaged in a very snide operation by bringing in the increases in this way so that they will not be looked upon as Budget increases. Just fancy the cost of posting a letter going up from 10c to 18c and the cost of a telephone call rising to the present price.- 1 note that  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Police and Customs, is making notes. He is to follow me in this debate. He is one Minister who has a down to earth realisation about things. I know that he has to argue in certain ways because he is a Minister but I always have had a high regard for him. He will recall, as I do, that only a few years ago when the Labor Party sat on this side of the chamber it put on a great performance about wanting to knock over increases in postal charges which were introduced in a Liberal-Country Party Government Budget. The Labor Party then had the idea of really causing havoc to the Budget and possibly forcing an election. Members of the Labor Party were incensed at that time during the debate that it brought on because members of the Democratic Labor Party did not support them although they had talked about postal charges in other Budgets. 
Some honourable senators on the Government side will recall that occasion and will remember the amount by which postage was increased at that time. It probably increased by lc or something like that. But this Government has increased postage by almost 100 per cent and thinks it is quite all right. The inconsistency of the arguments put up by the Labor Party in Opposition then and its silence now in supporting these terrific increases really makes me wonder. If I were a bloke who drank alcohol I would wonder whether I had been listening correctly. Being a teetotaller I clearly remember the debate that took place then. 
However, business and industry have been slugged in this way and so have the ordinary citizens been slugged. Once again we will find that there will be repercussions from these increases throughout private industry and there will be a detrimental effect on employment. One example that has been mentioned is the Christmas card trade. No doubt this increase will nearly kill that trade. 
I send you one at times because you are a good bloke. If people ceased to send Christmas cards the Government will find that the printers who print those cards will have that much less work and the shops who sell them will have fewer sales. It will find that this will affect the people who make the envelopes. So the effect will go on right through the economy. The Government may think that these things do not have much effect but they do affect people detrimentally. These heavy increases in postal and telephone charges and the increase in petrol costs will be a charge on business and industry. They all will have a very detrimental effect. 
The thing that amazes me about the Labor Party is the most unusual way that it talks about saving expenditure. It is very interesting to note how it cuts down expenditure. It has cut expenditure on medical research this year from $8m to $4m. I know that the Government has said that the vote for medical research will go up next year; but have honourable senators ever thought of anything so serious, so damaging or so stupid? There are organised teams engaged in medical research and if the funds allocated for it are cut in half for one year what will happen to that team? Its members will disappear. Probably they will go overseas and find jobs elsewhere.- If the Government increases this vote next year, as it says, how will it get those researchers back? It is an established fact that such research work is a matter of continuity and persistence over a period of time. That is the way to bring about the best results. Research into ways of saving the lives of people from cancer, heart disease and so on is more important than some of the things for which the Labor Government is maintaining expenditure. It really dazzles me to think that the Government will do such things. 
The vote for the anti-smoking campaign has been reduced from $292,000 to $75,000. 1 think all honourable senators must respect  Dr Everingham,  the Minister for Health, who had the courage to speak about the damage that smoking and drinking alcohol do to the general health and minds of our people. We owe him a debt for the way he has spoken on both these questions. But we find that the Government has cut down expenditure on both these aspects of medical research. One would think, surely, that the health and welfare of people in the future, and ways of preventing them from getting things like cancer and heart disease, would be very important. Apparently these things do not appeal to the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitiam,  because they do not have a glossy appearance like some of the glamour girls he has around him. 
For instance, the amount this year for art purchases is $5.8m. Honourable senators will remember that in his early stages he bought this piece of shickery art called  Blue Poles  for US$2m. Where is it hanging? The Government has spent millions of dollars more since and now is going to spend another $5. 8m. I am keen on literature, music and art but there is a limit to what the Government should do when it is supposed to be short of funds. Who sees these art productions? Somebody told me that the Prime Minister has  Blue Poles  hanging in Kirribilli House where he sometimes camps at the expense of the people. I do not know where that painting is. If these pieces of art are kept in Canberra how many Australian people will see them? 
Yes, 300 000 people saw one big painting. 
Yes, in Melbourne, but how often will the people be able to see it? It will be stuck here in Canberra and how many people come to this city to see these things? We also know that last year and this year $2,300,000 has been voted for International Women's Year and for the gabble that is going on around this place. Anybody who saw  Monday Conference  the other night would wonder just why those women are here. 
I do not give a hang what  Senator Martin  thinks. These people who talk like that just make you sick and they make the average woman in Australia sick. I am talking about these women yabbers. That is what I call them. They are no more in touch with the thinking of the average woman in Australia than Gough Whitlam is in touch with the Australian people. I have talked to the staff around Parliament House who work in their offices. 
I am a bachelor and can look on and see most of the game, but when I talk to them they agree with me. The people who work in the offices of Labor Party members say that it is a lot of rubbish. I cannot think of anything more divisive than these people talking about everybody being equal. The way they are talking, one would think that there was a great division between men and women. As one who has always had a very high appreciation of women because of the wonderful mother I had, it disgusts me to hear the sort of nonsense they go on with. We have given so much- more than $3m over 2 years- for this silly nonsense that they go on with. What do we find?  Mr Whitlam  plays up his glossy girls. Germaine Greer got $100,000 to make a picture on reproduction, I think it was. Germaine Greer was a married woman at one stage. What did she do about reproduction? I have not been married. What has this women Reid, who is the chief adviser to the Prime Minister on women's affairs, done for the money that she is getting? She talks around a bit. She is famous for the lecture that she gave to university students here about how to bring on an orgasm without having intercourse- the most disgusting thing I have ever read. That is the type of woman who is appointed as the chief adviser on women's affairs. She would have no more in common with the average woman in Australia than would this table. 

 - Mr President, the allocation to this woman Reid is in the Budget. I read in the newspaper today that  Mrs Wilenski  has been given a job as Director of the new Equal Opportunity Branch of the Public Service at a salary of $17,000.  Mrs Wilenski  's husband was a former private secretary to  Mr Whitlam.  Between the two of them they will now receive an income of $1,000 a week. In view of the current situation, one would have thought that there may have been somebody else who needed the job. But, no, it was a case of jobs for the girls. When I think of the cut-back in expenditure on things such as medical research - 
It is all right. I am speaking, so mind your own business. The honourable senator may be a good cricketer. Then, of course, expenditure on research into methods of inducing people to cut down on smoking has been cut. But what of the glossy girls? No fear, they must be left untouched. 
We hear a great deal about the proposed expenditure on education. What steps has the Government taken to see that the huge amount of money that will be spent on education this year, $l,900m-odd, will be used to educate people? 
-I know that. What are they doing? They are given the money. They can find out. In a recent edition of the  Australian  Professor Crisp said that most children today cannot spell, cannot write, cannot add up, and so on. Another educationist, Betty Archdale, says that half of our teachers should not be doing that job. In other article another man talks about illiteracy and he quotes some of the things that university students have written. They cannot write; they cannot add up; they cannot spell.  Mr Beazley,  the Minister for Education, said that the Queensland education system was the best because it is more old-fashioned. 

 - Mr Beazley said that publicly. If what he says is correct, heaven help the children in the other States. I can tell honourable senators that many students in Queensland cannot add up and cannot write. I have tested them. I have asked: 'What country is New York City in?' They cannot tell you. I have asked: 'Where is Suva?' They cannot tell you. I have asked: Where is Vietnam?' They cannot tell you. I have asked: 'Where is Penang?' They cannot tell you. It is on these people that we are spending this money. What are we getting for the money we are spending? We are not getting a proper education system. The money is going down the drain. An education system has been set up, but we are not getting true value. 
In conclusion, let me say that  Mr Whitlam  has made a great fuss about effecting economies. He wants parliamentarians to travel economy class, but what does  Mr Whitlam  intend to do? He does not intend to travel economy class. He is going to travel by VIP aircraft. Members of the Labor Party burst out laughing when he said that he intends to travel by VIP aircraft for security reasons. Who does he think is going to shoot him while he is travelling around Australia? Do honourable senators think that he runs a risk? Do honourable senators think that others do not run a risk if he does? We find that parliamentarians and others- I do not know who is included in the word 'others '-will spend $2,830,000 this year on air travel, but the Prime Minister, with his VIP travel, and a few others will spend $1,269,460 this year. I know what a lot of honourable senators opposite think about this matter. I think that the Prime Minister is absolutely hypocritical on the matter. There is no reason why he cannot travel economy class with the rest of us. If it is good enough for us, it is good enough for him. 
-Yes. The trouble is that  Senator Poyser  knows as well as I do - 
-I did pick it up.  Mr Whitlam  does not want to travel economy class because he is a snob. As was said by one Labor parliamentarian and as another parliamentarian said to me, he is the most vain, the most arrogant and the most conceited man in Australia. I am very glad to know that  Senator Poyser  has got sufficient sense in relation to this matter. I heard his interjection before.  Mr Whitlam  's suggestion that he cannot travel economy class for security reasons is ludicrous. In conclusion, the position is this - 
This is a real conclusion because it is a good conclusion: If an election were to be held at the moment this Government would be wiped out of existence, and  Mr Whitlam  would go with it. 
I am amazed that this debate is taking place this morning. It is news to me, a member of the Opposition, that the Opposition is working at the moment to reject any particular piece of legislation in order to cause a double dissolution. 
No. I have sufficient political nouse to be able to smell what is going on. The Press has created a certain atmosphere but that does not mean that it is talking with an authoritative voice. I noticed that one member of the Press was in the Press gallery while  Senator Hall  spoke but dashed off when  Senator Wright  spoke. He is the journalist who wrote in the Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  that over a period of years I had bullied the Liberal Party into re-endorsing me. When I spoke to him and said that it was untrue he said that others had said it. I think he is the man who writes under the name Cassandra. 
Yes. It was untrue. I always have put my case clearly before the Liberal Party selection committee and have always won. The newspapers print things that create an atmosphere and they try to find out what is going on. I know of no move at the present time to knock back any legislation. All this talk is a lot of theory and nonsense at the moment. These situations take place suddenly. If something happens and there is a feeling that there has to be an election, that is when an election comes about. Generally it happens suddenly. I know of no moves in my Party at the present time to bring about such a result. 
The other matter with which I want to deal was dealt with by  Senator Wright.  The Constitution gives us a right. The fact that that right has not been exercised during the life of a Parliament does not take away the right of that Parliament. What was written into the Constitution remains as long as that clause or right is in the Constitution. No one can claim that a Senate or a Parliament is acting undemocratically if it carries out the rights the Constitution gives it.  Senator Bunton  referred to  Sir Robert  Menzies. I notice that all leaders, when they attain leadership, like to be in authority. They never like anyone to stop them in their tracks. I know that I have had that trouble even in my own Party. I can recall the days when  Sir Robert  Menzies did not like my opposing some individual measure. Unfortunately, in human nature there is the characteristic that when people come into a top position they like to feel very powerful; they do not like anyone to stand in their way. I think it can be said that the present Prime Minister is such a person. He likes to think that he is a bit above even the supreme power. Some of the members of his own Party have said to me at times: 'Of course, he can walk on water'. When people have such lofty ideas of power, one realises that they do not like being frustrated. When all is said and done, the working of the Parliament comes back to the basis of democracy, which is the people. If the people have the right to express themselves at any time when the Parliament feels that things have got to a certain state, I do not think anyone can really talk about the Parliament not acting in a democratic way. I feel that this whole matter is a mountain which has been blown up. At the present time it has no basis in fact. I think that all we can do is wait and see how things go. 
If the Parliament feels that the country is in such a state that the people should again have the right of decision, then constitutionally and democratically I cannot see anything wrong with that. As one who has sat in this chamber now for nearly 26 years, I can recall that when this side was in government year after year the Australian Labor Party moved amendments to relation to the Budget. As an individual I can never remember members of our Parties taking umbrage and saying that it was wrong for the then Opposition to move such amendments. The fact that the amendments were defeated did not make any difference to the fact that the then Opposition moved those amendments. I can recall the then  Senator Murphy-  a distinguished legal man and Queen's Council- as Leader of the Opposition having some amendments to the postal regulations thrown out. If I recall clearly, at that time he said that the Senate had the right to reject any Bill whatever. Now the position has been reversed. If what was said then was correct, it remains correct. As far as I am concerned, he was correct. I stand here and say that under the Constitution the Senate has the right to do whatever it thinks is best for this country in the acceptance or rejection of any legislation. 
-My concern in this matter, as I related to the Senate the other day, arose from newspaper information initially. I was unaware that a man had been held in gaol incommunicado for a period of 3 months until the newspapers revealed the fact. Subsequently, I was informed of what had been related to my informant from other people that the man was under a death sentence. I sought to have that confirmed in the space of three or four hours available to me. I was unable to get that confirmation. I raised the matter on the basis as appears in  Hansard,  to get information from the Minister as to whether or not that allegation was true. That is what the  Hansard  record reveals. The Minister has sought the information and he has given the information. I assure him that I will not be intimidated into being silent when there are growing numbers of people whose imprisonment in Yugoslavia and other countries is becoming known and the inactivity of this Government is also becoming known. I hope that the Minister will be active and that he will be persistent. But I do not believe that he will achieve the results which everyone wants to have achieved by pussy-footing with a Communist government. I would hope that he would protest publicly, vigorously and persistently because it is only by shaming these governments by public exposure of what they are doing that we are likely to get results. That has not been an attitude which the Minister has been taking. 
Debates on Bills of this type will always bring up arguments and, of course, each side will always try to justify its stand. I think history shows that whenever a government has brought about a redistribution it has been to the advantage of that government. That is usually the case. We have heard quite a lot of talk today about electorates being lopsided and about those electorates that are lopsided being lopsided in favour of those who sit on this side of the chamber. When one comes to look at the record I think that one will find that the Australian Labor Party has easily won the day in the matter of lopsided electorates. I think members of the Labor Party are past masters at the job of making electorates lopsided. The reason why they have not featured so much in this respect in recent times is that they have not been in office in so many areas for quite a long time. 
Honourable senators opposite and their colleagues have not had much of a chance recently to practice the making of electorates lopsided, but we are not the past masters that members of the Labor Party are when they are in office. The situation in the State of Queensland has been mentioned. To hear some of the speeches that are made in regard to the position in my home State of Queensland one would think that some terrible things are being done there. If one looks at the history of what a Labor government did when it was in office in Queensland I think one will find that it shows that the present Liberal-Country Party Government in Queensland is just an amateur in the rigging of electorates in comparison with Labor governments. 
I well remember the Labor Party bringing in a redistribution proposal in Queensland. What did it do? It more or less put a column of seats on the western border- I think it involved ten or twelve seats- that had no more than 4000 voters in each. In the coastal areas, where the people were voting for the same type of political party as is to be found in the Opposition in this chamber, the seats ran to about 12 000 voters in many cases. Of course, as usual, there was a hue and cry about those rigged electorates, but did the Labor government weaken and say: 'That is right. We must change the situation'? Of course it did not. It went ahead and, as a result, was able to maintain itself in  office  for a considerable period of time. There is no question that this practice went on for many years when the Labor Party was in office. The Labor Party held those seats over a period of time because they were western seats and in those days Labor received a strong vote in the western area. A change of politics has taken place in Queensland and some of those seats today do not return Labor parliamentarians. So it can be seen that even though one may rig seats in a certain way the complexion and the politics of those seats can change over a period of time. 
In the present circumstances Queensland has been featured as a terrible example of the rigging of seats. It may be remembered that whenever the proceedings of this chamber were being broadcast during last December honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber took the opportunity of bashing the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and talking about rigged seats and all the rest of it. There was to be an election at about that time. I remember speaking on one of those occasions. I remember referring to the fact that I came from the cyclone area of Queensland and saying that whenever a cyclone blows one does not look for a ricketty old building in which to obtain shelter but that one gets into the strongest type of building that one can and make sure that one is safe. I said that the people of Queensland would rally behind the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  because he was the strong type of leader behind whom people preferred to shelter. What was the result of the election? Surely honourable senators will recall the result of the election on that occasion. As the results were coming through we heard seat after seat toppling in the Government's favour. Seats that it was thought could never possibly be won by the Government of Queensland were won by it. Even the Leader of the Labor Party lost his seat and the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party lost his seat. The strongly held Labor seats of previous elections, such as the seat now held by  Mr Burns,  who is the present Leader of the Labor Party, scraped home but not by very much. 
There has been a lot of talk about the rigging of seats. I remember reading an article in the Australian newspaper that if the seats had not been gerrymandered, as was said to be the case, the Labor Party may not have won one seat. Unfortunately for the Government some of the seats have Labor constituents packed into them, making them solid Labor-seats. As a result they were able to withstand the cyclone that took place in the electoral field in Queensland last December. The Labor Party was decimated, so that out of the 74 seats, or something like that, in the Queensland Parliament it now holds the small number of eleven and some of those were won by a whisker. So, despite all the talk about gerrymanders and everything else, it can be seen that very often seats are designed in such a way that even the Labor Party can be grateful for the fact that some of them are loaded in its favour. If that had not been the case we might have found that Queensland was a State that did not have an Opposition. That is how close it came. Despite all that was said in this chamber on that occasion by honourable senators opposite the people of Queensland showed that they were well and truly satisfied with their Government and very dissatisfied with the Labor Party. I think the history and the record of the Labor Party in office show that it is a Party that should say less about the rigging of electorates than any other Party in Australia. 
There is no doubt that the purpose of the introduction of these electoral Bills is not to induce a puritanical state of mind or to gauge the true feelings of the people but in the hope that the Labor Party may be able to hold on to office. I think there is general agreement amongst the members of the Labor Government at the present time that if there were an election today they would be decimated, just as they were decimated in the election in Queensland last December. Irrespective of how the electorates are divided up that would be the situation that would prevail on this occasion. I think that the members of the Labor Party who retained their seats after such an election would be so scarce about this chamber that one would have to ask: Have you seen a Labor Party member of Parliament today?' That is the feeling of the nation at the moment. I think that all the talk about the electoral boundaries being gerrymandered will not save the Labor Party on this occasion. I do not think that it would retain office even if it were to get these electoral redistribution Bills through the Parliament. 
So far as the redistribution of electorates is concerned, I think we have to take into account more than just the number of people in an electorate.  Senator Bunton  brought forth some aspects of what was considered to be right in earlier days. It is not just a matter of numbers; it is also a matter of various other aspects, such as communications, the area, the industries, the productivity and so on. It is all very nice for the people who live in cities to say that we must have the principle of one vote one value. For a start, it is impossible to achieve that objective. If we were to divide up the electorates on that basis tonight, within a matter of a few weeks they would be thrown out of adjustment because of the changing populations. There is no way that the principle of one vote one value can be maintained continually. A government may aim to hold somewhere near that principle, but it cannot maintain it in exact proportions. Once the electorates move out of balance, the whole basis of the argument is destroyed. 
It is very nice for the people in the bigger cities to say that they want to see the implementation of the principle of one vote, one value. But one has to consider the fact that we have industries in country areas which need a reasonable representation in Parliament. If they do not have reasonable representation in Parliament, it is quite easy for the Parliament of the day, being loaded with representatives from the big city areas, to give less recognition to these rural areas with a consequent undermining of the value of the industries in those areas. While Government supporters may not like to believe it, the rural areas of this country are still of tremendous importance to Australia. They are not only of great importance to Australia in regard to productivity. They are also of great importance to Australia in regard to food and food is of value on a world basis. We know that this is one of the very scarce commodities in many areas of the world today. Therefore, we have to give strong consideration to proper representation of those areas. 
It could well be on the basis that Labor Party senators are speaking, that is, that we must have the principle of one vote one value, that the representation of those areas with such valuable industries could be diminished because their voice in this Parliament would be so small that they could well be neglected by the government of the day to a very great extent. Do not tell me that cannot happen because it can. Over a period of time during the life of this Government we have seen certain industries practically ruined or their programs of development have been delayed considerably. Let me take as an example the mining industry, the search for oil and so on. What is happening in the search for oil? This is a most important matter. If we do not find more oil, this country can be placed in a very serious situation in paying for oil from overseas sources. This is just one aspect of the argument. The areas in which oil drilling is carried on or in which oil wells are discovered are generally not great centres of population. Therefore, the people living in those areas do not have very strong representation in the Parliament. Thus, there is some need for electorates to be divided in such a way that industries in those sparsely populated areas can be represented in the Parliament. It is most essential that they should have a voice in the Parliament. I think that in bringing forward these points,  Senator Bunton  has done a very good job. He is asking honourable senators to realise that it is a case of members of Parliament representing more than people. They represent industries, communication, production and so on. 
Let me deal with communication. How will there be easy communication in electorates of a terrific size in comparison with city electorates? It used to be said of Eddie Ward who represented West Sydney in the Parliament that he could walk around his electorate probably in an afternoon. That cannot be done in the rural areas because they are very extensive in size. There is no question that as a consequence members representing city areas, can service their electorates much more easily than can members of Parliament who service large country electorates. Under the Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill there is to be an electorate by the name of Flynn. It runs right around the whole area of Queensland and is to be represented by one elected member from Queensland. Can honourable senators imagine how an honourable senator representing such an area as will be contained in that electorate of Flynn could possibly-- 
Can honourable senators imagine the elected member giving representation and service to the people of that vast electorate of Flynn? 
I will come to that. Can honourable senators imagine the difficulties of a member servicing the people of this vast electorate in comparison to those of an honourable member servicing a city electorate? There is no equality in that situation and nobody could possibly suggest that there is. Let me make some comments in regard to the electorate of Kalgoorlie compared to the proposed electorate of Flynn. I think it can be said fairly that the population of Queensland is very well distributed. I make this comparison with the electorate of Kalgoorlie: Whilst the electorate of Kalgoorlie constitutes a very big area, it would not have the spread and diversity of population that the proposed electorate of Flynn in Queensland would have. 
There is an amazing distribution of population in Queensland. Queensland has a very well distributed population. We have better decentralisation in Queensland than in possibly any other of the larger States. I think that this provides an indication of the fact that over a period of years governments of the day have worked with this in view. As a consequence, our railway system, road system and everything else have brought about this distribution of population. Thus, the proposed electorate of Flynn would have so many points for a parliamentarian to service in comparison with a city electorate that I believe that any comparison would be weighted to a disgraceful degree in favour of the city electorate. Any honourable senator who said it was a fair distribution is putting his head in the sand and does not realise the true situation. 
Once again, the compliment goes to  Senator Bunton  for having brought forward this aspect: We are talking about equal electorates in the Senate. But if we are to be honest about it, why do we not have equal electorates in the Senate? In the Senate we as senators represent different numbers of people according to the States that we represent. 
I am not speaking about  Senator Field.  Whilst his appointment was not in accord with my idea of what should have happened, at the same time he was appointed and nobody can say anything against his appointment because it was made in accordance with the right of a State government. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order!  Senator, I  think that you should return to deal with the subject matter of the Bills. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, the suggestion was thrown up - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I know. 
What I am trying to say is that the right of a State to appoint a senator is given to that State in the Constitution. I do not think that anybody can legally say anything against the appointment. Let me return to my argument of senators representing populations. Those senators who represent the States of New South Wales and Victoria each represent more people than any of us do. So why is there not a row kicked up about those honourable senators representing more people than we do if Government senators really believe in this principle of one vote one value. Surely  Senator Hall,  who spoke a while ago, must hang his head in shame every time he passes me in the corridor because he is one of 10 senators who represent a State with only 1 216 000 people. In my State, which is a wonderfully distributed State- much better than his- our 10 senators represent 1 968 000 people. So as he passes  Senator McAuliffe, Senator Sheil,  myself or any other of our Queensland senators in this building he must feel ashamed to think that he has been elected to this chamber to represent so few people. He is the one who believes in equal representation. This is the point that was brought forward by  Senator Bunton  and I have taken it up. It should remain in our minds vividly in the Senate. 
Let us remember this point also: This chamber was established in this way because of the fear of the densely populated States that they would be out-voted by the more densely populated States. There would not be an Australian parliament today if it were not for the Senate. The Constitution is really wrapped around the Senate because of that reason. An Australian Parliament was formed only because each State had equal representation in the Senate. That is the basis of it. There was no argument at that time about having more senators in the more densely populated States than in the less densely populated States. Have I ever heard Labor Party senators say that the more densely populated States should have more senators than the less densely populated States? Of course they do not, and if that is carried to the ultimate the same thing should persist in this chamber. If we are genuine, let us consider our own situation. The argument about one man, one vote, must strike home to those honourable senators who believe in that principle but who come from the less populated States. Having heard  Senator Hall  give a lecture on some honourable senators not having the correct attitude to this matter, when in future he passes me in the corridor I should like him to bow to me as a senator who represents in this chamber more people than he does. 
In the matter of a redistribution like this we have to consider a wide variety of aspects. We have to realise that people play an important part in the electorates according to what they are doing and what they are producing and in the light of communication. In some electorates communication is a very difficult problem, and it is much more difficult for parliamentarians to serve some country electorates than to serve city electorates. Anybody who suggests that a country electorate can be served as easily as a city electorate is talking through his hat. Those who live in the city electorates have a much easier job than people living in the country electorates. The argument put forward by Government speakers who have taken part in the debate to justify the principle of one man, one vote, is just a lot of nonsense. That ideal can never be carried out to the full, and once something cannot be carried out 100 per cent it is not complete. In those circumstances it is not possible to get a perfect distribution for everybody, but we are all Australians and we should ensure that people in the less populated areas have strong enough representation in this Parliament to enable their views to be put forward so that their industries, their activities, their businesses and their mode of living can be considered. 
In the area from which I come the great industry is the sugar industry, and I remember the opposition that came from the southern areas to the fixing of a decent price for sugar. If the interests of the sugar industry had not been looked after at that time by the various members of the Parliament, where would that industry be today? The industry today is of great value to this country, and has been over a period of years, both in war and in peace. Today it is one of the greatest industries in the country, bringing in valuable overseas exchange. It is only because they have sufficient representation that industries such as the sugar industry have their voices heard in the Parliament in a strong enough way to enable them to overcome in the long run southern opposition. I well remember the days when the southern parliamentarians wanted cheap sugar but the northerners had to pay high prices for the goods produced by the well protected secondary industries. 
I believe that the claim for one man, one voting value, is nonsense. I believe that the only fair system for the people of Australia is to have electorates worked out in such a way that sufficient representation is given to people who work in the various industries which operate for the benefit of this country. Electorates should be designed on the basis of sufficient area to enable them to be served by their parliamentarians so that they have proper representation in the national Parliament. I said before that as senators surely we talk with our tongues in our cheeks when we say that parliamentarians must come to this chamber representing equal numbers of people. That principle does not operate in this chamber- let us be consistent- nor has it reflected against the progress of this country that this chamber has not operated on that basis. I think electoral distribution is a matter of common sense and fair play to the people of Australia generally. As far as that is concerned, if the principle of one man, one voting value, had been adopted when the setting up of the Commonwealth Government was first proposed, I make bold to say that this Australian Parliament would not exist today. There would have been no Senate and, because of that, there would have been no Australian Parliament. Let us be sensible; let us be fair. I believe that these proposals should be rejected. 
In relation to the latest disclosures on the loans affair, does the Leader of the Government not agree with our colleague,  Senator Hall,  who said on 16 July that something would have to be done to find out whether the Government is culpable or whether it is blameless? Does the Minister further agree with  Senator Hall's  suggestion that the Opposition should adjourn the Senate until 1 January next year and let the people decide in the meantime? 
-The Whip of the Labor Party, like another senator, goes to bed thinking about nickel fields. Would he like me to tell the story of how his colleague got it? The secretary of the  President,  when he was the Whip, asked about the purchase of shares which she could have sold at a profit but did not. That is the story. 
-No I did not. And 1 will challenge  Senator Poyser  on that. I will take him on in public on it. 
I have listened to some very interesting and amusing debate this evening. I heard a very amusing speech from  Senator Hall. 
-I did nothing of the kind.  Mr President,  that is a reflection on myself. It is not true. I ask  Senator Poyser  to withdraw that statement. 
It is not true. As I said, I listened with amused interest to some of the arguments put forward by  Senator Hall.  He trotted out the very much used argument that the matter of convention stands and that this Senate should not have done what it did tonight. The position is- it is simple as can be- that the Constitution is what this Senate is based upon. The people who wrote the Constitution spent a long time in working out how they would create the Parliament in the federal sphere. 
-A11 right  Senator Hall.  I will be there. I just want to talk about it. I want to say this: The Constitution gives this Senate the right. Let me recall to Government senators and also to  Senator Hall  and  Senator Bunton  that  Senator Murphy  who was Leader of the Labor Government in this chamber fought strenuously to knock over certain financial legislation that came into this chamber and said very clearly that the Senate had this right- an absolute right. What is more,  Mr Whitlam  supported that contention. I want to add that it is nonsense to say that because this was done today it is likely to happen every year, and so on. The responsibility - 

 -Mr President, I take that as a provocation. It is something which should be withdrawn. I have never used a dead man for anything. 
I did nothing of the sort.  Mr President,  I was accused by  Senator Poyser  of using a dead man. I ask for a withdrawal of that. 
Yes, but I do not go around using dead men. 
Do you not want to hear an argument? Apparently Labor senators do not believe in free speech. I have been in this chamber for a long time. When do I interrupt honourable senators opposite? 
I do not interrupt. The argument that is being used about the Senate not having this right is nonsense. The fact that  Senator Murphy  used this power to knock over a money Bill, which cost the then Government $70m in loss of revenue - 

 Senator Georges- Yes, perhaps I ought to sit down. Nonetheless, I do not think it is right that  Senator Cotton  should raise this point of order because what he is endeavouring to do is in some way cast aspersions upon Government senators who are interjecting. They have a right to interject. I think that the Senate has from time to time given the freedom of interjection upon a senator who - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I was speaking about the statement made by  Senator Hall  that the Senate must not do this and do that. The position is that the Constitution gives us that right. As I said,  Senator Murphy,  when Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, said exactly the same thing and  Mr Whitlam  backed up those arguments. Why the shift? Why the change in view? 
No, because there was a change of government - 
I have never gone to water. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I do not think anybody could say that I have been provocative because I have not been able to get started with my speech to any extent. Before I was interrupted I was referring to statements made by  Senator Hall.  He made the great statement in this chamber that the Opposition did the wrong thing in opposing legislation today. I said before that, in conformity with what the former Leader of the Labor Opposition said- he was supported by  Mr Whitlam-  the Senate has the right to do what it did, and for honourable senators opposite to talk in this way is just nonsense. It is a cover-up. It is something which has been built up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  over a period of weeks because he has been so panic-stricken at the possibility of losing the Prime Ministership of this country.  Senator Hall  knows, as I know and everybody else knows, that this matter, was brought to a culmination by the disclosure- of breaches by a Minister who has since virtually been dismissed because he did not tell the truth. As a consequence of this loan situation it was felt that the Parliament had arrived at a point of crisis and that something, should be done about the matter. As a consequence, the Opposition today threw out the piece of legislation involved. 
As to suggestions that the overseas loans matter is not a serious one, it is rather interesting that  Senator Hall  should come to the rescue of the Government today on this matter, because when this matter of the loans was before this chamber on 16 July, you will recall,  Mr President,  that  Senator Hall  made a very startling speech, from which I will read a quotation, which rather indicates that although tonight he does not think it matters, on 16 July he thought it a matter of such consequence that he made this statement: 
This is an evolving situation. 
I was not here. I was absent as part of a delegation.  Mr Speaker  knew why I was away. He was the leader of the delegation and I was the  deputy  leader. This is what  Senator Hall  said. 

 - Senator McLaren is always interjecting.  Senator Hall,  the man who now stands up for this Government, said on 16 July, regarding the loans question which is now so very prominent in the minds of members of this Parliament and the people of this country: 
This is an evolving situation. The Parliament has been tried and the Ministry has not answered. This is the second major attempt to obtain information which so far has not been available. If the Government is able to frustrate this move, something else will happen. If I were in the Opposition 's position I would adjourn the Senate until 1 January next and let the people decide - 
That means by vote-  in the meantime. 
-This is  Senator Hall's  statement. He went on to say: 
Something will have to be done to find out just where the Government is culpable or where it is blameless, because it will not say. The Opposition's position is, of course, somewhat difficult. As I have said,it cannot let the matter rest here. It will be the Government's responsibility- I have no doubt that it will be the Government's responsibility- if the Opposition is forced into further action to obtain the information that it desires. 
It is a complete somersault of mind, when one realises that that is the statement that  Senator Hall  made on 16 July. I think it is reasonable to say that a lot of information still has to be produced in relation to this matter. 
-Yes, I know a lot of it. 
-Let me tell you. If the honourable senator wants it, I will tell him something for his own good. 
-There is no doubt that there is a desire not to allow me to speak. It has been suggested that I might be able to tell the Senate something which may be of interest to it. First of all, let me deal with  Mr Khemlani.  He was a man who was traduced before the public through people in this Parlament and so on. He has come to this country and he has made certain statements. It has now been proved that what he said was correct and that the Minister concerned was telling lies. He has since been - 

 Senator Georges- I rise on a point of order,  Mr President.  According to standing order 418, with which I am now familiar, the honourable senator has reflected upon a member of the House of Representatives by saying that he has been telling lies. Let me make it perfectly clear to you,  Mr President.  I am raising a point of order; I am not interjecting. My point of order is that  Senator Wood  ought to be required to withdraw that statement which was to the effect that the exMinister,  Mr Connor,  was telling lies. It seems to me extraordinary that  Senator Wood  who, for quite a deal of time has been in a position, shall we say, of question- and it has not been raised in this House- in relation to a company called Nickelfields. 
Why does not  Senator Georges  say that outside? 
You say it outside. 

 - Mr President, if you desire a withdrawal I will withdraw. I will use the words: 'He was guilty of misleading the Prime Minister'. There seems to be a furious desire to stop me from speaking. But let me say quickly that  Mr Khemlani  has come to this country. It has been proved that his statements so far have been correct. In this afternoon's newspapers - 
The honourable senator asked me to make sure that there was not an election before a certain time so that he would be in Parliament long enough to get his pension. 
It is true. I am telling you, it is true. 
-It is true. 
As I was saying,  Mr Khemlani  has come to this country and made certain statements. So far he has been proved correct. In this afternoon's newspaper - 
This afternoon - 
I do not know why honourable senators are trying to stop me from speaking. But that is quite apparent. As I have said, this afternoon  Mr Khemlani,  who so far has been proved to be correct, has made an offer that he is prepared to come before the Senate or before a commission to detail much more information which he has. He has also said that he is prepared to disclose all the papers, which indicates that he has some authority about his statement. I think that we might well have him before the Senate or before a select committee of the Senate to deal with this matter. As my time is running short- unless I am given an extension- I have something to say to  Senator McLaren  who was so keen in wanting to have more information. I believe that there is a lot to be found out about the matter. If  Senator McLaren  wants to know I can tell him that I know that a  Mr Dan  Thompson, a director of Minerals Centres, told me he has certain documents in connection with this loan raising- his company was involved in the negotiations- showing that certain Ministers and a public servant are involved, and that if this were revealed they would rather blow the thing sky high in a more impressive way than has been the case at the present time. So if the Senate wants to have further investigations let us have  Mr Khemlani  present. Let us have  Mr Dan  Thompson here. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I raise this point of order not to try to contest what  Senator Wood  has said but because it seems to me that, in the best interests of the Senate, it would be better if we were to direct our remarks in an objective and impersonal way to the subject matter which is before the Chair. I am not unmindful of what has happened during the afternoon because I have been in my office listening to the debate. But that is another question.  Mr President,  I think that you have to draw the line at some point. In my view the comments which have been made and which cause me to take this point of order are sufficient- I am sure that  Senator Wood  will concede this on reflection. 
Senate and of the standing and status of the Senate in the eyes of the Australian community. That is no reflection on you,  Mr President,  because I have the greatest respect for you. I am sure that if  Senator Wood  is prepared to reflect on this matter he will realise that if we continue to abuse one another in the Senate and disregard the Standing Orders we will reduce ourselves to the rabble which people take some satisfaction in saying the Senate is. I still happen to believe- notwithstanding what I believe in respect of this Senate- that unless you can replace the institution that we have for the time being it should not be denigrated in the way it has been denigrated this afternoon. 
No  Senator shall  interrupt another  Senator whilst  speaking . . . 
I call  Senator Wood. 
In fairness to  Senator Brown  I just want to say that I recognise him as one of the - 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the Leader of the Government seen the reports in yesterday's Melbourne  Herald  and this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  that  Mr Khemlani  has issued a challenge to the Prime Minister to have an open inquiry into the loans affair? The reports also state that  Mr Khemlani  is prepared to give evidence, to open his files and present them to an inquiry, and to show that there are other Ministers who backed  Mr Connor  in the negotiations with which he was dealing. Can the Leader of the Government tell me whether the Prime Minister is prepared to accept that challenge by  Mr Khemlani  to hold an inquiry in the form of a royal commission or to appear before the Senate or a Senate Committee? Will the Prime Minister accept that challenge in order to clean up this affair? If not, why not? 
-Last night I attempted to make a speech in connection with a couple of matters. I shall now proceed and in view of the way in which time is pressing on us now, I shall be as brief as possible. Last evening we heard a speech by  Senator Hall  from South Australia in which he made some rather rash statements. He accused the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Fraser,  of ringing up newspaper offices and telling people what they should write in their newspaper. 
I think that this suggestion is a bit ludicrous. Just because a man might speak to a newspaper office, under no circumstances could it be said that he tells the editor of the newspaper what he is to write. That just shows the unreliability of the statements of  Senator Hall.  As a matter of fact, it has been reported to me by a Senate colleague that  Senator Hall  is famous for the number of Press men he entertains every evening with drinks or eats. As a consequence, it has been indicated that because of this continuous entertaining of Press men no doubt he gets a very good Press. Probably  Senator Hall  thinks that everybody is similar to himself in seeking publicity. 
It was rather revealing and entertaining to see the somersault that  Senator Hall  made last night. He castigated the Opposition for having voted yesterday to knock back a particular Appropriation Bill.  Senator Hall  is the last man who should talk about that action. As a matter of fact, he should have applauded it. As I said last night and as I restate now that things are of a calmer nature, on 16 July in this Senate,  Senator Hall  made a statement on the question of the loans affair. The reason why action was taken by the Opposition to put the Government before the people in an election is the scandal and the comment that came out as a result of this loans deal.  Senator Hall  said at the time: 
This is an evolving situation. The Parliament has been tried and the Ministry has not answered. This is the second major attempt to obtain information which so far has not been available. If the Government is able to frustrate this move, something else will happen. If I were in the Opposition 's position  i  would adjourn the Senate until 1 January next and let the people decide in the meantime. 
Those words mean that he would have had an election. 
The honourable senator from Queensland is just a gasbag; that is all he is.  Senator Hall's  remarks meant that he was pressing very strongly for us to have an election between when he made his remarks and now. The only way it could have been done would have been for the Opposition to knock over the Budget or some of Supply. That is what was done yesterday, only Supply was deferred. We now find that  Senator Hall  has done a complete somersault and is castigating the Opposition because it did exactly what he wanted previously. It indicates to me that  Senator Hall  has become such an acrobat that I think he would find a very good position in a circus as the world's greatest somer.saulter. It looks to me as though he comes into this chamber and says that he is a Liberal. He no sooner says that than he yaps out with the greatest deal of contempt in criticism of the Liberal 
Party. It might be that he was entertaining some of his Press friends in the hope that he would get a good Press as a result of it. 
I point out that we should have some consistency in this matter. If at one stage, on 16 July,  Senator Hall  felt that this matter should be investigated further, even to the extent of having an election, what has made him change his outlook now? Why has his outlook changed at the present time when stronger revelations have been made by  Mr Khemlani  coming to this country? We know that denials were made and that  Mr Khemlani  was being discredited in the eyes of the public.  Mr Khemlani  came to Australia and was prepared to show his documents in a proper fashion. He did so. He presented the telexes.  Mr Khemlani  has been proved right. As a matter of fact, he is a man who can be credited with having set out to do something and with having done it. He has proved to be correct by the production of his telexes. 

 Senator Hall was so keen on 16 July this year to seek further information. We have  Mr Khemlani  in the country now. He has challenged the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to set up an open commission and said that he was prepared to come before the Senate. He said that he will give evidence and reveal all his documents so that they can be seen. Because of the smell that has been associated with this effort to obtain loans from overseas, it would be thought that the Government would want the matter to be cleared up, especially as the Prime Minister is always huffing and puffing around Australia that he is a man of great principle. Here is an opportunity to clean up the situation. Has he accepted? No, of course he has not accepted. Apparently, the Prime Minister is not likely to accept it. 

 Mr Khemlani has said that there is a lot more to reveal. What is more, he has said that he can reveal that others supported  Mr Connor  in the situation. Yet we find, despite the fact that he is prepared to bring the papers, give evidence and to prove that there is a lot more to the matter, the Government does not want to hear anything more about it. It is rather strange. If this is not a smelly subject, honourable senators would wonder why the Government would not want such an open inquiry. As a matter of fact, as I said last night, there is a lot more in this situation. I was talking about the matter to  Mr Dan  Thompson. He told me that he had information indicating that certain Ministers and others were involved in this situation in not the best of ways. I think that there is room for an investigation of this matter. If the Government is not prepared to have a royal commission into it, I think that the 
Senate should set up a select committee in order to go into the matter fully and to reveal the situation so that the people of Australia can see clearly that there has been some hanky panky in regard to endeavours to raise these loans. That is as much as I want to say on that matter at the moment because time is pressing on. 

 Senator Bunton also entered the fray last night. He made certain statements in regard to the Government. In trying to exonerate the Government in respect of the position in Australia he said that the unemployment situation is caused to a certain extent or to some considerable extent by the mechanisation of industry. We know that mechanisation has been taking place but let me say this to my friend  Senator Bunton:  Mechanisation has been going on for years in the sugar industry. At one time, men cut the sugar cane by hand, stick by stick. They loaded it by hand. It was carted and handled manually throughout the whole process. Today, machines undertake the work. The cane is not only planted by machine but also loaded and processed mechanically, but there is still no greater unemployment on average throughout the year because of that. Other industries have utilised the manpower in other ways. So this mechanisation has not taken place in the 3 years that the Labor Party has been in government. Goodness gracious me, it has been going on for donkey's years. 
This is part. The honourable senator indicated that this was the position and exonerated the Government because of it. When we were in office, there were only about 100 000 unemployed. This Government, which was then the Opposition, was shouting to high heaven about the terrible unemployment situation in this country. When it was stated that the overseas unemployment rate was much higher, the reply that we received from the Opposition in those days was that world conditions had nothing to do with Australia. What a complete change has taken place. Inflation, unemployment and everything else now are attributed to world trends. My own considered opinion is that the world situation has nothing to do with this Australian situation. When the Labor Government took over, this country was prosperous, it was sound and it was developing. Today, the whole position has been changed. 

 Senator Bunton also talked about how the Government had helped primary industry. One of the primary industries is mining. Let me cite as an example my area of Queensland which is south of Mackay. It contains one of the great open cut coalfields of Australia. What happened there? The development of 3 mines- Norwich Park, Hail Creek and Nebo- has been held up for several years. Now of course, the Japanese are wanting more coal. The development of the mining industry in Australia has more or less reached a stalemate. Now the Government in its desire to try to stimulate industries after having knocked back and blunted development programs over a period of years is saying that it has to get them going. Time has been lost. Costs have gone up in the development of these fields compared to what they would have been a few years ago. This has happened because of this Government's frustration of the development of those coal mining areas. If they had been allowed to develop, there would have been thousands more men employed than there are at the present time in those spheres. 
Over the years the people who in the main helped to develop those coal mines were people who came from overseas with their capital. For years and years we tried to get Australian business interests involved in those areas. What did they do? Nothing. It was not until we got foreign investors, because they had sufficient capital, that we were able to get the development of those great coal fields under way. When these new mines step up production, this area will be one of the greatest coal exporting areas of the world. That indicates what has been done with the introduction of foreign capital together with Australian capital but if we are to shut our eyes to the requirements of this country and hold it back because we cannot get Australian capital to carry out the development, we will frustrate the progress of the nation. The development of that  great primary industry, mining, has been severely set back over a period of years. 
Let me turn to deal with the search for oil. If ever there was a matter of urgency in this country it is the finding of more oil. If our stocks of oil run down, what we will have to pay in overseas credits to get oil for this country will be disastrous to Australia. What happened to the great oil searching companies that were in this country a few years ago? They buzzed off because of the tactics and the attitude of this Government. The Government did not want them here. Soon it will be down on its knees asking them to come back. These programs were built up over a period of years. I can remember what has happened during the long term that I have been in the Senate. Years ago when the former  Senator Spooner  was trying stimulate oil search development, the then leader of the Australian Labor Party opposed letting private enterprise do it. He said that the Government should be drilling for oil. Can honourable senators imagine how much oil we would have found if we had the government of the day, irrespective of which government it was, searching for oil. We must have private enterprise searching for oil. 
As I have said,  Senator Bunton  mentioned how this Government was helping primary industry. He mentioned the wool industry, the stabilisation of prices and the provision of funds by this Government. Let us recall the situation. It was the previous Liberal-National Country Party that brought about that stabilisation in the wool industry. This is a continuation of what that Government did. The credit for such schemes goes to the Government that initiated them. Looking at the situation as we find it now, I believe that the Senate had the right to take the action it took yesterday. So far as I am concerned, the Constitution gave us the power. Despite the nonsense from these woolly-minded or politically-minded professors from various universities, the Constitution gives the Senate the right that it has. If the Senate has not seen the reason to exercise that right previously, that does not under any circumstances say that the Senate cannot exercise that right. That is simple common sense. That is what I stand on. 
This Senate had a right to look at the circumstances. If it feels that the situation is perilous, dangerous or damaging to this country it has a right to say, 'The Government has to go to the country in order to get a fresh mandate from the people, to be tested by the people'. That right was given to the Senate not to use in an irresponsible way but to use in a responsible way. No Senate can use that power irresponsibly, continuously. The fear is now being expressed that this fragile democracy that we hear so much about could be shattered. What would happen if this Senate used that power irresponsibly and time after time the people re-elected the Government and said to the Opposition, 'You did the wrong thing'. The very awareness of the people, the judgment of the people themselves, would bring a responsibility into this chamber. I do not think that any Senate will act irresponsibly in this matter. If it did, it would get a reply from the people of Australia. 
My assessment at the moment is that this Government's position is such that in the minds of the people it has brought the country to a very bad state. The people fear what is taking place and they have lost confidence in this Government. Because of the smelly factors that are emanating from the loans scandal and also the fact that this Government has brought the country into a very bad position from an economic point of view and from the point of view of future development, I believe that the Senate did the best thing that it could do for the people of Australia when it took advantage yesterday of the opportunity available to it under the Constitution of giving the people of Australia the right to say whether there should be a change of government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Why did the Prime Minister in 1974, at just a threat from the Senate to stop supply, rush to a double dissolution election, yet under almost identical circumstances this time, with the actual delaying of Supply, the Prime Minister finds the excuse of a very great constitutional question to prevent his going to an election on this occasion? Is it not a fact that the reason for the difference in opinion is that in 1974 the Prime Minister felt that the Government had a chance of re-election but that on this occasion he feels that the Government will be decimated if he goes to the country? Further, is it not a fact that despite the claims about the great return of the Government at the double dissolution election, the Government was returned in the House of Representatives with a reduced overall majority, and with very small majorities in some electorates, and that in this Senate, which was elected by the same electors, the Government did not secure a majority? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. Is it not a fact that there is absolutely no evidence available to the Australian authorities of any association by that man with any Croatian nationalist group in this country? 
-If the source of the information upon which  Mr Woodhouse  bases his story is claimed to be what  Mr Hawke  told his fellow director,  Mr Wieland,  how did  Mr Hawke  know of a decision which  Mr Hayden  has said in the Parliament was made, and known to only a few people on 30 July? I make no judgment. The seriousness of the accusation is beyond question. It ought to be tested. Those who would rebut it ought to have their opportunity to put their account. If on 7 May 1975, that early date,  Mr Woodhouse  was able to ask questions before the Commission, as he was, pointing to a link between the ACTU and the Solo interests which would put the ACTU in an advantageous position, the question must arise as to where he got his information at that stage. If on 28 August he was able to state that the directors of ACTU-Solo would come before- the Commission and claim that there was a profit-sharing agreement between APC and ACTU-Solo, as ultimately proved to be the case, is not this some evidence that  Mr Woodhouse  had the information which he claimed to have at an early stage? These are matters warranting inquiry. 
The position of  Mr Hawke  no less warrants inquiry. In paragraph 15.4 of the report of the Commission these words appear: 
The Commission finds that the directors of ACTU-Solo, other than  Mr Hawke,  initiated and carried through a course of conduct designed to mislead and deceive the Minister for Minerals and Energy. As to  Mr Hawke,  the Commission makes no finding. 
One needs to look at paragraph 1 5.2 of the report to find out why the Commission made that exception. That paragraph states: 
Senior Counsel Assisting . . . proposed to submit that ACTU-Solo through its directors initiated and carried out successfully to its conclusion a course of conduct designed to deceive the Australian Government. Senior Counsel Assisting then made it plain that since these submissions carried serious implications for the persons concerned, the Commission expressly invited anybody who might be encompassed by such findings to appear before the Commission and either dissociate himself from the activities under review or offer any explanation he might have as to those activities. If such persons chose to remain silent they could only expect the ordinary and natural consequences. Neither of the other directors of ACTU-Solo,  Mr R.  J. L. Hawke or  Mr E.  C. Whiteford,  gave evidence before the Commission. 

 Mr Whiteford has since resigned as a director, but  Mr Hawke  continues as a director. It is transparent that  Mr Hawke  was personally involved in this whole deal. He did not leave Australia until early June 1975. He was party to the decisions taken before he left. A substantial degree of complicity in the design to circumvent the Government's oil policy is demonstrable. No amount of bluster and threat of defamation actions can conceal the obvious. 
Consider in the first place his position: He is President of the Australian Labor Party; President of the ACTU; a highly placed and favourably placed individual; a trade union official committed to involving the ACTU in business enterprises- in retail selling, travel, insurance and other activities; a person who in the past has used industrial muscle or trade union power to advantage the profitability of those ventures and as I have said in this place previously, a true twentieth century robber baron in the style of the commercial and industrial muscelment of nineteenth century United States of America. Morever, he is a man in a position to assert and insist that the ALP government should assist the union movement, just as he has indicated recently that he is prepared to use the union movement to assist an ALP government. 
But consider the facts, in addition to his position. He knew the facts of the option arrangement under which the $5 per barrel purchase price was arranged, and that is demonstrable. The commission has demonstrated that there was an option to purchase the crude oil, which was given to Solo Discount Petroleum Pty Ltd. In the negotiations with APC which followed, at all times that company acted as agent for the company which is now known as ACTU-Solo Enterprises. The option agreement was dated 16 May 1975, and by it APC granted to Solo Discount Petroleum Pty Ltd an option for a fee of $100 to purchase the parcel of crude at $5 per barrel. APC twice extended the option, first by letter on 20 May and then by letter dated 21 May. It was on 22 May, according to  Mr Souter,  that the option was exercised on behalf of ACTU-Solo. The crucial dates when the option was extended and when the option was exercised were the dates of the ACTU Executive meeting held in Perth and presided over by  Mr Hawke.  It is inconceivable that the ACTU Executive did not give the go-ahead to exercise the option. It is equally inconceivable that  Mr Hawke  did not know the terms of that option. It is completely inconceivable that the ACTU Executive, which has subsequently unanimously backed  Mr Souter,  did not know what it was going into. The words used by the commission in its findings are relevant: 
The terms of the option are plain. When it exercised the option the grantee agreed to purchase the crude at $5 per barrel. This price is well above the Government approved price of $2. 10. 
In other words, the ACTU, when it agreed to purchase the crude, knew it was buying at well above the Government approved price. Consider  Mr Hawke  's conduct. As early as 6 May, a fortnight before this particular transaction was consummated,  Mr Hawke  was talking to the Press. As the Adelaide  Advertiser  said, he revealed ACTU plans to market cut price petrol. The Advertiser went on to say: 
The  President (Mr Hawke)  said last night he would recommend forming the company to the ACTU Executive meeting in Perth next week. The company, to be called ACTU-Solo Enterprises, would be a joint venture with leading independent cut-price service station owners, lt is expected to be operating within three months . . . 
According to the  Age  of the same date  Mr Hawke  said that he, Bob Hawke, would be putting a positive recommendation to the Executive and that the new company would use industrial muscle to ensure petrol supplies are maintained. 

 Mr Hawke said the ACTU hoped to gain the rights to an allocation of Australian crude oil. 
So he was making some statements about what was happening. The significant thing is what  Mr Hawke  did not say. He failed to say that an option had been exercised under which at that time, as he must have known, ACTU-Solo was buying from APC at $5 a barrel- in excess of the Government price. Why did  Mr Hawke  not make mention of that fact? I suggest that the clear conclusion anyone would draw is that if he did make mention of it it might lead to some awkward questions being asked. Indeed, the knowledge of the sale of crude oil seems to have been kept secret or to have been disclosed to few people until the remarkable revelation came before the Royal Commission on 29 August.  Mr Leonard  of Ampol knew of it, because he made some reference to the possibility, if one can read the Press statements, on 29 May. A journalist who reported what  Mr Leonard  said did not take up the matter.  Mr Murray,  who writes in the  Australian Financial Review  constantly on this ACTU venture, apparently did not know of it. But what has  Mr Hawke  done? He has said that he was not involved. He is reported as saying in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 4 September the following: 
I understand it has already been made clear in the Royal Commission and in Federal Parliament that I was not involved in any way in the negotiations. 
That is a most ambivalent statement. It was not made clear either in the Parliament or in the Commission, as he alleged, nor is it clear in fact. His own Press statements reveal his knowledge. His position would necessarily involve him. His silence on crucial facts suggests knowledge of the public deception. His failure to give evidence before the Royal Commission stands out. There is a clear need for a further investigation. 
The Senate has before it reasoned argument as to the probable involvement of the former Minister for Minerals and Energy in the original arrangement. The former Minister has remained silent. The Senate has before it, as the Commission did, unexplained events concerning a consideration of $5 a barrel being split into 2 agreements. The Senate has before it the Commission's placing of blame on all directors of ACTU-Solo, and the strong statement, moreover, that  Mr Souter  was not the architect of the scheme. We are not told who was. The Senate has the unerring pointers to the involvement of the crucial stages of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  yet he has reiterated denials of involvement. Nevertheless, there is his failure to give evidence. 
There ought to be an inquiry. What could an inquiry ascertain? The directors of APC and its officers who were connected with the transaction could give their story; they have not done so. The solicitors who drew up the agreements and who could explain the provision that it was the purchaser, ACTU-Solo, which requested the splitting of the consideration, could give evidence. The ACTU research team and, in particular,  Mr Kelty,  could give evidence. The officials of the Commonwealth Bank, who must have been given full information to advance ACTU-Solo the purchase price of almost $2m, could give evidence. Finally,  Mr Connor, Mr Hayden  and  Mr Hawke  could give evidence. The need for this inquiry is self evident. It would be a disgrace to this country if the Senate did not pursue this matter. 
Where is he? 
This is what  Mr Wechsler  has told me. It may be lies; it may not be lies. I am simply seeking information. He also spoke to staff at the Australian High Commissioner's office in London. So the record of whether he did that will be there. I would be interested to know why the Australian High Commissioner's office said that it was not interested in what had happened to him or what had been said. It may be that there is concern on the part of the Government as to  Mr Wechsler's  revelations. He was employed by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, and the Minister conceded that when he spoke on the matter in the Senate on 2 1 April. In the Czech Embassy  Mr Wechsler  was shown documents which he believes could have come only from ASIO in this country. He was shown a photocopy of his passport.  His  passport had been issued only in March of this year. He was shown photographs of meetings which he had held in Australia which he believed could have come only from sources which were close to ASIO. 
It may be that the allegations which he made and which I have detailed in the Senate ought to be investigated and ought to be more widely known. I believe that these are matters upon which some explanation ought to be forthcoming. I again state that if the purpose of the Minister's untrue assertions of April of this year is simply to ridicule the man who made these assertions, it would be apparent that he was ridiculing him because there was no answer to them. I make mention of the fact that  Mr Wechsler  had said that he knew that people such as  Dr Cairns, Dr Cass  and  Mr Enderby  had actively concerned themselves with the restoration into the Australian Labor Party of the Trotskyist group which the Young Labor Association in Victoria had expelled from the Labor Party. It may be that these accounts are matters of concern which cannot be answered and therefore they are ridiculed. I make the assertion and I await the answer. I expect that in due course the Minister will give the answer. 

 -Even Mr Cameron, the man who claimed to be responsible for the whole thing when he spoke in the House of Representatives, has been removed from the office that he wanted to hold on to and is now languishing as the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. 
Let it not be forgotten that the Government said it was producing all the documents that were relevant. It produced a number of documents. Let it not be forgotten that recent events have disclosed that it had not produced all the documents and that much which it knew was kept hidden.  Mr Khemlani's  statement represents a further instalment in the revelation of all that has taken place. It will provide greater information and maybe it will provide that final exposure which will put  Mr Whitlam  in the place that  Mr Nixon  ultimately went to. One can understand, therefore, why  Senator Wheeldon  is concerned that this document should not be produced. It is an absolutely incredible situation that the Government which wants to reveal the truth, which came into office as the government - 
-Sir Robert Menzies. He said: 
It was a disreputable incident. It was designed to evade the constitutional obligations of the Commonwealth. 
When the Prime Minister says that no allegation of illegal conduct, improper conduct or reprehensible conduct has been made, he is plainly not telling the truth. Therefore, when he says that the means which he will follow to govern without the Appropriation Bills will not be illegal and will not be unconstitutional, what credence or trust can be placed on his words? One could add this further question. Until the Government states the means by which it proposes to raise the thousands of millions of dollars with which to carry on government, how can one say whether the means will be legal and constitutional? Is the Government still surreptitiously endeavouring to raise by some unlawful Executive Council minute or authority thousands of millions of dollars on the international money market? What means are being adopted by the Government? 
I speak at a late stage in this debate only because what has occurred since last Friday, in terms of the Prime Minister's statements that he proposes to govern even if the Appropriation Bills do not go through, adds a new dimension to the whole situation which is frightening in its seriousness for parliamentary authority. The Government apparently is not concerned to inform the Parliament of what it is doing. If there were inadequate reasons in the past for why this Government should go to the people, the present threat by the Prime Minister adds a reason why this Government should be tested by the people. The basic and fundamental issue which we in the Opposition are asserting and will continue to assert is whether the people of Australia, in a democracy, shall have the right to vote. It is the Australian Labor Party which fears an election, it is the Australian Labor Party which is opposing an election. 
I listened with very great interest to  Senator Brown,  whom I always respect for his views. I was interested to hear him say that the Labor Government would not have a bar of this idea of the Senate throwing out a money Bill and the Government going to the country. This is a complete change of tune and I refer to what took place in 1970. I have had sent to me a very interesting speech by  Mr John  Greenwood, the member for Ashgrove in the Queensland Parliament, in which he said: 
I refer first to the Senate debates of 18 June 1970, at page 2647, where the Leader of the ALP Opposition in the Senate, then  Senator Murphy,  presumably in expressing the considered view of the ALP in the Senate, said this- 
The Opposition will oppose these measures ' (the States receipts duties). ' In doing this the Opposition is pursuing a tradition which is well established, but in view of some doubt recently cast on it in this Chamber, perhaps I should re-state the position. 
The Senate is entitled and expected to exercise resolutely but with discretion its power to refuse its concurrence to any financial measure, including a tax Bill. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers, except the limitations imposed by discretion and reason. The Aus tralian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure whenever necessary to carry out our principles and policies.' 

 Mr Greenwood goes on to state: 
How very different from the attitude adopted by the Liberal and National Parties! For us it must be a matter of the utmost rarity- one requiring exceptional circumstances or the gravest danger to this nation- before the Senate should exercise its power and block Supply.  Senator Murphy  and the ALP are prepared to block any tax or money Bill or any other financial measure whenever necessary to carry out the ALP 's principles and policies. 
Of course  Mr Whitlam,  who is now rivalling  Senator Hall  as one of Australia's greatest somersaulters,  said that he was more than happy to see the Senate reject the measure.  Mr Greenwood  states that  Mr Whitlam,  in the first column of his speech, had this to say: 
This Bill and its associated Bills will be rejected by the Parliament. ' Later, at page 3495, he says- 
Any Government which is defeated by the Parliament on a major taxation Bill should resign. The sooner this Government resigns, the sooner the people can elect a Government which can make a reasonable financial agreement with the States and can take into account the still more severe financial situation of the States' creationstheir local government and semi-government authorities.' 
There  Mr Whitlam,  the leader, was the architect of this device in encouraging and urging the Senate to reject this money Bill with a view to forcing the House of Representatives to the polls. This is the very proposition that he now denies. 
That indicates very clearly that it depends on which side you are, which way the wind is blowing, whether you believe that what the Senate does is right. All this argument which is being put forward about the Senate not having this power is a lot of nonsense. A great deal of time was given to the consideration of the powers of the Senate. The amount of debate and time taken in the creation of the Australian Parliament in this respect was considerable. It is very interesting to hear from people who talk about our position in relation to the position of the House of Commons. I shall read another extract from this address by  Mr John  Greenwood which was delivered in the State House. This chamber has always been featured as being like the House of Commons. What honourable senators should realise is the great power which was given to this chamber by the people who created it. I say here and now that the Constitution of this country is wrapped around the Senate. If there had not been a Senate there would not be an Australian Parliament today.  Mr Greenwood  in his speech stated: 
When we discuss this question, the events of 1911 and their effect on the powers of the House of Lords tend to colour our thinking, and it is something that we should be wary of because we should remember two things. The first thing we should remember is that those who framed our Constitution intended to create a Chamber far more powerful than the House of Lords and, indeed, far more powerful than any other second Chamber in the world. The second thing that we should remember is that, even if the framers of our Constitution had intended to limit the powers of the Senate to reject Supply to be co-extensive with the powers  enjoyed by the House of Lords, they would have been thinking of the powers enjoyed by the House of Lords in 190 1 and not thinking of the limited powers which the Lords were left with after the events of 1 9 10 and 1911 and the passage of the Parliament Act. On the first point- the point that the fathers of our Constitution wished to create a Senate far more powerful than any other second House- I would simply refer to a statement by the Right Honourable  Sir Edmund  Barton, the Leader of the Australasian Federal Convention 1897-98, the first Prime Minister and a justice of the High Court of Australia. He said this- 
We cannot fail to remember that the  Consitution  designed the Senate to be a House of greater power than any ordinary second chamber. Not only by its express powers, but by the equality of its representation of the States, the Senate was intended to be able to protect the States from aggression'. 
I think that indicates very clearly what was behind the minds of the people who framed the Constitution at that time. The Senate has that power, and it has the right to exercise it. Because the Senate has not used this convention, that right does not wither. In these days one talks about a matter of convention which could possibly have arisen. But the situation has never arisen and nobody has desired to take such action. I stand on the right which the Constitution gives us.  Mr Greenwood  in his speech also goes to great lengths to point out that even in regard to money Bills and the amendment of them, the power of the Senate is such that if a request is sent to the House of Representatives and if the House of Representatives does not agree, this chamber still has the power to send back that request. 
In dealing with this problem which we have before us now I think that we have to think of the power of this chamber. It is rather interesting to see the changes in our Prime Minister. As I said before, he is almost outdoing  Senator Hall  as Australia's No. 1 somersaulter. In 1974 when the Senate merely threatened to stop Supply the Prime Minister raced to the Governor-General and asked for a double dissolution. Now in 1975 a similar situation has arisen but it turns out to be a great constitutional crisis. Why the difference? I heard an Australian Broadcasting Commission man talking to  Mr Whitlam  a while ago. He was asking him questions. When I saw the ABC man in the corridor I said to him: 'The one question you failed to ask  Mr Whitlam  was why the difference in 1974 when compared with 1975. Instead of racing to a double dissolution he is racing towards a great crisis'. 
The other somersaulter has come into the chamber. The reply was: 'You know why he raced for a double dissolution in 
May 1974. It was because he felt he had a chance of getting back.'  Mr Whitlam  knows that he would not have got back if he had gone straight to the people when we knocked back the Budget Bills. He would have been decimated. There is no question about it. He knew that situation. Since then he has put up a fanfare for which, unfortunately, some people have fallen. We now find honourable senators of the Labor Party are trotting out stories about opinion polls. It is very interesting to know that those opinion polls do not extend beyond the major cities; that is the cities of Newcastle and Canberra. But if honourable senators go into the country areas they will find a different situation altogether. Let us be realistic about this matter. If honourable senators opposite want an opinion poll let us take one on a wider scale. I know that publicity has been churned out by the numerous Press people who work for the Labor Party. It is a publicity campaign. The Press Gallery is slanted to the Labor Party. Since Whitlam has been in office the members of the Press Gallery have been the greatest bunch of Cook's tourists that we have had in the history of Australia. A senior Press man told me that this was why they were all pro- Whitlam. They are as slanted as can be. This morning, Creighton Burns, who is a great disciple of the Australian Labor Party, talked about the Opposition knocking this legislation over in the Senate. He is as far off the truth as is Whitlam himself when he says that he is not in favour of the Senate knocking over money Bills. 
There should not be any error by thinking that  Mr Whitlam  is a prime favourite of everybody. Honourable senators opposite know what they feel about him. I believe that  Mr Whitlam  is not fair dinkum. As a matter of fact, I will tell honourable senators this straight: He is not even a Labor man. Why, his own uncle was reported in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  as having said on his birthday a few months ago: 'We have never had a Labor man in the family. How he ever became a Labor man I do not know'. He said: What is more, he is the worst Prime Minister we have ever had'. A person that I know in the legal profession- his uncle knew him- said when he nominated for the Labor Party: 'What are you nominating for the Labor Party for? You are not Labor, Gough'. He replied: 'I know I am not'. The other person said: 'What are you going Labor for?' He said: 'They are only a lot of old mokes, of not much quality. I can become leader, and if I can become leader I can become Prime Minister'. He is a phoney Labor man. Do not tell me that he did not think that about his colleagues. He told me on an aeroplane coming to Canberra from Sydney one day: 'The Labor senators are a bunch of loafers'. I do not tell lies. That is what he told me. 
I am not so gullible. 
I have been around this place a long time and I know when I am having my leg pulled. I know what he thinks, and I know what many Labor senators think about him. I am not going to reveal a thing. 
What is that? 
Like smoke. Do not worry about that. He was fair dinkum. I know what he thinks about you. He said that Labor senators are a lot of loafers and he told this other man that Labor senators are only a lot of old mokes. He did not say that only to me; he said it to others as well. That is what he thinks about honourable senators opposite. As I said, he is not a fair dinkum Labor man. Ben Chifley would turn in his grave if he knew that  Mr Whitlam  was Leader of the Labor Party. He has been Prime Minister for nearly 3 years. It is trotted out that he has had only 1 8 months and so on. He has had 3 years as Prime Minister. What has been achieved under this Government? We have arrived at record unemployment, record inflation and a record number of strikes. The economy of this country is far from being in a satisfactory position. Because of the current circumstances and the incidents that have taken place recently the people on this side of the chamber have the right to indicate that it is time that the Government was again judged by the people of this country. Nobody can say that the Government has been running the country smoothly in relation to these matters. 
We are now told that by the time the school leavers are taken into account we will have up to half a million unemployed. I can remember when we had a little over 100 000 unemployed. Because of the dance that went on in the House of Representatives particularly and in this chamber one would have thought that we had a million people unemployed. There was no reason why we should have that level of unemployment in this country. What is the result today? The position is worse than ever. We find that businesses are collapsing and industry is struggling along. A report which has just been published today, I think, indicates that things could become much more serious. I believe that the situation has been arrived at when honourable senators on this side of the chamber can quite worthily say that we can knock back a money Bill and that the Government should go to the people. That is the right of this chamber if it thinks that the Government is not running the country properly; it should have the right to send the Government to the people. 
-When it feels that it has arrived at a certain situation, it can. Do not tell me that a government has to run its term of 3 years. What happened when  Senator Hall  was Premier of South Australia? He was going to be the big shot and he redesigned the electoral boundaries. Did he wait for 3 years before he came out and called an election? No, he did not. He came out well before his 3 years. He thought that he would be landslided into office; he got landslided out of office.  Senator Hall  is always telling us on this side of the chamber how to run a party successfully. Look at what he did. He took a double header and he has been in the ocean ever since. This Senate has the right to send the Government to the people if it feels that things are going wrong. 
One of the big issues that has been brought before the chamber is the matter of the raising of this money. I am not concerned about the matter of the raising of the money; what really brings about a serious situation is what was done. We have in the Constitution what is known as the financial agreement provisions. In authorising the Executive Council minute to raise the money in the manner in which it did the Government, I understand from the experts, breached section 105 A of the financial agreement provisions of the Constitution. Apparently that is a very serious matter. The States are supposed to take part in such financial agreements, but they knew nothing about it. So we get down to a fundamental basis of argument: Why did the Government of the day do such a thing knowing that it was wrong? What it did was not in accordance with the action which is required by these financial agreement provisions. The Government set out to raise this money. In how many places did it set out to raise the money? 

 Mr Khemlani has been very prominent in the news. He was a scout for money for the Government. Over a period of time he maintained that he had it and it was not taken and so on. He has been to this country and he has challenged  Mr Whitlam  to set up a royal commission. Honourable senators opposite and  Mr Whitlam  are asking us what we have done about it. The challenge was made to  Mr Whitlam, Mr Khemlani  challenged him to set up a royal commission. If the Government was in the clear in relation to this matter, why did it not set up a royal commission? 
This is a very important matter,  Senator Gietzelt,  and you know as well as I do that it is. So on this particular issue  Mr Whitlam  squibbed once again. He did nothing about it. Now he throws it at us and asks why we did not do something.  Mr Khemlani  's name is now being bandied around this chamber as being a person who is treated as a joke. Yet in the debate which took place in the House of Representatives on 9 July the Prime Minister said about the Government's action: 
The proper checks were made on the bona fides of the gentleman involved. 
In saying that the bona fides of the gentleman involved were properly checked,  Mr Whitlam  was holding him up as a man of standing and authority and honesty. Why are honourable senators opposite trying to make a joke of him?  Mr Connor  said also: 
Treasury inquiries . . . revealed the man's integrity. 
If Treasury inquiries revealed  Mr Khemlani  's integrity, why are honourable senators opposite dumping him how? It should be remembered that we on this side of the chamber did not engage  Mr Khemlani;  it was the people opposite who engaged him. So do not try to throw him back on to us, because we did not bring him here. The people opposite brought him here.  Mr Khemlani  came to this country. He has now left a document which has been tabled. He has asked for the right to speak in this Senate or before a committee. If he thinks that he has been wrongfully accused or put in a wrongful position, I as a democratic person believe that he should have the right to appear before a committee. I think that is the way in which to give him justice. If he comes here and nothing comes out of it he has had his request acceded to and he has had a fair deal. But if some wrongful action comes out of it, that action should be revealed to the public and the Government should pay the penalty. I think that is common justice. Surely if" he asks to be given that right his request should be acceded to. 
It amazes me that in relation to the amount of money involved we have got up to the figure of $8,000m, which is the figure about which  Mr 
Khemlani talks. I want to know in how many areas that money was being raised. I know that  Mr Dan  Thompson in Sydney was associated with the raising of money for the Government for quite a long time, running back considerably into the latter part of last year. First, the figure that I heard started at $2,000m. Then it was $4,000m. Ultimately, the figure had reached $9,000m. 
What happened?  Mr Dan  Thompson told me that his company obtained the money for the Government in America. The first draw down was to be in early December. I know that  Dr J.  F. Cairns went over to America and was to give the imprint of authority after attending a conference in one of the American countries. But what was the result? The money was eventually obtained, as I said, and the draw down was to take place in December. But it was not taken up, I understand, because  Dr Cairns  had such a dislike for the United States of America. At that time, the money was to be obtained from Treasury Bonds which were to have been reduced to gold. At that time gold was worth $US 1 30 an ounce. Later the value of gold rose to SUS200 an ounce. The Government could have made a profit in that situation. But it did not take up the funds. 
What happened next? The next move was for the Government to chase around after money from the oil sheiks. Over a period, the money was obtained, but with what results?  Dr Cairns  was in Iran. There were delays. The people who said that they had the money became impatient.  Mr Dan  Thompson told me on that Monday night that there was terrific annoyance on his part and on the part of other negotiators because the Government was dumping them. After this group had established contacts with those who had the funds that the Government was seeking, eventually when  Dr Cairns  returned to Australia, instead of taking the money, the Government was trying to deal direct and no doubt to cut these people out of the commission. That was the sort of thing that was going on. 
Was the Khemlani group different from the other group with which  Mr Thompson  was associated? If it was, in how many other areas was this Government trying to raise money? Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Khemlani  said in one of his statements that one of the things about which he was concerned was that he found that the Government was seeking around amongst other people looking for money. It seems to me that the search by this Government for money has ranged in various areas. Were these searches in the same areas with the same groups or were they in different areas with different groups altogether? 
As far as I am concerned,  Mr Thompson  who on several occasions spoke to me about this matter said quite voluntarily to me on the Monday night by telephone: 'As far as I am concerned, I will release all the papers and blow the whole story open'. The whole story included the point that there we:re several Ministers who were going to be in on a cut-up of the commission. That is what  Mr Thompson  told me, not once but several times. 
I know. I know that it was a very grave charge when I accused many years ago a Minister for Lands in Queensland who was a member of the then Queensland Labor Government. I was accused of getting down into the gutter by a Labor senator. That was the accusation against me then. But what happened when the report of the royal commission was presented? That royal commission found that the Minister for Lands was guilty. I was vindicated. So, I am telling honourable senators now the story that I know: There were several Ministers supposed to be in the cut-up.  Mr Thompson  at that time volunteered that he would reveal the papers. Since then, he has been shilly-shallying because a couple of other negotiators with him are afraid to release those papers. But I believe that a committee of the Senate could bring these people here and could elicit the right information. 
My concern is not with the Government trying to raise money from other sources. I think that the whole matter has developed into a very smelly subject. The indications as far as I can see them are such that, with the financial position of this country as it is today, with its record unemployment, record inflation and its record number of strikes, when we were promised peace by this Government, and now the smelly loans subject, it is well timed that the people should have the opportunity of re-assessing this Government. 
The fact that its second term of office has not completely finished is no indication at all that that term should be finished. A number of governments have shortened their terms for reasons that suited them.  Mr Whitlam  has become one of the greatest somersaulters in this country. It is only a little while ago that the Prime Minister put to the people of this country a constitution alteration proposal by which he wanted the terms of the Senate and the House of Representatives to coincide. He has been a great believer in simultaneous elections for both 
Houses. Yet, when  Mr Fraser  put the proposition to him that he should hold Senate and House of Representatives elections in May of next year, the Prime Minister turned a somersault on the issue. There is no question about it: He is a somersaulter and he will not tell the truth on these matters. 
The position is this: We find a smearing campaign against  Mr Fraser,  the leader of the Liberal Party. We find a smear campaign also against  Mr Anthony.  This sort of campaign has even reached the point where allegations are even raked up about the wife of a parliamentarian receiving a necklace for launching a ship or something of that nature. Where will this end? This is cheap stuff - 
No. I am talking about ' principles in this Parliament. I have heard talk about  Mr Fraser  undermining his leader to become leader of the Liberal Party. Let me say this as a member of the Liberal Party: I do not believe that  Mr Fraser  had anything to do with that. With neither move did  Mr Fraser  have any association. I know that people themselves discussed this action. If honourable senators want - 
-Senator Walsh, the bag of wind from Western Australia, interjects. He is always the woodie in the wheat. If honourable senators want to know anything about undermining, let them answer this question: Who is the best underminer and best scalper in this nation? It is Goof Whitlam, the man who has goofed everything in the country. What did he do to Arthur Calwell? Did he scheme to undermine Arthur Calwell? 
Not much! What did Arthur Calwell think of him? 
Not much. I know Whitlam was out to undermine Arthur Calwell. Arthur Calwell was a really good Australian; I have said that before. I have always said from a personal point of view that if Arthur Calwell had been the Prime Minister of this country he would have been a good Australian Prime Minister because he had the sentiment of Australia in him. But I would not trust Whitlam because of what he did. And what of treachery? The most loyal Deputy Leader that anybody could have had was 
Barnard. What did Whitlam do to him? He stabbed him in the back. Ask Lance Barnard what he really thinks about it. 
I mention Frank Crean also. He is a very good economist and a most honest, sincere person. Honourable senators would not find a more sincere person anywhere. I have said this publicly. What did Whitlam do to him? He stabbed Frank Crean in the back. What about Jim Cope? He butchered him in front of everybody in the House of Representatives. Do not tell me that it was because Jim Cope was not a good  Speaker.  If he was not a good  Speaker,  why did the Labor Party re-elect him to that position for a second term? I could go on. We find Clyde Cameron, a man who worked very hard in Victoria to reorganise the Labor Party. He was shunted somewhere else where he did not want to go. We find such things happening all the time. As a matter of fact, Whitlam is a man to whom nobody should ever want to be close because it is his truest friends whom he stabs in the back. He stabs them all. It does not pay to be too close to him because one might get stabbed in the back. 
On the serious aspect of this issue the Senate has the right to do what it is seeking to do. In carrying out this right, honourable senators are carrying out their duties as senators if they feel this way. All this nonsense which goes on about the Senate not having this right is just a political sham campaign. All we have heard in the last few weeks is this emotional stuff from  Mr Whitlam  that the Senate should not take this action and that his Government should be given a chance, and so on. The Government has had 3 years and it has run this country into a most desperate situation. Surely to goodness it is time that we had the opportunity to say to the people: Let us have a change. Let us try to get back to decent government. This Government has run this country in a little under 3 years into a position which you would not have expected. This fact is shown in a letter which appeared today in one newspaper- I think it was the  Sydney Morning Herald-  in which the writer quoted the rates of inflation and unemployment in different countries. Australia, since the Labor Government came into office, is a very sorry example. 
I believe that, despite what Government senators say, under the previous 3 years of LiberalCountry Party Government we had progress and prosperity, we had a sound economy, we had one of the best and most progressive nations in the world. What is more, we had people in this country searching for minerals and oil which are essential requirements to our way of life. I know that members of the Labor Party talk about the multi-nationals coming in. They should come up to Mackay, where the multi-nationals have developed the coalfields, and ask the workers there, the people in the area, whether they would like the multi-nationals to go. Of course they would not. As far as the multi-nationals are concerned, the Labor Government was prepared to get $8,000m from the oil sheiks in the Arab countries and would have tied this country hand and foot with the repayments. It would have sold out the country to the Arabs. 
I present the report of the Australian parliamentary delegation to Thailand, Japan and the Philippines. I move: 
That the paper be printed. 
In doing so, I would like to point out that this delegation was led very capably by the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, the Honourable Gordon Scholes. I think it is worth while drawing attention to the fact that the delegation was primarily a fact finding mission. It considered that its duty was to observe political, economic and social structures in the countries it visited, to study trends in these areas of community activity, and to show Australian interest and goodwill by discussion and exchanges of views with the people and authorities directly involved. I think that at the time the delegation went to those countries it was a very unusual time following certain incidents in that area. The delegation was very interesting indeed. Then the report adds: 
There was added value in the visits in that we had the opportunity to visit Australian aid projects in both Thailand and the Philippines, and to gain firsthand knowledge of these exercises in regional co-operation. We believe that members of this Parliament should have a full understanding of the impact and success of Australian aid programs as described in the text of our Report, and we invite them in particular to take note of the included newspaper editorials which express better than we can the importance placed on these programs by the recipient countries. 
I have- read those quotations from the report of the  Speaker,  the Honourable Gordon Scholes, who was the l eader of the delegation. I point out that there was an interruption during the delegation's tour caused by the special meeting of the Parliament and that  Senator Gordon  Mcintosh of this chamber on the Government side took over the leadership in the absence of the  Speaker.  I pay tribute to the leadership of that delegation, by both the  Speaker  and  Senator Mcintosh.  As the  deputy  leader I introduce the report. 

 - Mr President, in warnings of impending cyclones in the northern part of Australia the distance of those cyclones from particular areas is measured in kilometres. In view of the fact that very few people understand the metric system and that these cyclones can be of great danger to people and it is necessary to know just where they are, will the Minister for Science take up with his Department the possibility of having those measurements expressed not only in kilometres but also in miles so that the people can be thoroughly warned? 

 -If Senator O 'Byrne had listened closely to what the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  said earlier, I think he would have secured the answers to his questions.  Senator Withers  made it quite clear that the investigations which are being carried out by the Commonwealth Police are investigations into allegations, and allegations only. The allegations are serious allegations involving a possible breach of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations which, I understand, the Labor Government amended in order to impose, amongst other things, a 5 -year term of imprisonment for any breaches which were established in the courts. It is entirely proper that the law enforcement authorities of this country should investigate allegations of crime. 
Whether or not the Attorney-General had information additional to what was alleged in the newspapers- there is no pre-judgment as to whether money has come into this country or has been paid- all that is occurring is an investigation of the allegations. As to the last part of the honourable senator's question, if anybody in this country feels that his privacy has been invaded by unlawful acts committed by the Commonwealth Police, access to the courts is ready and available and, furthermore, assisted by legal aid. 
Following the question asked by my Queensland colleague,  Senator Bonner,  I ask the Minister for Science a question. Why is he so insistent that people must understand the measurement of cyclones in kilometres when people do not understand those measurements? Is he also aware that one of our national daily newspapers recently took a survey of people in capital cities and found that most of them, including young people, did not understand information containing references to kilometres? The fact that there is a lack of knowledge of these things does not appear to have registered with the Minister because when I asked a similar question 2 weeks ago I referred to the registration of these warnings in KILL-o-MEtres and in his reply to me he talked about kilOM.etres. If the Minister does not know what KILL.oMEtres are, which is the pronunciation I used, how do people know what kil-OM-etres are, which is the pronunciation that the Minister used? 
-I bring up the fifty-first report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, it being a general report on the work of the Committee during 1975. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I ask for leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I wish to explain briefly to the Senate the nature of this report. It deals with the work of the Committee during 1975. It was drafted prior to the dissolution of the Senate. The present Committee has resolved to present it unaltered as a record of the work of the previous Committee. The report records the situation as it was in November last year. Where the report refers to undertakings to amend regulations and ordinances given by Ministers, it refers to Ministers of the previous Government. Some of these undertakings have not yet been carried out, but that is a matter which the present Committee is taking up with the new Ministers. 
I would like to pay tribute to the excellent work of my predecessor as  chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Devitt,  who pursued the work of the Committee diligently and with the highest regard for the principles on which the Committee operates. I also pay tribute to those exmembers of the Committee who did such excellent work.  Mr Deputy President,  I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I commend the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  for presenting this statement and for indicating that these privileges are to be put on a proper basis. Let me say that  Mr Daly,  the Minister for Administrative Services in the last Government, was more considerate of the needs of backbenchers of this Parliament than any other Minister has been in the whole of the 26 years that have elapsed since I was elected to the Senate. There is no question about it: The previous Government- my own Governmentcontained Ministers who were most miserable in many respects towards the entitlements of back benchers. They looked after their own entitlements, but they failed to think about the needs of back bench senators and members. It took  Mr Daly  to make them realise that something more was necessary. 
Those Ministers are not the only ones who are guilty in that respect. The former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  took it upon himself- I know his action was very much against the feelings of many members of the present Opposition who were then in government- to reduce the standard of air travel for members of Parliament from first class to economy class. It is very easy for people to do these sorts of things when their actions do not concern them. The inconvenience that they cause to others does not matter to them; they like to dictate to ordinary members. I have noticed that they look after themselves very warmly and very generously. For instance, honourable senators will notice that at present in order to qualify for a life gold pass a back bench senator or member has to be a member of this Parliament for 20 years or the life of 7 parliaments. But a Minister is such a marvellous person that he qualifies for a life gold pass after 3 years. Of course, a Prime Minister is such a super wonderful person that he receives a life gold pass after 12 months in office. These provisions are disproportionate. I do not think that the average back bench senator wants any extraordinary entitlements. What the average back bench senator wants is a fair deal- a fair deal compared with what is received by those who are in more exalted positions. 
Dealing with my own case, I am not a snob with respect to travel. In my home city, I do not own a motor car; I get around on a pushbike. No one can claim that I am a snob when it comes to travel. But when I travel by plane I like to travel in comfort. Because of the length of one's legs, one likes to have sufficient leg room. The other aspect to consider when one is travelling long distances is where one obtains a meal. The situation is all right for people like  Mr Whitlam  and others who live handy in Sydney. Previously he had VIP aircraft in which to travel. Those who travel long distances from Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania - 
Yes, and South Australiathe needs of those people are not accommodated as easily as those of people who travel short distances. This matter should be looked at, and it should be looked at fairly. I feel that the time has come to reconsider this matter. I hope that each and every senator and member will write to the Tribunal and put his or her case. If members of Parliament are silent on this matter, it will be overlooked. I think that members of Parliament should write to the Tribunal putting their cases on this matter. 
Let me give a striking illustration of how members of Parliament are treated. I have noticed for years the number of cars that stand outside Parliament House waiting for Ministers, their secretaries, the girls on their staffs and so on. When I passed through Sydney  en route  to north Queensland, I noticed that girls from ministerial staffs had cars provided for them. What was the situation when I reached my home city? For a great many years- the situation changed only when  Mr Anthony  became Minister for the Interior, as the portfolio was then called- I had to find my own way to and from the airport in my home city. If I got off the aircraft in Sydney I noticed that there was no car for the members but girls on the office staff and on ministerial staff had been provided for. Our Leader,  Senator Withers,  has given the Opposition an opportunity to have this matter put on a proper basis. I think that each and every one of us, if we desire, should present our case to the Remuneration Tribunal so that we can get clarification and a proper settlement of this matter. I was seriously disturbed at the attitude of the Government in wiping out the amount of money which had been set aside for overseas travel. Whether it was right or wrong or over-generous- and it was- does not matter. The previous Minister had arranged for this amount to be provided during the life of each Parliament. Some parliamentarians had not used up their entitlement, which they were able to accumulate for 2 years. Other parliamentarians had used all or most of their allocation. This entitlement was wiped out at the stroke of a pen. Those who had not used their allocationthere were a lot of members, including myselfhad no opportunity to use it at all. In that way I think an inequality built up among the politicians. There were those who jumped in and got their allocation and those who, probably for other reasons, could not act immediately and so lost it. This indicates that there has to be a sense of fairness in dealing with these things. 
As far as overseas travel is concerned, I do not think I could be said to be one of the greedy ones. I am serving my twenty-seventh year here and until about 18 months ago I had one government trip overseas. I think that is a record which could not be outshone by anybody in the chamber. The only reason why I received my next trip, as I think the former Whip here could tell honourable senators, was that one of our members who had been selected to go to a Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference at Sri Lanka cancelled for his own reasons and I was requested to fill that vacancy. Nobody can say that I have been a shark as far as overseas trips are concerned. If honourable senators look at the record they will see that I am the lightest of all in weighing on the Government. These facilities have to be thought out properly. When they are established they should be fixed and they should not be removed, as the Minister said, at the discretion of the Minister or of the Executive. 
Now that the situation has arisen in the way in which it has, I think the Minister has done the sensible and practical thing. It is up to each and every one of us to write to the Tribunal so that the idea behind the Minister's report today is carried out to the fullest and so that each and every one of us can get what is regarded as a fair amount of privilege as members of Parliament. If I travel at my own expense overseas or anywhere else, I travel first class. An attitude has built up that if one goes to the Federal Parliament one really downgrades oneself. I understand that the State parliamentarians travel first class. They have certain privileges which we do not have. We should not downgrade ourselves. Therefore I press each honourable senator here to make his request to the Tribunal for what he really thinks he is entitled to. 
I present the following petition from 2456 electors of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned electors of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That the three service cadet forces have great value in the development of the youth of Australia. 
That the disbanding of the cadet forces will disperse accumulated expertise and interest of those involved, and in some cases negate the efforts of many people over many years. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will reconsider its decision and that the Government will reinstate the cadet forces. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that 3 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Lands Acquisition Ordinance 1975 as contained in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Ordinance No. 5 of 1975 and made under the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1955-75 be disallowed. 
I  bring up the fifty-second report from the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Lands Acquisition Ordinance 1975. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Misrepresentation Ordinance 1975, as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 40 of 1975, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance 1975, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 41 of 1975, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That paragraphs (d) and (e) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Flammable Liquids Ordinance 1976, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 2 of 1 976, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the following regulations be disallowed- 
Regulation 2 of the amendments of the Defence Force (Salaries) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1976 No. 3), and made under the Defence Act 1903-1975. the Naval Defence Act 1910-1975 and the Air Force Act 1923-1975. 
The amendments of the Military Financial Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1976 No. 7, and made under the Defence Act 1903-1975. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That Regulation 13 of the amendments of the Australian Rifle Club Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1976 No. 37, and made under the Defence Act 1903-1975, be disallowed. 
I desire to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. In view of the fact that the Women's Liberation Movement believes that women and men should be equal and that the Government has appointed a women's adviser at a salary of $24,000 a year, following the silly nonsense of the previous Government, will the Government consider appointing a special men's adviser to the Government on such problems as abandoned husbands in order to spend more of this country's money and to bring about equality of the sexes, as desired by the Women's Liberation Movement? 
-Mr Bray's affidavit contains some very important allegations. He says that he was informed that a statement was made by  Mr Shanahan  which laid certain charges against  Mr Norm  Bray. He,  Mr Norm  Bray, was not then or later, despite his requests, given a copy of the statement which was made by  Mr Shanahan  making allegations against  Mr Bray.  But notwithstanding the fact that  Mr Bray  was never shown a copy of the document upon which the allegations were made he was dismissed from his office and suspended from membership in the union. 

 -As Chairman of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I presented the report to the Senate. I referred at that stage to some of the details of the report which related, of course, to the work undertaken last year. The Ministers to whom I referred in the report were Ministers in the previous Government. In the short speech I made when presenting the report I paid tribute to the excellent work of my predecessor as  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Devitt.  I paid tribute also to the Committee itself for the diligent way in which it handled the reference before it. I think that over a period of years we have been very fortunate in the composition of the Committee. I should like to pay tribute to those who have been on this Committee in the past for their ability, their qualities and the way in which they have applied themselves to the work of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. When I presented the report I omitted to thank the Secretary of the Committee. We are very fortunate to have  Mr Harry  Evans now as Secretary of the Committee. I should like to pay a tribute to the keenness which he displays in the Committee's work and to the study which he gives to every aspect of it. 
The Senate is aware that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee operates under 4 rules. They are, firstly, that the regulations and ordinances are in accordance with the statute; secondly, that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; thirdly, that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions; and, fourthly, that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. I think that those rules have to be kept clearly in mind. Quite often people want the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to look at a regulation when it would be going outside the ambit of those 4 rules to do so. We do not consider the policy associated with a particular regulation. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to one aspect of the report to indicate how one of these important rules was, according to the Committee's view, infringed by the postal services regulations and the Postal By-laws. The Committee stated: 
These Regulations and By-laws contain provisions empowering officers of the Postal Commission to open and dispose of mail in certain circumstances. The Committee regards these as unduly infringing the rights and liberties of citizens. The Committee considers that the right to privacy of mail is an important right of the individual and ought to be abridged only pursuant to law, and with proper safeguards against misuse of the powers conferred by law. 
As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Minister agreed to alter the regulations to comply with the Committee's views and requests. This is an indication of how the Committee, through its excellent legal adviser who scrutinises regulations, is able to pick up these particular points. I mention that matter to indicate the closeness with which the Committee has to look at regulations and the way in which they affect individuals. 
One of the very fine principles that has been established by the Committee over a number of years is that the Committee acts on the highest parliamentary basis. It is entirely free of any Party political views. 1 think that that speaks volumes for the honourable senators who, over the years, have comprised the Committee. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee takes a view based on an absolutely parliamentary basis, because it is a parliamentary committee. That is why I have always been proud to be a member of this Committee and to have been its  Chairman  for so long. I believe that the work of the Committee has been of such great value that the Committee has achieved not only credit in this country but also an importance in the view of people who understand this work. 
I remind honourable senators that it is not so many years ago-about 3 years ago- that the British House of Commons wrote to me as the then  Chairman  of the Regulation and Ordinances Committee and asked whether we would set out a complete charter of the work which a similar committee in Britain could do. We all know that the British Parliament is regarded as being the mother of all parliaments. That is the Parliament to which most other parliaments write to obtain advice. But on this occasion the British House of Commons asked us for advice. The members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and myself got together and set out what we thought a similar committee in Britain should do. 
Because of the work done by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee over the years, other parliaments outside Australia and also within Australia have set up similar committees. I know that Victoria and one or two of the other States have set up similar committees. Recently we had a visit from the new Queensland Subordinate Legislation Committee, which is similar to our Regulations and Ordinances Committee. That Committee has just commenced to function in this area in the Queensland Parliament. I know that over the years, because of the merit that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has earned in the eyes of the parliaments in Australia and in the minds of the people who realise the great value of the Committee's work, efforts have been made by private members in the State parliaments to set up similar committees. We have had visits from similar committees when they have been set up in other States. We have talked to those committees and have provided them with material to help them in their work in this very important parliamentary area. This is the report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for 1975. I hope that honourable senators will read it and will realise more than ever that it is important that this Committee should carry out its functions on the basis on which it has operated for so many years. 
-I heard what  Senator Cavanagh  said, I heard  Senator O  'Byrne's interjection and I listened with interest to what  Senator Georges  said. I do not think the arguments advanced by the Opposition in relation to its objections to the recommendations of the Commission are valid. I do not read out the recommendations of the Commission.  Senator Thomas  read them into the  Hansard  record. 1 intend to read other extracts from the Commission's report. I think they are relevant for the purposes of this debate. The majority of the Commission said: 
The Commission proposes restoration in the belief that on balance it would be reasonable to give using industries the benefit of the doubt pending completion of its inquiry and Government consideration of its full report. It does this notwithstanding its view that at this stage of the inquiry the weight of argument suggests that the various proposed objectives of such assistance could be achieved at lower cost through more direct measures. Many of the arguments for and against assistance on the grounds of improved efficiency in the use of resources are, of course, not dependent upon the degree of prosperity within particular industries. 
Again the Commission said: 
Whilst essentially a makeshift restoration of the bounty at the previous level and conditions would largely avoid a deterioration in user situations being aggravated by government action before the question of assistance was fully examined the Commission acknowledges that the bounty that operated until the end of 1974 would now represent a much smaller proportion of fertiliser costs than it did in previous years. 
Finally, the Commission stated: 
Having regard to the recent developments in price relativities the  uncertainties  to which they give rise and their destabilising effects on incomes in several rural industries, including some which are relatively low cost, the Commission will recommend restoration of the bounty which lapsed at the end of 1 974 as a short term measure. 
The Government is giving effect to that recommendation of an independent commission which was charged by the previous Government to investigate the whole question. Why, therefore, unless it be in terms of doctrinaire rigidity and adherence to ideological concepts, is the Opposition opposing what we are doing? I listened to what was said by the various honourable senators who spoke on behalf of the Opposition.  Senator Gietzelt,  I suppose in a newly imposed role of spokesman on agricultural interests in this country, first addressed himself on behalf of the Opposition to this measure. I do not think he would object to my describing what he said as a political exercise. He attempted to justify the Whitlam Government's highly controversial action in repealing the superphosphate bounty in 1 974 by saying that the action was based upon a concept that some people benefited who did not desire to benefit and other people were not receiving any benefit. It was typical of the Marxistoriented political shibboleths which dominate the Labor Party's thinking today. 
I take up the Labor Party's argument- of course large consumers will receive larger benefits than small consumers. Of course large property owners will apply larger quantities of superphosphate, otherwise there is no point in using superphosphate. Accordingly, the benefit which they receive will be the greater. But when  Senator Gietzelt  makes statements such as: There is no relationship to need' and: 'There is no relationship to production', I think he is disclosing a lack of appreciation of the purposes for which superphosphate is purchased and applied. People do not buy superphosphate simply to secure a bounty. People do not buy superphosphate because they are going to put into their pockets some money which the Government gives them. Yet this is the sort of argument that the Labor Party has used for 2 days in this place. There is no receipt of money from the Government by people who use superphosphate, but one would scarcely believe that on listening to what honourable senators from the Labor Party have said. 

 Senator Gietzelt suggested that in some way a means test ought to be imposed on the person buying the superphosphate to determine whether superphosphate is to be purchased with the bounty applied. If we were to adopt a concept of that character there would be no point in having any bounty. Superphosphate is not related to the means of the person who is buying it. Surely it is related to the quality of the soil onto which it is to be applied. Superphosphate is related to the productivity of pastures and not to people's incomes. Nor is it related to the value of their properties. If tests were to be applied based on the quality of the soil, based on the cadmium concentrates, based on the proximity of the soil on which the superphosphate was to be spread to the catchment areas of town water supplies, or if some regard were to be given to the effect of superphosphate on natural eco-systems which ought to be preserved, these would be standards which would have some relevance. I suspect that those are the considerations which will be investigated by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I think it is important to recognise that amongst the honourable senators who have spoken for the Government, scarcely one- if any- has not acknowledged that whether superphosphate should be available indiscriminately across the board is a matter of judgment. There are questions which have to be answered and an objective inquiry is the best way of answering questions such as whether a bounty on the purchase of superphosphate should be applied to every purchaser, irrespective of the soil or property on which the superphosphate is to be spread. 
We have heard some curious arguments.  Senator Walsh  advanced an argument which I thought  Senator Cormack  dealt with very clearly.  Senator Walsh  spoke for almost an hour but I doubt if the points he was endeavouring to make impacted upon those who listened. I listened for the full hour. He said something which I think reflects the muddled thinking in which he was involved. He put forward an argument concerning the productive quality of the soil and asked: 'What does productivity of the soil really matter?' I wonder what farmers would think about an argument which advanced that concept. He expressed the view that it was a pity that the forests had disappeared. I would not have thought that that was a farmer's argument. It may be a conservationist's argument. Would Australia be the country it is today if our ancestors had decided to leave the forests where they were and not to engage in the agrarian pursuits which made Australia the nation it is? We had a most curious argument from  Senator Primmer.  I am just taking aspects of the arguments of Labor Party senators.  Senator Primmer  advanced the argument, as I understood it, that really we should not be granting this superphosphate bounty because after all its carriage has a great impact on the local country roads. 
On the other hand I am fully conscious of the arguments which were raised by the speakers who supported the Government case.  Senator Scott,  in what I think was a wholly reasonable appraisal of the issue, drew attention to the fact that it was an Industries Assistance Commission report which was being implemented by this decision. He pointed to the fact, which I think ought not be forgotten, that in recent years the real farm income of rural industries has dropped from some $ 1,370m in 1972-73 to approximately $850m, estimated, in this current financial year. That is the situation of our rural industries in this country at the present time. If there is a measure which is going to help productivity, which is going to aid profitability and therefore offer a prospect of augmenting farm incomes we ought to be prepared to welcome a measure of that category. We believe that the restoration of this bounty is a measure which, not wholly but as a contributing factor, will help productivity and therefore help profitability.  Senator Scott  pointed to the fact that over the years there has been an increase in the price of superphosphate. It was $35 a tonne 3 years ago. It is now $60 a tonne. The bounty 3 years ago represented 42 per cent of the cost. Now it represents approximately 20 per cent of the cost. Australia is a country which is deficient in the phosphate quality of its soil. If we can ensure that deficiency is made up by offering an encouragement such as this bounty, obviously we are improving our production ability. 
Parliament a list showing the names and addresses of all companies and individuals whose purchases of superphosphate and ammonium phosphate exceeds 400 tonnes in a 12-months period, and a list showing the amount of benefit accruing to such companies and individuals. ' 
The case which was put for this amendment was exceedingly weak. Why should there be tabled in a House of Parliament the names of the persons who receive the particular benefit which goes to those who purchase superphosphate? If those names are to be published why do we say that it is only those who purchased 400 tonnes? Why should the names of those who purchased 300 tonnes, 200 tonnes or 50 tonnes not also be published? Why is the Opposition so concerned to have some people's names published? We are not given that sort of answer. The best one can look for by way of justification is something which the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  said when he was Minister for Agriculture when he first adopted this practice in September of last year. He simply said that the Government was entitled to know and to have the information before it as evidence of the inequitable nature of the distribution of the superphosphate bounty. 
We know that when either  Senator Wriedt  or  Senator Cavanagh-  I forget who it was- tabled such a statement for the first time in 1975 that statement had to be corrected within a month because it was inaccurate. Risks of that type are always present when one embarks on an exercise of that type. The point that I make is that there is no occasion or justification for engaging in this sort of tactic. How different the Labor Party is when it is in Opposition after its pretensions to government have been exposed in the light of all the promises it once made. I sat in this chamber for years and I heard what  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wriedt  said, and I read what  Mr Hayden  had said, about the Labor Party's claimed desire to protect the privacy of individuals. I have read what the Labor Party's platform says. I have read what its Press statements said.  Mr Hayden  said in September 1973: 
The absence of any legal redress or control by individuals in the field of personal medical privacy in general is totally unsatisfactory. 
In appointing a committee, he said: 
Its first task will be to make recommendations on the manner in which unwarranted invasions of privacy which at present exist and for which there is potential on large-scale administrative operations such as health insurance may be guarded against. 
The concern there- and I applaud that concernwas to protect individual privacy. I am equally concerned to protect the privacy of those people who decide that they want to apply a superphosphate to their properties. Why should their privacy be invaded any more than the privacy of the medical practitioners, the chemists and the patients under the medical health schemes who receive benefits? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 

 In Committee 

The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! Is it the wish of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole? 
I wish to inform the Senate that it is my intention to vote against this proposal by the Government. I feel that this action which will eliminate the funeral benefit touches on the hearts and minds of people and appears to be a very mean action. I think that the people who inspired this decision are totally lacking in political intelligence. Such a proposal suggests that the Government should have a fresh look at the situation. 
I do not blame the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on whom I look as a most capable Minister who performs her duty, I believe, to a very high standard. I believe that this proposal demonstrates one of the situations that has developed as a result of the Government asking departments to reduce expenditure by a certain percentage. As a consequence, this benefit was slaughtered. The amount of money that is involved is less than $2m. When considered in relation to a warm, human approach to the welfare of people, the amount that the benefit costs this country each year is really infinitesimal. 
Let me put to the Senate the way in which I view this matter. Whilst we are trying to economise in certain ways, this does not mean that areas of merit which require certain funds should not be considered. If the amount of the funeral benefit had been doubled, the cost to the nation would not have increased by another $2m. 
Surely in the cuts that are being made, some consideration might have been given to this aspect. I feel that the decision which has been made in this respect is a case where the Government has made a very grave mistake. Personally, when the decision was first announced, I could hardly believe that it was a decision of the Government. 
In my view, nothing affects people more in relation to the warm human side of life than the area touched by this benefit. I cannot think of any aspect that touches the hearts and minds of people more than the passing of a person and the necessity to see that that person's remains are dealt with properly. People like to see that the deceased is given the type of burial that he or she would wish. 
To me this is a decision of a piffling nature on a matter which from a financial point of view has no consequence to this nation. Surely it is a decision on which this Government should have second thoughts. It should resolve to renege on the decision which it made previously. If it wants to be really generous and big hearted, it should give consideration not to eliminating the benefit but to increasing it. 
I am now in my 27th year of serving in the Liberal Party in the Senate. The one aspect of that Party of which I am most proud is the freedom of its members to exercise their votes in accordance with the dictates of their conscience. 
-No. The Liberal Party has always re-endorsed me. Back home, the people in the Liberal Party- they are the true people, not the people in Parliament- have sent me here each time. As far as I am concerned, while I am here I will always vote according to the dictates of my conscience. As a consequence, I will vote against this clause of the Bill. 
I just want to say a few words. First of all, let me say again that it is a recognised principle of the Liberal Party that members of the Party have the freedom of our conscience. It is well for the members of the Opposition and for the Senate to know this. It is well also for some of our Ministers to know it. Unfortunately, Ministers come into office and at times become very arrogant. I take the view that some of the expressions that we have heard from the Minister for Social Security contain a threat to this effect: That if we do not pass clause 7 something else will not be given to the pensioners. I think that it is for the Government to decide whether those people will be paid once the Senate makes its decision on this legislation. The blame does not come back to the people who are prepared to stand up and oppose a particular section of this Bill. I heard this sort of argument over a number of years when we were in office previously. I will not be frightened by it. The suggestion is that those of us on this side of the chamber who are talking and voting in this way are not acting in accordance with what our Party desires. If that is the way in which the Ministers are talking they are beginning to get out of touch with the senators. I will not be frightened on the matter. 
Question put: 
That the clause stand as printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement relating to business of the Senate notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. 
I present the following petition from 4097 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate weights and measures of this country is causing and will cause widespread inconvenience, confusion, expense and distress. 
That there is no certainty that any significant benefits or indeed any benefits at all will follow the use of the new weights and measures. 
That the traditional weights and measures are eminently satisfactory. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed, and that the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional and familiar units to be restored to those areas where the greatest inconvenience and distress are occurring, that is to say, in meteorology, in road distances, in sport, in the building and allied trades, in the printing trade, and in retail trade. 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I bring up the 53rd and 54th reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Australian Capital Territory Representation Ordinance 1975 and the Australian Capital Territory Manufacturers Warranty Ordinance 1975 respectively. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
This notice of motion relates to provisions in the Flammable Liquids Ordinance 1976 of the Australian Capital Territory which empower an inspector to destroy or render harmless flammable liquids or dangerous goods where he considers it in the public interest to do so. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances considers that there ought to be some opportunity for a person aggrieved by the inspector's use of his powers to seek redress against the wrongful use of those powers. After correspondence with the Committee, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has agreed to amend the provisions in question so that an inspector may take such action only when he believes on reasonable grounds that it is necessary to do so. This will make the use of his powers subject to review by the courts. In view of the undertaking given by the Minister, I withdraw Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 3. 
Not formal,  Mr President.  I seek leave to make a statement in relation to this notice of motion. 

 Senator WOOD (Queensland)-This notice of motion relates to 2 sets of regulations which provide for the payment of allowances to members of the defence force and which are retrospective for more than 2 years. In accordance with the undertaking given to the Senate in its 25th report, the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances required the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to give detailed explanations of the reasons for the retrospectivity. The Minister has conceded that unsatisfactory delays have occurred in the making of the regulations and has assured the Committee that this will be drawn to the attention of those concerned. The Minister has also explained that the retrospectivity of the regulations was due partly to the change of government on 1 1 November 1975. The Committee has accepted the Minister's explanation and assurance, and accordingly I withdraw Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 4. 
Not formal,  Mr President.  I seek leave to move a motion to postpone this notice of motion. 
Motion (by  Senator Wood)  agreed to: 
That Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 5 be postponed to 5 sitting days after today. 
Not formal,  Mr President.  On behalf of  Senator Wright  and at his request, I seek leave to move a motion to postpone this notice of motion. 
Motion (by  Senator Wood)  agreed to: 
That Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 6 be postponed to 5 sitting days after today. 
Generally speaking, I am sure that honourable senators opposite as well as honourable senators on this side of the chamber very deeply regret the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in regard to the late Shane Paltridge. As one who, like  Senator Wright,  served with  Senator Paltridge  during the whole of his Senate career, I say that I found him to be, to the best of my knowledge, a very down to earth, practical parliamentarian. I believe he was a very honourable man. I would be amazed if any evidence could be produced to show that the late Shane Paltridge was anything but an honest man. I believe that he carried out his duties in this chamber in a very sincere and dedicated manner. He attempted to do what he believed was his best for this country. 
In those circumstances, I very much regret that the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition, should make this charge against a man who has been deceased for a number of years. It is a charge which will cause serious distress, I am sure, to people such as his widow. I think that we, at this time, should be thinking of her distress and the strain which she will be going through because of this very serious charge made by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to her late husband. Therefore, I am very sorry to know that the Leader of the Opposition has lowered himself to make those charges in public about a man who has passed on. I think, in the hearts and minds of us who are decent citizens, we do not like to see a man who has passed on being attacked. A deceased man does not have an opportunity to defend himself. 
Another name has been mentioned in this controversy that is taking place as a result of the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer to John Somerville Smith. It has been inferred- I have heard this stated- that the information used by  Mr Whitlam  came to him from John Somerville Smith. I rang  Mr Somerville  Smith this evening and he completely denied that he has had anything to do with  Mr Whitlam  on this statement or that he has had any dealings with him. 
I want to say this: As far as  Mr John  Somerville Smith is concerned, he paid the penalty for what he did on the occasion to which reference has been made. The courts of the State passed their sentence on him and he paid the penalty. Here again, we have a man who has a wife and family. I think that to drag up things for which a man has paid the penalty makes him re-live the murky past and causes distress to his wife and his relatives. Under these circumstances, I think that we are not justified in raking things up about this man who has already paid the penalty. I want to make it quite clear that  Mr Somerville  Smith has told me that under no circumstances did he give the information to  Mr Whitlam  which  Mr Whitlam  has put forward. I want to make this stand on his behalf. I think that in dealing with these things we have to be fair and we have to have regard not only to the participant but also to other people who might be very seriously hurt in these matters. 
In conclusion I should like to say that I think the statement about the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge is a most regrettable one- a debasing one. I think the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  has lowered himself considerably in the eyes of the decent thinking people of Australia. I hope that when this incident is recalled, it will be remembered that the information did not come from  Mr John  Somerville Smith to  Mr Whitlam,  as some people say, but that  Mr Whitlam  must have obtained this information from some other source or must have generated it within his own mind. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Environment- and all the other aspects that he represents. Is the report in a newspaper this morning correct that the Minister is pressing for the continuation of the development of growth schemes in all centres in Australia, particularly in southern Australia, with the one exception of Townsville in north Queensland? If the report is correct, I ask the Minister why there is this discrimination in favour of the other States against the State of Queensland? Is it because he feels that the Queensland people are so independently minded that they do not want to be directed where to work and where to live in pursuance of the socialistic schemes generated by the Labor Government and being continued by this Government? If that is not the reason, what is? 
Has the Minister for Education noticed considerable comment in recent times from leading educational personalities related to the fact that today the students of this country are uneducated to the extent that they are considered illiterate, that is, they cannot spell, read or add up and they do not have the basic requirements pf education? ls he aware also that applicants for travel agency work do not even know where cities such as New York or Vienna or islands such as Fiji are situated, indicating an absolute ignorance of geography? In view of the great sums of money that the Government is providing for education and of the concern in the community for this subject, will the Minister and the Government make it mandatory that children are taught those basic elements of education? 
-I ask for leave to make a statement concerning the notices of motion standing in my name and in the name of  Senator Wright  under Business of the Senate. 
-I present the fifty-fifth report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to Australian Capital Territory Ordinances containing substantive legislation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
(Queensland)- I give notice that 6 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the City Area Leases Ordinance 1976, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 12 of 1976 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 19 10- 1973, be disallowed. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the 55th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to Australian Capital 
Territory Ordinances containing substantive legislation, and presented to the Senate on 27 May 1 976, be adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Science a question. What is the balance of the cost involved in introducing metrication to the Commonwealth of Australia? In view of the Government's professed intention to cut back expenditure, does the Minister not consider that any further cost associated with metrication might well be deferred? 

 -Mr President - 
This is no confessional. I am deeply concerned with the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill and the Health Insurance Levy Bill because they could mean the abandonment of something which has operated in Queensland for many years; namely, the free hospital scheme. I think this is something which Queenslanders, over a period of years, have looked upon with a degree of pride. The scheme has given a service to those people who are not so very well financially placed. Because this proposed levy will be uniform throughout Australia it means that those people who previously secured hospital services free will now have to pay through this levy. I feel that the Government should give consideration to the existence of that scheme in Queensland. I think it should consider every possible way for the maintenance of that scheme. My own view is that there will be deep resentment in Queensland at the loss of this scheme. 1 know that the present Queensland Government- like the governments before it- wants to see this scheme maintained. I am pleased to see that Government take this stand because I think this levy is a downward step for those of us in my State of Queensland. 
I think the Government should consider very deeply before it proceeds with this scheme if it means the elimination of free hospitalisation in Queensland. The Premier of Queensland made the suggestion that possibly there might be a differential in the rate of levy in Queensland, say a half rate levy, which would give the opportunity for such a free hospital scheme to continue to operate. I have discussed this matter with the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and while he has not given any indication of acceptance of the suggestion, I do not feel that he is hostile to it. I do not want to commit him in any way because he gave no commitment. But I felt that he listened to my suggestion and I do not believe that he showed any antagonism towards it. 
No. I am concerned about this matter because as a Queenslander I am proud of the scheme operating in Queensland. I am not taking part in this debate because my friend  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned my name in his remarks. My name was already on the speakers' list. I think it needs to be stated that we in Queensland stand firmly on this matter. Therefore, I think that the Government should give every consideration to Queensland's position. I will not be happy with the Bill which imposes the levy for Medibank until we get something clearer from the Government in this regard. I do not think that we should take a backward step. I think that the Government might well consider extending throughout Australia the system that has operated in Queensland. We know that the service that is provided in Queensland has to be paid for by somebody, but the people who use the service receive it as a free service. Because of the satisfaction that the scheme in Queensland has given over the years I feel strongly that the Government should give consideration to the continuation of the scheme. If there is any difficulty in having one State in and the other States out, why not look at the possibility of extending the scheme to the whole of Australia. Under those circumstances I am very concerned about the Bill which imposes the Medibank levy. I will not be in favour of it unless we get some indication that the free scheme in Queensland can continue. 
I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the notice of motion standing in my name. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
This notice of motion relates to an amendment of the Australian Capital Territory City Area Leases Ordinance, which repealed and remade, in modified form, the provisions in the principal Ordinance which make it a criminal offence for a lessee to use his lease for a purpose not specified in the lease. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee recalled the opinion which it expressed some years ago, when criminal penalties were inserted in the Ordinance, that breach of lease purpose is a civil matter and is not appropriate for the criminal jurisdiction. In relation to the present Ordinance, the Committee considered the provisions objectionable in that a person who committed a merely technical or trivial breach of a lease purpose in relation to a residential lease would be subject to the penalties provided by the Ordinance. It was considered that such a person ought to have a defence, for example, something to the effect that the breach he committed did not disturb the planning of the city. The Committee also considered that another provision in the Ordinance was unnecessarily harsh. This was a provision whereby a lessee would be guilty of an offence if he failed to furnish a statement in response to a notice requiring him to state the name of a person using or occupying a lease. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has considered the views of the Committee, and has given an undertaking that the Ordinance will be amended so that the question of breach of lease purpose will be transferred from the criminal law to the civil law. Where it is considered that a lessee has used his lease for a purpose not authorised by the lease, an application may be made to the courts for an order directing the lessee to take such action as may be necessary to stop the unauthorised use of the land. In the event of noncompliance with a court order, the court will be empowered to impose a penalty. 
The Committee considers that these proposed amendments will properly safeguard the rights and liberties of lessees, and put leases back into the civil law where they belong. The Committee deprecates the tendency to introduce criminal penalties into areas, such as contracts, which properly belong to the civil law. This morning the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  gave me an assurance that he will have the whole of the Ordinance reviewed so that the Committee will have a further opportunity to consider the Ordinance. 
I would also like to point out that the difficulties involved with the Ordinance arise from the decision, which apparently was taken very many years ago, to use lease purpose clauses as an instrument of town planning, instead of a proper town plan in the form of a law to which all citizens must conform. In view of the Minister's undertaking to amend the Ordinance, 1 withdraw the notice of motion standing in my name. I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation in relation to this matter. 
I give notice that 6 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That Amendment No. 6 of the Telecommunications (General) By-laws, made on 20 May 1976 under the Telecommunications Act 1 975 be disallowed. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Did he see in the Press a report of a conference at the weekend at which the Labor shadow AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Bowen,  stated that the Senate has no power to dismiss a government by refusing Supply? Does that view fit in with the view expressed in this chamber by former  Senator Murphy,  now  Mr Justice  Murphy, and the view expressed by  Mr Whitlam  before he became Prime Minister of Australia? Can the Minister also relate that view to the views of other great constitutionalists on this question? 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Industrial Relations Ordinance 1976, as contained in Christmas Island Ordinance No. I of 1976, and made under the Christmas Island Act 1 958, be disallowed. 
I ask leave to make a statement in relation to this notice of motion. 
I rise to support this very fine motion of sympathy moved by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  and so very well supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and honourable senators generally. I rise because there is one aspect of  Senator Greenwood's  work which has not been touched upon by previous speakers in this chamber; that is the 3-year term that he served as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I have served on that Committee for almost 27 years, with almost 20 years as  Chairman.  In that time I have seen some very capable and outstanding senators serve on that Committee and render great service to the Parliament and this country. Senatory Ivor Greenwood was one of the outstanding senators who served on that Committee. He was a very valuable member because of his great legal knowledge, combined with his parliamentary knowledge. 
I found him a very warm, friendly and human person. He was a very sincere person with whom one could easily have a conversation and discuss matters. What I liked about him was that, whatever he believed in, he believed in strongly. He was not a half-baked Liberal. He really put his feet firmly on the ground and stood behind what he believed were Liberal principles. He was a man of great courage and had, I think, one of the nicest and most attractive personalities that one could meet in a man. I feel that his honesty of purpose and sincerity are something which will always remain in the hearts and minds of those of us who had the great privilege and honour of serving with him. With his passing at such an early age the State of Victoria, which he served as a senator, has sustained a great loss. Australia has sustained an even greater loss. Those of us in this chamber and in the Parliament have, I believe, lost someone whom we could always look upon as a friendly person, whether we were on his side of politics or the other side. Ivor Greenwood was a Christian man. He believed in his Christian principles. I hope that his soul will rest in accordance with his beliefs. 1 found him a very valuable friend, a warm and friendly person. I extend my sympathy to his wife and family. I hope his work in this Parliament and in other fields over the years will always remain as a memorial to the great man that he was, to the great Australian and the great parliamentarian that he was. I hope his work will always be remembered for its quality and its sincerity. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  of  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the fifty-sixth report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to certain retrospective regulations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask a simple question of the Minister for Science in view of the fact that Ministers and parliamentarians often speak in language that people do not understand. In answering the question about the Tasmanian Premier's accusations the Minister said that we are not going to throw money around as if it was water, as we did last year. Who does he mean threw money around like that last year? Was it the Liberal-Country Party Government of which he is a Minister? I ask him for some clarification. 
-On the same line as  Senator Georges  was speaking, all I want to say is that I think the points he brought forward deserve serious consideration. There is no doubt that there have been statements from time to time indicating a looseness in the administration of the Australia Council and also some extravagance. I think that most of us are keen to see the standard of arts maintained and improved in Australia. The best way that this can be done is to have an efficient organisation so that as much money as possible might be directed specifically to that purpose. I think the points brought forward by  Senator Georges  deserve the earnest consideration of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to eliminate any extravagance in the Estimates. 
Listening to this debate- 
I am referring to the matter on which  Senator Cavanagh  was speaking. Because he has a clear, analytical mind I was surprised to hear him say that the Senate had no power to reject a Supply Bill. It is rather amazing that he should say that, because his own leader, 

 Mr Whitlam, when Leader of the Opposition, clearly stated - 
I am talking about the Department of Administrative Services. In reply to what  Senator Cavanagh  said, I recall to his mind that the leader of his own party,  Mr Whitlam,  stated as Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives that the Opposition would vote against the Government on a Supply Bill, that if it did not win there it would vote against it in the Senate and that if it were defeated in the Senate- he thought that Labor would have the support of the Democratic Labor Party on that occasion because of criticism that it had offeredthe Government would be forced to resign. Not one member of the Labor Party objected to that statement at the time. In this chamber  Senator Murphy,  the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, also supported that - 
I am very concerned about the size of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I refer to divisions 305, 306 and 308 under which we propose to spend $432,127,000. This is a department which has become of immense proportions. I think it is one that should be looked at very closely. We should look not only at administrative costs and the costs of the Overseas Service but also at the costs of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. There should be some clarification and clearer thought should be given to whom we assist. I know money has been thrown around. We have given money to communist countries such as Mozambique. We throw our money around and try to give the impression that we are big shots in world affairs. Actually the activities involved with the Department of Foreign Affairs rather dazzle our Prime Ministers and our Ministers for Foreign Affairs. They get the impression that they are so important that they must make statements on the international scene. They get the impression that because of their great importance the whole world shivers and shakes when they make these statements. We should get a proper perspective of ourselves in the foreign affairs field, because we are only peanuts in world affairs. 
Yes. We are only peanuts on the international scene. Therefore it is time that we took a true rating of ourselves and gained a better perspective of how we rate overseas. Not only  Mr Whitlam  but also our own present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are guilty of these things. When  Mr Whitlam  was Prime Minister he galloped around the world creating, as he thought, a tremendous impression. So much did he become imbued by this galloping around in connection with the international affairs aspect of government that he decided to make a special study of ruins in different countries. What was the result? He eventually ruined his own Government and almost ruined the Labor Party. Now our present Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  are beginning to 'do a Whitlam' and gallop around the world also. What have they done? Have they achieved one success as a result of the various gallops they have done around the world? Of course they have not. They are held up to ridicule in some cases. What happened in China? They went to China and slobbered over the Chinese. Because of some silly statement that was made their visit finished up in an atmosphere of controversy. Was there any gain to the Government, to the Liberal Party or to the country? Of course there was not. Then there was that silly intrusion into Timor. The statement was made that the Indonesians should not be in Timor. Do we want the Fretilin commos there? Of course we do not. 
No, we do not want them there. The point is that Timor is one of our closest neighbours. What we want is stability and safety for this country. Our Foreign Ministers and our Prime Ministers get the idea that they must butt into every aspect of foreign affairs. What did they do? They butted into the situation in South Africa and Rhodesia. Of course those countries should have certain governments. What has that to do with us? We reached the ridiculous stage the other day of the Government refusing to allow 2 people to take part in a yachting contest because they belonged to South Africa. How childish and silly can we get? It is the dazzle of the Department of Foreign Affairs that makes them think that they must intrude, that they must say things in order to show their importance on the world scene. I say to Fraser and to Peacock, just as I said to Whitlam, that this country would be better off if they shut their mouths and stayed at home and looked after this country. 
The high expenditure on matters concerned with foreign affairs has become very great over the years. It is something that this country cannot really afford. Australia might profess to be a developed country but, in my opinion, it is still developing. We would do much better if we used some of that money in developing this country and providing better conditions for some of our people, particularly those in the outer regions of this large area of land which is Australia, so that they might have a better standard of living, instead of our worrying about some other people who probably do not need our concern so much. I am greatly concerned at the volume of expenditure that this Department has built up over the years. In my opinion, it is, to a very great extent, a waste of money. 

 - Senator Harradine has finished his speech, so there is no point of order involved. 
by leave- I wish to make a statement relating to 2 notices of motion standing in my name. The first of these notices of motion relates to by-laws made by the Telecommunications Commission under the Telecommunications Act. Amendment No. 6 of these by-laws was intended, amongst other things, according to the explanatory memorandum, to prohibit 'hoax calls' on the telephone system. The relevant provision made it an offence to 'send over a telecommunications service a fictitious order, instructions or message, or any false information or message knowing the same to be false'. Such a provision not only would prohibit what are usually described as hoax calls' but also would make it an offence for any person who correctly identifies himself to tell a lie in the course of a telephone conversation. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances considers that it is not the function of the law to police the truthfulness of genuine telephone calls. The Telecommunications Commission agreed to amend the by-law so as to restrict it to its stated purpose. The amendment has now been made. 
The second of these 2 notices of motion relates to the Industrial Relations Ordinance of Christmas Island. When I gave notice of motion I explained to the Senate that the notice was intended to give the Committee time to continue its inquiries. The Committee was concerned with a number of provisions in the Ordinance relating to the powers of the arbitrator to be appointed under the Ordinance and the rights of persons appearing before the arbitrator or liable to be bound by his decisions. The Committee has had correspondence with the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and has taken evidence from officers of the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. These inquiries have satisfied the Committee in relation to the Ordinance, except with regard to one provision. The Minister has agreed in principle to amend a section of the Ordinance so that persons may not be bound by the arbitrator's decisions without being given an opportunity to be heard. The Minister has also taken administrative action to give effect to this principle. The Committee is satisfied with this action. In view of the actions taken by the Minister for Administrative Services and the Telecommunications Commission in relation to these matters, I withdraw Business of the Senate notices of motion Nos 1 and 2 standing in my name. 
Sitting suspended from  1.1  to  2.15  p.m. 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objecton to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition form 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Member of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question concerning the Prime Minister. Did he notice a report recently that the Prime Minister prevented a couple of South African yachtsmen from appearing in a sporting event in Australia? Is it not a fact that this country earns money by trading with South Africa? Is it not time that we terminated this hypocrisy of this and other governments, whereby on the one hand we trade with South Africa and on the other hand we disallow sporting events? I ask the Minister: Is it not time that governments of this country grew up and realised that sporting events are not events of great international importance with which they should be concerned? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-by leave-I should like to speak in relation to the report on the metric system. When this report was brought in originally it was accepted in the usual way. It has been the practice over many years for lots of reports to be brought in which no one expected would be acted upon. I do not think this report was expected to be acted upon. 

 - Senator Sim might have his own views on this matter. Although metric conversion was started by a Liberal Government, it is one of the looniest actions that has ever been taken in this country. This system has been brought in at very great cost to the country. It has virtually amounted to the introduction of a foreign language which hardly anybody can understand. Wherever one may go at present, after all these years, the amount of knowledge that people have regarding the metric system is very small. The fact is, irrespective of what honourable senators might say, that even the people who supported the introduction of the metric system do not understand much about it. When  Mr 'Goof  Whitlam was Prime Minister of this country he had a dispute with one of his Ministers,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, about the pronunciation of 'kilometer'. He pronounced it ,1.;11 nueter', while  Mr Cameron  preferred 'killometer'. The Professor of Greek at Sydney University who taught  Mr Whitlam  said the word should be pronounced 'KILL-o-meter'. These people cannot even agree among themselves on what they are talking about. How do we know what people are talking about when they are talking in metric terms? 
There is no doubt there could be reason for the application of the metric system to goods we export in order to get a uniformity of comparison of measurement when dealing with other countries. But can anybody tell me what need there was to change acres into hectares? Do we export hectares and what relation does the measurement have to people outside this country? But it does concern the people inside this country. How many people understand hectares? Yet people understand acres. 
Then there is the change of measurement from miles to KILL-o-meters or kil-OM-eters- whatever you like to call it. I thought it was KILL-o-meters. Look at the expense that was caused in Australia in altering all the road signs throughout this country. That expenditure must have been very considerable indeed. The amount of money that has to be spent to bring in this system amazes me. What advantage can we get in Australia from people travelling around looking at signposts they do not understand after we have incurred all this expense? 
The change also affects the packaging of goods. I remember that when the dairying industry had to go over to the metric system a large number of bottles was apparently wasted because a new size was introduced. That involved more cost to this country. This is the sort of thing that has been going on. It goes to show that in accepting reports parliamentarians really should be more vigilant. We as the Government at the time and as honourable senators on the Government side should have been more vigilant at that time. The expenditure that has taken place over the period of years by now must be a pretty considerable sum. It amazes me that this Government is sufficiently metric mad that, while it is cutting down on other things of great imporance I understand that the money provided for the madness of metrication has not been reduced in any shape or form. 
Can anybody tell me there is an advantage in travelling around Australia in kilometres rather than miles or in buying land in hectares rather than acres? Nobody in this chamber can honestly tell me that the money that we spent on this looney idea of metric madness has achieved as much for the internal workings of Australia as we would have gained if that money had been devoted, say, to the portfolio of the Minister for Science and used for a scientific investigation, and more particularly an investigation into the health and welfare aspects of medical science. I believe such an expenditure would have had much greater benefit for Australia. Week after week we find people sending in petitions in connection with this metric business. Despite the views of a few parliamentarians who might exhibit a superficial knowledge better than that of the ordinary citizen, wherever I go I find that few people really understrand metrics. As I said, we are now talking a foreign language in this country and we do not understand it. As far as I am concerned it is a stupid waste of money in the main. I think that if the Government were fair dinkum about cutting back expenditure this would be one area in which it should cut back. 
I present the 57th report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a general report upon the deliberations of the Committee during 1976. In doing so, I should like to comment on the change in personnel of the Committee during that period. As a personal tribute I very much regret that the year saw the loss of the work of members of the Committee such as  Senator Devitt,  who for a number of years acted as  Deputy Chairman  and for several years as  Chairman  of this Committee, and  Senator Brown.  Both members performed first class work for this Committee and it was with regret that I saw them move from the work of this important Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Why did the Prime Minister agree to the establishment of a select committee of the House of Representatives to investigate the tourist industry when for some three or four months a joint Government committee has been investigating this industry very thoroughly? What does the Prime Minister hope to get from this select committee additional to what would have been achieved by the Government committee? Are members of the select committee entitled to expenses, remembering that the members of the existing Government committee do not receive expenses? Can the Minister tell me whether the Prime Minister is really interested in the tourist industry, remembering the policy that he came out with at election time, then forgot about, then the Government committee was appointed and now he is apparently ursurping its position with the appointment of a select committee? Can the Minister tell me why the Prime Minister considers that the only people who know how to investigate the tourist industry are members of the House of Representatives, not senators? 
-by leave-I give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the following parts of the Consumer Affairs (Amendment) Ordinance 1976, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 49 of 1976, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, be disallowed: 
Sub-sections (2) and (3) of the new section 1 SC contained in section II; 
Sub-section (3) of the new section 1SE contained in section 1 1; and 
the new section 16 contained in section 13. 
This notice of motion relates to provisions in the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance which impinge upon the civil rights and liberties of inhabitants of the Territory. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has had correspondence with the responsible Minister on the matter, and it was hoped to finalise it today, which is the last day for giving notice in relation to the Ordinance. This has not proved possible, and I have given notice to preserve the Committee 's rights until its inquiries have concluded. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that Ansett Airlines of Australia has eliminated any designated area for non-smokers in its first class passenger compartments? Is he aware that the trend today is to prohibit smoking in public buses and even on some railways? In view of this trend, and in view of the fact that Qantas, our own international airline, reserves the whole of one side of the aircraft for non-smokers, will the Minister take up with Ansett Airlines its reason for taking this retrograde step? Is it an indication that Ansett has no regard for the comfort of nonsmokers? Will the Minister take up the matter and ask Ansett to restore this comfort to people who are non-smokers in order to protect them against pollution and the annoyance of smokers? 
I should like to say just a few words in this debate. The National Country Party's argument based on the size of electorates does not carry any weight with me. What does cany weight with me is that the people in more sparsely populated areas engaged in certain industries should have a strong representative voice in this Parliament. The industries which exist in those areas are very important in the production of food and income for the nation and especially in the earning of overseas currency, which is a vital matter. The essential feature, to me, is that country areas should have a stronger representation to counterbalance the fact that they have not the population of the city areas. 
That is the famous  Senator Missen  talking about democracy now. The people of those industries are entitled to a reasonably strong voice in this Australian Parliament. That is something which was thought about when these Houses were created. We should remember that an Australian parliament could not be formed until it was agreed to have a Senate based on equal representation for the less populated States and the more heavily populated States. This is exactly the same basis. The less populated States of Queensland, Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia were given equal representation in this chamber to counterbalance the heavy industrial populations of New South Wales and Victoria which have so many members in the House of Representatives. This chamber was established to try to give various industries and people throughout Australia a reasonably equal voice. People in sparsely populated areas who are developing important industries should get sufficient representation to enable their voices to be heard with some strength in the Australian Parliament. 

 -Mr President, in my 27 years in this Parliament I would say that this is the worst piece of political trickery and hypocrisy that I have encountered. And it is coming from my own Government. One could understand a party with a political philosophy like that of the Australian Labor Party putting forward such a proposal as this to be determined at a referendum. But, when the Parties on this side of the House clutch this referendum proposal to their breasts and say This is what we believe in', after the case we presented against a similar referendum a couple of years ago, it really astounds me. It is really laughable to hear some of the honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber trying to justify the reason for the change in their opinion. As a matter of fact, I have come to the conclusion that there must be sufficient acrobats on the Government side of the chamber today to make a really first class circus. What argument did the Parties on this side of the Senate put forward in the No case a couple of years ago? We said: 
This referendum will make the Senate the rubber stamp of a socialist, centralist Labor Government. 
We went on then to talk about there being a difference between the 2 Houses of the Parliament, and said: 
The dishonesty of this referendum question is that it says this is the only way to get Senate and House of Representatives elections held together. That is simply untrue. 
The Constitution; the law and parliamentary practice allows each Prime Minister to have a House of Representatives election on the same day as any Senate election. He can have the House of Representatives and Senate elections on the same day simply by his own decision. 
-That was stated in the Government Parties' No case 2 years ago.  Senator Kathy  Martin today pointed out how the elections came to be out of kilter. That occurred because a government of an earlier day- a government of the same political persuasion as the present Government- was idotic enough to increase the sales tax on cars to 40 per cent. What would happen to the motor vehicle industry today if the sales tax were 40 per cent? I opposed that proposition. The only other member of the Government Parties who opposed it was  Senator Reg  Wright- a man who can be trusted to stand up for his principles. As I walked around the Parliament in those days, members of Parliament from this side would not speak to me, because I had taken a stand. Today the sales tax on cars is 27Vi per cent. A little while ago the Labor government reduced it to 17 1/2 per cent. I gave the warning in 196 1 that if the then Government kept the high rate of sales tax on for very long the Prime Minister of the day would find himself the Leader of the Opposition. He struggled back to office with about one seat to spare. Then, as  Senator Kathy  Martin said, when he thought that the sun was shining a little more brightly he rushed us out to another election. My own assessment of the situation at the time, and I stated it, was that if he had waited until later on- until nearer the normal time- he would have received a bigger majority. 
Having heard  Senator Kathy  Martin make her speech, I commend her on the very strong stand that she has taken on this issue, which is an issue on which she believes the Government to be wrong. I feel that the people of Queensland will commend her very strongly. She is not one of those people who have a wishbone where their backbone ought to be. She has shown herself to be a person of character. I believe that as a result of her actions on this issue the people of Queensland will ensure that she is in the Senate for a long time. We want in this chamber people who are prepared to stand up for, to vote for and to say what they really believe. We now find this issue being brought forward by a LiberalNational Country Party Government. Let us look at what was said a couple of years ago about elections for the Senate and the House of 
Represenatives. The present Government Parties went on to say in the No case that was circulated to all the electors in Australia: 
But the Senate is not an arm of the House of Representatives. Both are established under the Constitution as equal, independent Houses of Parliament with differing roles. The Senate is the only institution in Australia able to be a barrier to the arbitrary misuse of power by a Prime Minister or his Cabinet. 
Then this very important feature came in: 
The present system is that senators are elected for a 6-year term. It is a 'staggered' election system with half of the Senate coming up for election every 3 years. The statutory 6-year term is one of the strengths from which a senator derives his independence. 
Without Senate independence the casualty would be democracy. 
It should be remembered that in this chamber we are dealing with human beings. There is no question about it: If a person knows that he has a definite term of office of 6 years there is more likelihood of his taking an independent stand because he knows that he has a reasonable length of time to serve and that if he makes a stand he has time for it to be shown that he was right. Eventually his Party will accept him. I know that that has been the case with me. There has been talk about getting rid of me, but every time I have gone back for re-selection the people back home, who are really at the grass roots level and who are the real basis of the Liberal Party, stand by me because they want people who are not worms; they want people who will stand up as parliamentarians in this country. 
We are now witnessing a quite unusual display from some members of the Government Parties. I have been amazed by the speeches that have come from some members of the Government Parties- in particular the members of the National Country Party of Australia. Let us go through this matter again.  Senator Missen  said last night that the reason why the present Government Parties put forward a No case previously was that there were other questions for consideration and that if the Government Parties did not put forward that No case on that one the people might vote Yes for the others. One has to be honest with the people. I have found out during my period in public life that, if one has honesty and sincerity, that carries conviction with the people. Do honourable senators think that nonsense like that will carry conviction? I have heard some similar statements made in this chamber. They are absolutely nonsensical and not the truth. Putting it bluntly,  Senator Missen  's statement is not the truth. We opposed that referendum proposal because we opposed it. I will go into more detail on that. Let us examine what  Senator Withers,  the present Leader of the Government in the Senate, had to say on this matter previously. He said: 
We oppose this legislation because it is another attempt by the Prime Minister to destroy the Senate. If the referendum which the legislation proposes were passed by some freak mischance, it would effectively destroy the capacity of the Senate to act as it now does. It would be the first step towards placing all power in the hands of the House of Representatives and therefore in the hands of the Prime Minister for the rime being. It would destroy the Parliament as we have known the Parliament since 1900. . . . This Bill is an attempt to destroy the only effective watchdog, the only effective check, on the abuse of power in this country. 
-Senator Withers, the present Leader of the Government in the Senate. Let us examine what  Senator Carrick  has said about this matter. He has given me a lead that I must follow. I know that if I did not do so he would not think much of me. He said on that occasion: 
It is a Bill which seeks to resubmit to the people of Australia a proposition which they rejected resoundingly 12 months ago. That is quite clear. It is a Bill which seeks to make it compulsory forever afterwards that the House of Representatives and the Senate elections be held on the one day. 
As a Queenslander, I was from one of the States that he then mentioned. This is what he said: 
Any senator coming from one of the small States - that is one of the States with a smaller population- who ties himself basically to this device is indeed in dereliction of his duty to the States. . . . Any senator who gets up and seeks to destroy the quality of the Senate in this way ought to be defeated in his own State. 
I could not possibly go against that proposition put forward by  Senator Carrick,  the present Minister for Education. Therefore I must oppose this legislation. But it is not just the members of the Senate who have previously opposed these propositions.  Mr Killen,  another Minister in the present Government, said: 
My hope and expectation is that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  must stand in contemplation of disappointment for I am sure that when his proposal is understood by the people it will be rejected. 
I turn now to the remarks made previously by  Mr Sinclair,  who I notice was reported in the Press the other day as having said that he is in favour of the 4 referendum proposals. That is amazing, considering what he said then. He said: 
Neither in the manner of its presentation nor in the substance of its argument has the Government demonstrated any valid case for the support of this piece of legislation, for its passage through the Parliament, nor, I would submit, its ultimate support by the people of Australia when it is considered by them, as a question,, amongst others, by way of referenda. 
He went on to say: 
I am quite concerned that there should be no breakdown of the powers and functions of the Senate. I am concerned that there should be no derogation of the power that a senator exercises as a result of his election for a term of 6 years, and that is where it comes in in this Bill. If the honourable member for Diamond Valley had cared I would have been only too prepared to have allowed him to have incorporated in  Hansard not  only those significant passages from the 1958 report of the Constitutional Review Committee but also the reservations that were expressed by  Senator Wright. 

 Senator Wright had expressed reservations.  Mr Sinclair  went on to say: 
Those reservations are very material to the passage of this Bill. They set out in detail an analysis made by that learned gentleman of the way in which a senator's rights and responsibilities are exercised, in part, through his election for a term of 6 years. A 6-year term gives a senator a measure of independence which a relationship between his term of office and a House of Representatives election would deny him. 
Has there been any change in that situation? Of course not.  Mr Sinclair  went on to say: 
Honourable members opposite support a unicameral system ; 
He was referring to Labor Party members- a system which denies the maintenance of the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition referred to that passage of the Prime Minister's second reading speech in introducing the Bill in which he stated: 
Each of these Bills will have the effect of putting into operation proposals contained in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. 
Therein lies the rub. There is the essence of the destruction of the Senate. This is the beginning of the removal of the Senate as a House of this Parliament. It is part of the beginning of the erosion of the power of those who are members of the Senate. It is a piece of legislation which was introduced, according to the Prime Minister- it was he, not I, who used the words- for the purpose of 'putting into operation proposals contained in the platform of the Australian Labor Party'. 
Later on he said: 
What utter nonsense it is for honourable members opposite to talk of introducing a charter of rights or responsibilities when they, by the introduction of Bills of this character, are seeking to destroy those rights and the liberties of individuals. I reject this Bill in toto. I believe that the Australian people are unlikely to be hoodwinked by the sorts of arguments that have been presented to this House. I believe that this Bill lacks substance and therefore should be rejected in its entirety. 
Those were the words of  Mr Sinclair, Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. That just goes to show you. He said that this proposal is Labor Party policy. Now he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Ministers of this Government and the people who follow them are telling us to support this proposal. Yet we were told that it was Labor Party policy. Does this indicate that our Prime Minister and Ministers have swung in behind the Labor Party and its policy? I want to say something about that point also. Over the period of time that this Government has been in power it has been cutting down with the idea of economising. What do we find? Out of the blue, without reference to senators, and the Senate is the House materially affected, out are shot these referendum proposals. I understand that in an answer to a question asked in the House of Representatives last week it was said that the referendum would cost between $5m and $7m. This is being done at a time when the Government is cutting down on everything else. Apparently $5m to $7m is nothing when it comes to referendums and when  Mr Fraser  and his Ministers want to try to make a change. 
Yes, but I have never been a yes man. My colleague in front of me has shown always that he has the courage and the spirit to do what he thinks is right. So far as I am concerned, like  Senator Wright,  while I am here I will do what my conscience dictates on a matter and what I think is best for the people of Australia. Goodness gracious me, think of what our people said about the Labor Party people trying to wipe out the Senate. This Senate today stands very high in the minds of the people. As far as I am concerned, I do not worry about being here for an extra day so that people can come out and lecture. I remember that when the 2 Houses came out together the Senate was never mentioned. But today the Senate is a House of character and standing for the people of Australia. Indications are that the people of Australia stand behind what they do. Nobody can challenge me when I say that because of the decision which the Senate gave the people of Australia the chance to exercise last year. The people showed very conclusively, extremely so, that they supported what the Senate did by returning the present Government. Therefore it is essential for this Government to cut out this silly nonsense of playing semi-socialist by running with Labor policy. I wondered when I saw a write-up in the Melbourne  Age  on Saturday.  Senator Wright  and I had made some statements and the Prime Minister replied. In the course of that reply he said that the reason for presenting these Bills was that there had been a change of heart by the Liberal Party or the Government parties. 
I did not know that this was a romantic affair, a change of heart. I thought it might have represented a change of thinking. This is a matter involving deep political conscience and deep thinking. I want to know whether  Mr Malcolm 
Fraser and  Mr 'Goof  Whitlam got together to have a heart affair. Are their hearts now becoming entwined? Is it likely that shortly we will see them dancing to a romantic tune such as a beautiful old waltz? A waltz was made for love. Surely they must be dancing together when we see a government led by this Prime Minister joining in and presenting this Labor policy. 
So far as I am concerned I stand strongly against it. The people of Australia turned this proposal down before in no uncertain terms. My voice and any effort that I can make will certainly ensure that wherever possible the people will turn down this legislation. Only a few people might be involved but this is a matter which is worth fighting for. I well remember when the Government of the day, a government I supported, put forth that idiotic idea of breaking the nexus. Ten of us stood firm and fought the Government. The Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party, all parties except the Democratic Labor Party, were amalgamated. The newspapers, the radio stations and the television stations, were all for breaking the nexus but what happened? That proposition almost broke the neck of the Government because the Government got such a dishing. In States like Tasmania the proposal was beaten by more than 3 to 1. It was like that pretty well all over Australia except for New South Wales. As far as I am concerned I hope that when this referendum comes about the acrobats in the Government will come such a thump on their seats that they will wake up and say what stupid coots they were. I think they will say that they should have kept to true Liberal policy and should have been truer and more faithful to the ideals of having a Senate in this country. I strongly oppose this referendum and I condemn the Government for what it is doing. I am amazed that I have not heard something from our Ministers in the Senate to indicate that they are standing up for the Senate. 
-I think that I should reply briefly to  Senator McLaren  because of the very, very foolish statement he made. In speaking of the Senate in very disparaging terms he said that hardly anybody in Australia would know of its existence. This is a reflection upon the people of Australia. After all, the people have to go to the polls to vote for the Senate. With this in mind, how could any sane sensible person say that the people of Australia do not know that the Senate exists? That is absolute nonsense. The wild and woolly statements which have been made in support of the Government 's case indicate how little argument those supporting that case for these referenda really have. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Jessop's amendment)  be left out. 
I am sorry that, once again, we are dealing with legislation- in this case the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill- brought in by this Government. In my opinion, it is even more dishonest than the previous legislation, the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. I say that quite strongly. Also, it amazes me that this Government, which has squealed so often when in Opposition about the shortage of dme for debate, nas squeezed down to practically nothing the debating time on these tremendously important Bills. This Bill deals with something which it has been pointed out by committees and others is very difficult to put into proper legal terms, yet the Government goes ahead with it. There are various difficulties about filling vacancies, including vacancies in seats which had been occupied by Independents. But the very important change is in the fact that for the first time the Government recognises the question of party in its legislation. This, I think, is a complete change. The most serious aspect of all is that this legislation is giving political parties the right to over-ride State authorities. The States are a very important part of the composition of this Constitution of Australia. It has been said before that it was only because the States agreed to have a Senate chamber that we have an Australian Parliament. Yet we are now giving power to political parties to over-ride the authority of the States. Who ever would have thought that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would do this. Having seen the amalgamations and the voting on the other side of the chamber today, I think it probably will be interpreted that a new party, the Labor-Liberal-National Country Party has arisen in Australia. The way that these parties have coalesced and the friendliness which has been shown has made me realise how people can corns together unexpectedly. There are only two or three minutes left for this debate so there is nothing much that one can say because of the way this Government is steamrollering through important legislation. I oppose the legislation and I hope that the people of Australia will be alerted sufficiently not to fall for the dishonesty and the hypocrisy of this Government on these questions. 
-This is a very important question for the Senate. I think that the standing of this chamber in the minds of its members and the people generally depends on it. I really wonder when it is suggested that people should come into the Parliament and read their speeches. I remember campaigning in the days before the television took over. People campaigned in the streets, in the outback, in halls and everywhere else in order to achieve entry to the Parliament. I do not know what the present parliamentarians who are arguing for the reading of speeches in Parliament would have done in those days. Can honourable senators imagine a candidate reading his speech to a meeting of electors when he was trying to enter Parliament? What chance would he have of entering Parliament if he carried on a campaign like that. 
Yes. They would have been out and people would have said: 'Fancy sending a person like that to Parliament'. Would prospective parliamentarians read their speeches at the plebiscite in front of the electors? 
Of course they would not.  Senator Bonner  interjected and said 'Yes'. I can imagine where he would have got if he had read his speech when he stood for Parliament. 
If that is the case, it is amazing. If the average person standing before a preselection committee read his speech he would finish up on the other side of the lectern. We hear this silly talk about people being able to speak publicly only if they have a high education, if they are academics, and so on.  Senator Cavanagh  has just finished speaking. I want to say this and I have said it before: He has been a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, of which I am the  chairman,  for many years. I have found him to be a very capable person. Generally speaking the arguments that he puts forward are presented very capably. I do not think  Senator Cavanagh  would ever say that he was a man of high education; yet because of his work, development, initiative and resource he is able to make an interesting and very capable speech. As  Senator Mulvihill  said, this is because he is fired with a vision and a desire to present his case. He does remarkably well under all circumstances. To suggest that a high education is necessary to make a speech is silly. I left school before I was 13 years of age. 
Certain people can be cheeky when they probably owe you an obligation. Let me say this: It is not necessary for a person to have a high education to make a speech. All that is needed is for the person to have sincerity, honesty and a capacity to shed nervousness so that that person can think while on his feet. There is no necessity for a high education. That is the simple way in which people can overcome these things. 
It has been pointed out that Ministers read their second reading speeches when they present Bills to this chamber. I have never regarded those second reading speeches, as they are termed, as being real speeches. To me they are statements of fact relating to the legislation and are presented to the chamber for the purpose of debate. Therefore the presentation that the Minister makes in each of those cases is not the advancing of an argument as is the case when back bench senators make their speeches. It is a statement of fact made so that we as senators know what the Government of the day is presenting to us and so that we may make our contributions to the debate on the legislation. 
As one who has heard the reading of speeches in the Parliament, I think that  Senator Baume  has touched upon a very important aspect of reading speeches. How many people really enjoy a speech that is read? As  Senator Mulvihill  said, such speeches are more or less colourless and have no life. What happens when a person reads a speech? Anybody who knows anything about speaking knows that that person has his head turned down towards what he is reading. As a consequence, there is not the same flow to the listeners and furthermore the reader of the speech does not face his audience, which is an important factor in the delivery of any address. I think it is disgusting to see people reading speeches at opening ceremonies. I refer to Prime Ministers, Ministers and other public men who go along to an opening ceremony and read a speech in front of the gathering. I cannot think of a more monotonous presentation at an opening ceremony. Surely to goodness, if a person is sufficiently interested in the subject of the opening ceremony he should make himself at least sufficiently conversant with it to enable him to make a reasonable speech without having to read his speech. I have always felt that the reading of a speech detracts from the delivery and as a consequence it is not a very interesting speech at all. 
Someone has said: 'Let us get into line with the House of Representatives'. Does that mean that we want to descend the ladder? It is well recognised that in the House of Representatives today many speeches are read. The standard of that House, in my view, has gone down considerably in recent years. I believe that there is nothing like the speeches that are delivered by people who mean what they say, who face their audience and without notes put their speeches forward with a very good delivery. That is the type of presentation that we as senators should be able to give. I feel that if we maintain the provision that speeches should not be read this chamber not only will maintain its present standard but also will always have a standard above that of another place. Relying on written speeches indicates very often a lack of initiative and resourcefulness on the part of the people concerned. 
I think  Senator Young  mentioned that research officers seek out information and that they can prepare speeches which can be delivered by honourable senators. I have always believed that when a person states a case in this chamber it should be his view. The members of this chamber are sent here by the people of their State to present views on behalf of their party or as individuals in any particular case. To come in here and read a presentation of the thoughts of somebody else I think is an indication of a desire to reduce the standard of this chamber very considerably. Make no bones about it: Because research officers are being employed people are having speeches prepared by them. I think that this is a very downward trend. As senators and members of the Australian Parliament we should be out to lift this Parliament to the highest possible standard. I notice that  Senator Bonner  is still mumbling away to himself. He is carrying on a conversation. 
I believe that it is our duty to come here and to present our thoughts so that we can put forward the best ideas possible in order to lift our Parliament to the highest possible standard. Let us keep the standard of this chamber as it is today. Do not let us be degraded to the lower position to which another House has descended over several years, with parliamentarians reading their speeches because they cannot think on their feet and present what they themselves really feel. 
-In speaking to the Address-in-Reply I should like to say what a gracious occasion it was to have  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II presiding over this chamber and making a speech in which she delivered to us and the people of Australia what really amounted to an outline of what the Government proposes to do in certain respects, particularly in relation to the economy. I think we were very fortunate in having her here. Of course, her visit has stimulated argument about democracy, republicanism and so on. I believe that throughout the years we have been very fortunate in having  Her  Majesty the Queen as the person we look up to as the Queen of Australia, as she is now titled. The reason for the visit was to enable us to congratulate  Her  Majesty on her 25 th anniversary and to commemorate that occasion. During the 25 years of her reign she has carried out the duties of her position as our Queen in a most magnificent way. In the whole of that period of 25 years she has not been the object of any controversy, suspicion, gossip or anything of that nature. She is a perfect example of a person holding such a position for 25 years and attracting no criticism. In the circumstances I think that we are very fortunate in having the Queen as our head. 
Today some people are talking about Australia becoming a republic. What does this mean? Other countries are republics and have presidents. Probably the one that is best known to all Australians is the United States. It has a  president.  If Australia were to become a republic and to elect a  president,  what would this mean? Every 3 years or so there would be a presidential election. The person occupying that position would be a person of political character. He would have some political feelings if we elected him in the same way as the  President  of the United States is elected. The contest that takes place there involves great expense to the nation and to the people. It is a contest of great controversy and argument. It is always considered that the person occupying the presidential position has a party attachment. Despite the great cost of electing a  president,  do we find that the presidents of republics emerge after a period of years with a cleaner reputation than that of the Queen of this country? 
The United States is a nation which we have all looked up to. We have seen what has happened in the presidential chair in that country in recent times. We have seen what has happened in other countries. There has been talk of graft and corruption, buying and selling people's wishes and votes and so on. Do we want that sort of thing? I personally feel that the present set-up, with the Queen as our head, is a very economical one for Australia and one with which we should be delighted. Who pays for the allowances for the Queen? Do we pay anything towards them? Of course we do not. Great Britain pays for them. The only expense we have is for the GovernorGeneral and his residence at Yarralumla. I ask honourable senators to imagine what a presidential residence and suite would cost and what would be the cost of a  president  galloping around the world, interviewing people and seeing things and having people come to Australia to see him. Our present set-up is very economical. This nation has a nominal head. I think the Queen fills that position admirably. We have nothing to argue about. 
Some people, such as Donald Home, Patrick White and a few others, are running around the country stating their views. Who are they to indicate that they are such specialists in this matter? I am quite sure that, despite the poll that was taken in some suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, the great majority of the Australian people are still of the opinion that we have the best set-up in the present circumstances. I was delighted to see  Her  Majesty in Australia on this occasion. The visit is giving a gala effect to the whole of the country. For the mere cost of a visit by  Her  Majesty once every so many years, the people of this nation are entitled to some gala occasions. Each and every one of us at some time has a gala occasion. We may attend a function, go to dine somewhere or do something else. We enjoy ourselves tremendously. Apart from the purely parliamentary side of the visit, it has been of great enjoyment and interest to many hundreds of thousands of people in this country. The present situation is economical, satisfactory and one about which we have no honest complaint. 

 Her Majesty's Speech related to Government policy. It referred to the economy of the nation. This subject naturally has been in the forefront of the minds of many people in this country in recent times. It is a problem which the Government inherited. It is the Government's job now to try to solve it. The trouble is that when a country gets into a mess it is difficult to straighten it out. The same applies to a business. If a business is run down it takes a lot of effort to straighten it out and get it back on an even keel. The government of the country is like the operation of a business. The government of the country is the biggest business in the country; so it is difficult to solve its problems. The Government should set its targets clearly and pursue them persistently, if it believes them to be right, until ultimately a solution is arrived at. We then would be in a much better situation than we are at present. 
This applies particularly to the very important matters of inflation and unemployment. Inflation is a very serious matter. It means that the value is going out of people 's money. The cost of goods is rising. Thrifty people who have saved money over a period of years find that the value of their money has been decreasing considerably for some time. This is very serious. The sooner this situation is straightened out, the better it will be for everybody. Inflation causes demands for increased wages. When wages rise in the way they have been rising, it affects the industry and business of the country. The country needs to earn money from exports to provide employment. The increased costs of producing exports are stifling this country. As a consequence, many of our industries cannot compete with overseas industries. We are losing markets and more unemployment is being created. 
There are problems with regard to the unemployment situation. There is talk about people who are on the dole and who should not be receiving it. I believe, as the Labor Party did many years ago when the situation was bad and there was major unemployment in the country, that people who receive the unemployment sustenance, as it was called then, should be asked to work for it. There is a moral in this. I think the Labor Party of that time was to be congratulated for what it did. If people are doing something for the money they are receiving, they feel that they are not just receiving charity; they are working for and earning the money they receive. I think the Government should give serious thought to this matter. It is ridiculous to ask other people in the nation who are working and paying taxes to provide dole payments to do so for no return. I well remember when I served in local government in those days that these people were made available to us. Local government co-operated with the federal government. As a consequence these people were gainfully employed. The outcome was that those living in the communities where this scheme operated received something for their money. Their cities and towns were better off as possibly were country areas as a result. 
In the United States of America a highway, I think it was called the Roosevelt Highway, was constructed by such workers in a similar situation. There is no reason why people in Australia who are unemployed could not be put on construction work of that nature. Goodness me, the northern regions of Queensland have recently had very heavy rainfall which damaged our roads considerably. A grand opportunity is presented for repair work of that nature to be done. I think that it would be well worth while for the Government to go into this matter properly and to see that these dole payments are not handed out as free gifts. In the past they were paid to recipients for the work that they were doing. If we took that action, this country would be all the richer and better for it and the people receiving those payments would be better citizens. 
Therefore, I suggest that the Government should think constructively about these proposals even if implementing them will cost the Government additional expenditure. It is better to spend a little more and have some tangible result for the benefit of those who are providing the money- that is, the workers and taxpayersthan to see government funds dissipated by providing these gifts for which no return is received. In my community of Mackay a voluntary organisation has been established. The younger people who are unemployed are gathering together in this voluntary organisation and cleaning litter from various areas. They are doing an excellent job. This example illustrates what can be done with some organisation and determination. I believe that the major work in this respect must be carried out by the Government. It is necessary for the Government to show some courage and strength by carrying out such a program. A former Labor Government did it. There is no earthly reason why the present Government should not take the same action today. Those are the remarks that I wish to address to the Senate on the subject of the economy. 
Very shortly, the Government will plunge us into a series of referendums. I cannot understand how the Government can talk about a shortage of funds and yet be prepared to spend $5m to $7m, according to an answer given in the House of Representatives recently, on putting those referendum questions to the people when some of those questions have already been submitted to and turned down by the people. One amazing aspect is that the present Government parties which are now presenting these referendums te the people are the very parties which, when they were in Opposition, so strongly opposed 2 of the referendum questions. We find the Government now coming out and saying that those referendum questions should be agreed to. I am amazed when I read the no case submitted by the then Opposition, now the present Government, to the people in 1974. To do so makes one wonder especially when one reads what the Government is saying now about those who are not supporting the referendum questions; in other words, those of us who voted against these proposals. It is said that we are just about the worst in the world; we are not telling the truth; we are telling lies; we are engaging in subterfuge; and so it goes on. 
When we read the no case prepared in 1974 and compare it with what the Government is doing today, as I said in a speech earlier this year, it would appear that the present Government contains the best bunch of acrobats in the world. They would make a magnificent circus. There are so many acrobats in the parties. Not only are they a bunch of acrobats but they are also, I think, magicians and ventriloquists. The change in argument between what was put forward in the no case in 1974 and what is now proposed is really amazing and the work of a group of magicians. We cannot see any reason for the change from the stand taken in 1 974, but the change in argument is really amazing. In other words, the Government parties are speaking in a different voice, just like a ventriloquist. I am quite sure that  Senator Withers,  our Leader here,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and  Mr Anthony  are really a trio of acrobats, magicians and ventriloquists. In this respect, I refer to a statement which was made recently by  Senator Withers.  He said: 
The May referendum is all about Australians giving Australians a fair go. 
A vote for 'Yes' will be a vote for fairness and decency in politics. 
When you vote 'Yes' on 21 May you will be ensuring: Elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives take place on the same day- a huge saving for the public in both money and time. 
What did  Senator Withers  say in 1974? I understand from what he has said recently that he was one of the parliamentarians who helped to prepare the no case at that time. What was said then in reply to the argument by the Labor Government that a yes vote would bring about simultaneous elections for both Houses as though that action was the only way to achieve that end? The no case stated: 
The dishonesty of this referendum question is that it says this is the only way to get Senate and House of Representatives elections held together. That is simply untrue. 
That is what the Opposition parties at that time said. The argument continued: 
The Constitution, the law, and parliamentary practice allow each Prime Minister to have a House of Representatives election on the same day as any Senate election. He can have the House of Representatives and Senate elections on the same day simply by his own decision. 
The fact that this Prime Minister does not do so, exposes the fraud of this referendum. 
Is it suggested that a fraud is being exposed on the part of the present Prime Minister in respect of this referendum? Does the argument adopted in 1974 apply today? I suggest that the no case makes rather interesting reading. In his recent statement  Senator Withers  said: 
In the last few weeks there have been a lot of myths, folklore, and downright lies being told about what these referendums will mean. 
What we are telling the people is what  Senator Withers  and others told the people in 1974. He continues: 
But what those who oppose the referendums- especially that for simultaneous elections- want is that which British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin once described as 'power without responsibility- the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages'. 
That is rather unusual language to use in connection with the referendum.  Senator Withers  goes on: 
As one of my colleagues in the Senate put it, some of the people who are opposed to simultaneous elections seem to be seeking a term for life. 
Again, this magical series of statements that our Leader here and the Government are apparently responsible for makes very strange reading. I instance the cases of  Senator Wright  and myself; the same argument can probably be made in respect of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack although I am not certain of his term of office. If the referendum question on simultaneous elections is carried, the terms of  Senator Wright  and I, at least, will be extended by 6 months. From a parliamentary service point of view we stand to gain from a Yes vote. How can our opponents make out that we are seeking a term for life by knocking back this referendum? If the people vote yes we will gain.  Senator Wright,  other honourable senators and I prefer to see what is best for the people rather than what is the best for ourselves individually. Talking about spurious arguments, I suggest that if we could fathom and understand clearly why the Government has adopted this approach to this matter, probably the tactics of those supporting the Yes case would not appear as open as the tactics from those on the No case side.  Senator Withers'  statement continues: 
None of these referendum proposals will threaten the Senate, the States or the law. A 'Yes' vote will protect and preserve each. 
I invite the Senate to remember that last sentence: 
A 'Yes' vote will protect and preserve each. 
Some people claim the referendum will threaten the independence of the Senate'. The only 'independence' that might be threatened is the independence of some senators from their electors. 
One reads the hint that we are not fair dinkum. I turn to what was said in the no case in 1 974 by the same people now advocating a yes vote. The no case reads: 
But the Senate is not an arm of the House of Representatives. Both are established under the Constitution as equal, independent Houses of Parliament with differing roles. The Senate is the only institution in Australia able to be a barrier to the arbitrary misuse of power by a Prime Minister or his Cabinet. 
The argument continues: 
The Government refuses to tell you the real effect of its proposed law- to juggle with the terms of office of the senators in order to make the Senate a rubber-stamp of the House of Representatives. Such a dangerous law would vitally affect the parliamentary system; it would cut out the Constitutional independence of the Senate and open the way for progressive reduction of its powers. 
Who said that? It was said by the parties which were then in Opposition but which now make up the Government. It was said in 1974 when the Labor Party put up such a referendum proposal. It is rather an amazing change, is it not? We are being accused of trying to cloud the issue by saying the very things which the then Opposition said when it opposed these referendums. It really is an amazing state of affairs when the political parties which now form the Government will spend between $5m and $7m and will come out and tell people the reverse of what they told the people in 1974. Speaking about whether the proposed constitutional change would affect the Senate, in the statement the Leader of the Government in the Senate said: 
The fact is that the prestige and strength of the Senate comes from the character of the people elected to it - 
I repeat, 'from the character of the people elected to it'- and from the Senate's committee system. Neither of those things will be affected by . . . ensuring Senators are responsible to the voters. 
What did the parties opposing these changes say in 1 974? They said that the proposed change was a 'threat to democracy'. They said: 
Remember- it is official Labor Party policy to abolish the Senate. 
They indicated the sort of steps that can be taken. They went on to say: 
The present system is that Senators are elected for a sixyear term. It is a 'staggered' election system with half of the Senate coming up for election every three years. The statutory six-year term is one of the strengths from which a  Senator derives  his independence. Without Senate independence the casualty would be democracy. 
They concluded on this note: 
The traditional independent powers and voice of the Senate would be lost. The 'checks and balances ' provided by the Senate would be destroyed. 
Probably people will wonder whether if they are hearing correctly when they hear these 2 cases put up by the same people when standing in different positions- one when in opposition and one when in government. We, as parliamentarians, should be deeply concerned about changes of voice and views such as this. I believe that in the 1974 case quite legitimate and good constitutional arguments were presented for the No case. Today the very people who presented that case to the people of Australia have done a complete turn about. This worries me as a person who has served a long time in this Parliament. Like  Senator Wright  I am now in my 28th year in this place. I always have believed that this Parliament is the focal point of this democracy and therefore the higher the standard of this Parliament the better is the democratic standard of the people. The people should be served by really highly constituted and well placed parliaments. 
I am concerned when people develop an attitude that parliamentarians cannot be believed; that they promise you this and do that; that they change their minds when they move from being in opposition to being in government. We have a very serious duty to the people When we speak to them and present something to them we have a serious duty to speak honestly and to produce the facts. To suggest now that the case put in 1974 by the present Government parties when in opposition was not true and that the case they are now putting in favour of the referendum is true, now that they are in government, undermines the confidence of people in the voice of the Government. I think the Government is doing a very serious injustice to itself, to the Constitution and to our democracy by trotting out such somersaulting statements on these questions. The present Government parties also opposed the question involving the giving of votes to people in the Territories. Admittedly another aspect was involved but they did oppose it. If they opposed that in 1974 why has there been such a complete turn around? It is amazing. I would never have believed that any government could have done such a turn about. 
Having talked about the lack of honesty in the minds of people when governments do this sort of thing, another thing that worries me is the pressure used on people to change their minds on this issue. I know that when individual senators were opposing these questions great pressure was brought to bear on some of them to change their minds and some did change their minds. Do honourable senators think that this is the right type of thing to happen in a democracy? Do they think that presure should be used? I do not think so. I think people should have the right to hold individual opinions on matters such as this and therefore it is very serious. 
Pressure has been brought to bear not only within this Parliament; the matter has gone further than that. Take the Premier of Queensland. Everybody knows what he thought of these issues. Why has he not come out on this question? I have greatly admired that man because of his strength and courage on issues. He made his name because of the strength he showed when dealing with those ratbags who were trying to stop the South African footballers from playing in Australia. I would not go from here to there to see a football match or a cricket match but hundreds of thousands of people want to do so. I have taken the view always that if they want to see them they should have the right to do so. That is exactly what he did. As a consequence he found strength and ever since he has been a very strong man. But pressure has been put on him. The Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  his own Party  president  and so on, have tried to get him to say otherwise and that he is not in favour of these proposals. As great an admirer as I have been, just as that stand that he made about the South African footballers made him a strong man and gave him a reputation with the people as being a man of strength, I believe that if he caves in to the undue pressure exerted on him by the Prime Minister, by  Mr Anthony,  and by  Mr Sparkes,  the head of his own organisation in Queensland, he will destroy himself in the minds of the people as being a really strong man. I believe that would be a tragedy for democratic government. But this is what is going on. Is it the right thing to do? Why cannot people be allowed to express themselves? It concerns me very much that this Government should be a party to this sort of a thing. It does not represent true Liberal Party and National Country Party thinking. 
Some stand has to be made. We have to stand against these things. The change that has taken place is amazing. Even  Senator Missen  spoke on this issue. The rest of us who were opposed to him were just in the outer. I have been looking up  Hansard.  What do we find about what happened in 1975 when the Labor Government again brought these issues before the Parliament? We find that  Senator Missen  was one of those who opposed the proposition. He voted against putting forward these referendum questions. To hear him talk now you would think he always had been in favour of these constitutional alterations. He was opposed to them and his vote is recorded in  Hansard  for anybody to see. 
I heard  Senator Scott  stand up and make a very impassioned plea for people to support him. When I looked at his speech on that former occasion I found it amazing that such a change of thought had come about. In my speech on the referendum issue before, I quoted what  Mr Sinclair,  the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, had said and what our own parliamentarians on the Liberal side had said. Really, as I said before, it makes you think that there is not only a little of the acrobat in the makeup of our leaders in this Party; there is also a little of the magician and the ventriloquist because of the way they dazzle you and change things and the way that they speak with many voices. 
As one who has taken a stand on this issue in the hope that people will vote No I sincerely hope that the people will preserve the independence and character of the Senate and that they will not be carried away by the second voice being used by members of the present Government as distinct from that which they used in 1974. 1 hope that the other proposals will be turned down also. I think that generally speaking we will be just as well off without them as with them. I think that the 'No' case should merit the consideration of the people of this country. I always think that it is better to keep the power in the hands of the people than in the hands of the Prime Ministers. Unfortunately it is a fact that sometimes when men get high positions they get a love of power. I always think that the safest democracy of all is a democracy in which the most power remains in the hands of the people so that when they vote they have the right to say who they will have. Therefore, the more that the people can control the power and have it in their hands, the better it is for this country. 
Having presented that view in regard to the referendums I say that I was delighted to hear the first speech of  Senator Lewis  from Victoria who now fills the vacancy of our late lamented colleague ex-Senator Ivor Greenwood. He was a man of very sterling character and with fighting characteristics. I was very pleased to hear the speech of  Senator Lewis.  I feel he is a man of simple, clear thinking which encourages me to believe that he will be a person who will give very clear, simple thought to matters in this chamber. Not only we but also the people of this country will understand what he is talking about. Because of the quality which I feel the honourable senator has, I sincerely hope that he will be in this chamber for quite a long time. In conclusion, I say that I have very much pleasure in supporting the motion. I sincerely hope that the words which I have spoken will at least be considered by some people and that on 15 May the Government will get its reply from the people, that is a good solid 'No thank you, we want to remain as we are, a safe, sound democracy'. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present 2 petitions similar in wording from 1 30 and 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1 980-8 1 , of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has the Minister seen a report in the daily Press of this day of a near miss of a mid-air collision on 4 February between an Air France 707 jet and a Qantas 707 jet as the Qantas jet was going in to land at Manila Airport? Qantas spokesman,  Mr Bob  Cousins, is reported as saying that the incident was treated very seriously indeed by Qantas and that Qantas filed a protest, mainly because of the inadequacy of radar control at that airport. In contrast, a spokesman for the Philippine Civil Aeronautics Administration,  Mr Jesus  Singson, said the incident happened because of poor air traffic control judgment. As a passenger on that flight and remembering the great concern of the Qantas pilot and his demand to know the name of the officer in the Manila airport control at that time, I ask: In view of the apparent lack of concern by the Philippines Civil Aeronautics Administration, will the Minister investigate whether the official reply to the protest of Qantas was satisfactory? If it was not, will the Minister take up the matter to obtain a satisfactory answer and try to ensure that any defects in Manila airport control will be eliminated to make it safer for planes landing and taking off at Manila? 
I  give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the following parts of the Consumer Affairs (Amendment) Ordinance 1976, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 49 of 1976, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910. be disallowed: 
Sub-section (2) of the new section 15C contained in section 1 1; 
Sub-section (3) of the new section15E contained in section 1 1 ; and 
the new section 1 6 contained in section 1 3. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has he seen a report in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  under the signature of  Mr Peter  Bowers in which it is stated that the Prime Minister has warned or alerted officials of the Liberal Party that if the referendum fails to be carried he will bring on a Senate election before the Budget in order to find a time when it is more favourable to the Government? 
That interjection came from a man who was against the referendum. He is now all for it. Maybe he hopes that it will get him into the Ministry. It was reported that the purpose of the referendum is that the Prime Minister is trying to find the most favourable time for a Senate election. Does this not very clearly indicate that the Prime Minister's stated reasons for holding the referendum are untrue; that the real reason is that the Prime Minister is fishing around to find the most suitable time for an election in the hope that he will find a more appropriate time to return to office; and that the purpose of this referendum is to delay a Senate election as long as possible in the hope that he will have things in better shape than he has at the present time? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question,  Mr President.  In view of the fact that the Leader of the Government in the Senate has gone so far back, I ask him whether he has read and will again read the No case on the 1974 referendum proposals. Is it not a fact that he is one of the people on this side of the House who wrote that No case? 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
-I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the wasting of nearly $ 10m of Australian taxpayers' money on the forthcoming referendum and in view of the fact that  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Whitlam  are now so pally on this matter, does the Leader not think that there would be some saving to this country if  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Fraser  travelled together in one VIP plane during the campaign? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Government in the Senate have been claiming continually that there is a necessity to have simultaneous elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives, I ask: Is it not a fact that simultaneous elections of the Senate and House of Representatives can be held simply at the request of the Prime Minister? Is it also not a fact that in these austere times all that is necessary, with the Prime Minister talking about austerity, is for the Prime Minister to mount his push bike, go out to Yarralumla and see the GovernorGeneral and tell him that he wants an election of the House of Representatives and the Senate at Senate election time? Is it not a fact that that situation can be brought about? 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has he noticed that  Mr Gough  Whitlam, the referendum comrade of  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony,  has stated that the Government should bring the House of Representatives to an election next May with the Senate, making it a simultaneous election? Does this not prove the truth of the No' case that simultaneous elections for both Houses of the Parliament can be held at the decision of the Prime Minister? 
You are a silly young galoot! Do not talk to me like that, you galoot! You are looking for a ministerial portfolio. You are playing up to Malcolm for a portfolio. He has promised one to about twenty of you. Does this not clearly indicate that  Mr Fraser, Mr Anthony  and the Government are guilty of wasting approximately $10m of the Australian people's money by holding a referendum which was not necessary? 
I want to comment on the speech made by  Senator Wright  in this debate. I congratulate him on the very fine speech that he made about the Senate.  Senator Wright  came into the Parliament at the same time as I did. I can truthfully say that over the years he has always displayed a very sound and strong interest in the proper functioning of the Senate. It has been most gratifying to see that he has not been one of those who says yes to everything. When he felt that something was wrong he was not afraid to say no. It is good to know that we have had in this chamber people such as  Senator Wright.  I think that each and everyone of us, instead of tearing down the Senate with criticism, ought to try to build it into a very strong section of the democracy of this country. I believe that we have done that. 
I know that some people talk about another chamber as being the all important chamber but over the almost 28 years that I have been in this Parliament I have never seen a more 'yes man ' instrumentality than that chamber. If any chamber should be abolished I believe it would be better if that one were abolished. The service that  Senator Wright  has given in this chamber over the years has been of a very high order.  His  speeches throughout that period have always been based on the principles in which he really believes. I think that the speech he made the other night indicated very clearly that he felt that before this chamber lies the opportunity to improve and to rectify certain things that may not be ofthe standard that he would hope to see. 
No. It is a compliment to a very fine parliamentarian. 
-No. The speech that he made suggested that the standard of the Parliament should be uplifted. It should be the aim of everyone who comes here to work in order to leave this Parliament a better place than he found it. That should be the ideal of all parliamentarians. In his speech  Senator Wright  referred to matters that he felt this chamber might pursue further. In particular he referred to the reports of the Estimates Committees that come before us and on which this debate is based. He said that if we find that something is not in order in the Estimates we should pursue the matter further. I believe that if the Senate does that it will make an even greater impression upon the Ministers concerned. These things can be done.  Senator Cavanagh  interjected a while ago. He and  Senator 0  'Byrne would remember back to 1949 when the Regulations and Ordinances Committee had a very great fight with the Ministers of the then Liberal-Country Party Government. The Ministers always snorted and carried on whenever the Regulations and Ordinances Committee pulled them up. 
-Of course they did. 
-Yes, but they used to fight the Committee. It was to the credit of the Senate that the Committee always won the battle. Over a period it became established in the mind of the Parliament and in the minds of the Ministers that the Committee had that right and that they had to accept the Committee's decision. Over the years we have had some very fine senators serving on that Committee. I always pay tribute to  Senator Cavanagh  who, although a layman, showed in that Committee, a very good sense of what was right and what was wrong. He played a very important part on that Committee over a number of years. The fact that the Committee has operated in a non-political way has helped it to build the Senate into a better chamber than before. I think that honourable senators individually and collectively can do more to make this institution a really strong section ofthe democracy of this country. I wanted to take the opportunity of paying a tribute to  Senator Wright  for his very fine, thoughtful and illuminating address yesterday. 

 Senator Walsh had something to say about the referendums. I do not think that the referendums did the Parliament or the Government any credit. The referendums were the greatest piece of put-over I have ever seen in my public life. They were a complete fabrication, they were untruthful, and they presented arguments that had no foundation. The present Government, which was the Opposition in 1974, opposed the referendums which the then Labor Government put forward. 
I must say that it was a piece of outstanding hypocrisy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  led off a referendum campaign- I speak my mind about things- and put forth the argument that the people of Australia should support that series of referendum questions. We are not political infants. We know that the real purpose was to get through the number one question, to have simultaneous elections of both Houses. Two complete untruths were told in this matter. The first related to the holding of simultaneous elections and the second was the reason why some people changed their minds. It was said that they did not support the question previously because it was part of a package deal and therefore they had to oppose the lot. 

 - Senator Walsh dragged this up. He had a go on it and he took me on about certain things. So I want to say this: First of all, the matter of simultaneous elections was all moonshine. The comrade-in-arms in the referendum campaign of  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony-  I refer to  Mr Whitlam-  has stated publicly that the Prime Minister could bring the House of Representatives to an election with the Senate in about May of next year. That is exactly what we on the No side said. We said that it could be done, and everybody knew that, but the screen was put up and we were told that the referendum had to be passed so that we could have simultaneous elections. Everybody knows that the prime reason why the Prime Minister and  Mr Anthony  proposed this referendum question was to delay the half Senate election until things are better so that it would not have an adverse reflection on the House of Representatives election 6 months later. I am not a political infant and I know what is in their minds. So this fabrication was put forward and then their comradeinarms,  Mr Whitlam,  blew the gaff when he said that the Prime Minister should hold the House of Representatives election at the same time as the Senate election. He was quite right, but it blew one of the main arguments that they had. The other argument that they put forward to excuse their complete hypocrisy was that they had changed their minds. They said it was a package deal, meaning that there were other items in it that they did not want. Therefore they had to oppose the lot. That is complete and utter nonsense. 
It should be drawn to people's attention that referendum questions do not go in a package. Every question in a referendum is an individual item. The questions are set out individually. Furthermore, the yes and the no cases are presented for each individual question. They are voted for by the people as individual questions, not as a package. That, I think, destroyed the excuse that our Government had for its hypocrisy in making such an acrobatic turn. As I said before, there have been so many acrobats on the Government side over this referendum that they really could make a complete circus. 
I want to mention the untruths that are being told in connection with the allegation that there was a package deal. There is no such thing as a package deal in referendums. It is individual questions upon which people are called to decide. In view of the remarks that have been passed concerning my attitude to this matter, that is what I want to say. I feel that the people of Australia, in giving their answer to the first question of the referendum, gave the right answer. The small numbers of people in each State who voted no are not to be deplored. The very basis of the Constitution and the only reason that we have an Australian Parliament is that it was agreed that each State should have equal representation in this chamber. That permeated through to such things as referendums. The smaller States had to be treated on an equal basis. The result of that is that we have an Australian Parliament. Otherwise we should not have had it. 
I personally, should like to have seen the other 3 proposals defeated. I have no hesitation in saying that. But the major question was the first one. There is no argument but that if that question had not been put the Government would not have held the referendum. 
It is very nice of our yes man Whip to say: 'You would not have another Field'. That happened in Queensland where they chose a Labor man. 
He was a Labor man. I am not saying it was right to choose him. But to our yes man Liberal Whip I say that the man who started this business was the Liberal Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  as he should recall. So let us be quite honest and frank about these things. 
I am just saying that we should not blame Queensland because Queensland was not the State that started this business. As far as I am concerned, I should like to have seen all the referendum questions defeated. But I repeat, if it had not been for the first referendum question put by this Government of ours there would not have been any referendum. The small States have spoken and as States have carried the day. They have stopped this proposal from going forward. All this nonsense of needing this referendum to permit simultaneous elections has been exploded by  Mr Gough  Whitlam, the Government's political colleague. As I pointed out, the explanation given by some supporters of the yes vote for changing their minds on this issue is just a lot of nonsense. They simply were putting over the biggest put-over I have ever seen in my public fife when they said they changed their minds because of the package deal. Let me illustrate this. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Senator Missen,  who have been trotting around the country- and  Senator Missen  was interjecting today- twice, in 1975 and in the year after - 
Yes,  Senator Missen  has been trotting around the country in a VIP jet with the Prime Minister. Did we get any VIP jets? No. In the early part of 1975, the year after the Labor Party's referendum for simultaneous elections was defeated and later, about the middle of the year,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the 
Prime Minister, and  Senator Missen  both voted twice against a Bill that was introduced to hold another referendum, not as part of a package deal that they could cover themselves with, but as a specific question, which was related to simultaneous elections for the Houses of Parliament. 
I have expressed my opinions about racial discrimination. I think the way some honourable senators behaved in regard to that matter indicated we have a lot of galoots here. The way  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Peacock  behaved about Rhodesia and South Africa indicates that it is about time they learned a bit of sense too. What I am saying is that twice in 1975, the year after holding a referendum, when the Labor Government tried to get authority to hold another referendum on the question of simultaneous elections,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and his cobber in the VIP plane,  Senator Missen,  voted against such a proposal. The second vote was taken not long before  Mr Fraser  became Prime Minister. 
I made a speech some time ago in which I pointed out that it should be precious to parliamentarians to make sure that they carry on in their debates and in what they say generally in such a way that the public believes them to be honest people. Parliamentarians should keep in mind how precious this is. If they continue to behave in the way they did concerning this referendum issue, all I can say is that they will have great difficulty in making people believe whatever they say. So far as I am concerned, what I have said should put the matter clearly. The whole thing was a piece of hypocritical nonsense. 
-I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate for the purpose of record. During the recent referendum campaign relating to simultaneous elections it was frequently stated as an argument that this Senate should not have the right to send the other House of Parliament to an election without itself going to the people. 
-That is the voice of an impending Minister; one of Malcolm's promises. I would like to know, for the record, whether this Senate has sent the House of Representatives to an election on its own or whether on each occasion that the Senate has caused an election there has been a double dissolution. In view of the arguments during the campaign, I would like to know whether this chamber has ever sent the House of Representatives to an election on its own. 
I come into this debate because of some of the arguments I have heard. I compliment  Senator Wright  on the contribution that he made earlier in the debate. I agree with him. Probably I would not use exactly the same words, but this patheticBill is really just a skeleton of what the Government apparently intended originally. It is most regrettable that after taking a stand the Government backs down because of certain pressures and fears. As far as I am concerned, if the law of the country says a certain thing the law of the country should be observed by the unions, the employers and everybody else. The arbitration system has operated over a number of years. If the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is recognised as the body which makes decisions about payments to employees, then its decisions should be observed. I take the view that whatever the Commission decides upon is what should be abided by, not only by the employers but also by the employees. 
The unions take it upon themselves to strike when they do not like something. If they do not like the decision of the court they go on strike. What would happen if every time employers felt that what the award prescribed was more than they should be paying they decided to close down the factories? One honourable senator spoke about lockouts having occurred sometimes. How many times have there been lockouts in this country? How many times have there been strikes by employees against awards given by the courts. When trade unionists do not get what they want or cannot get the satisfaction that they think they should have, then there is a strike. If we have an arbitration system I believe it should be observed by both sides so that, whether they like it or not, they have to abide by the judgments handed down. A person who goes before a court of justice has to abide by the decision given. In some cases he can make an appeal against the decision, but ultimately he has to abide by the decision made. The same situation should apply in relation to industrial laws. 
Apparently the present Government is weak when it comes to standing up to what it believes should be done in respect of industrial disputes: If the Government were to consider what the majority of the people of this country want it would probably act in a much stronger way than it does at the present time. Only a week or two ago I saw the results of a poll related to unions. People were asked whether they believed in compulsory unionism and whether they believed in unions going out on strike and so on. I was amazed at the number of unionists who did not agree with the great majority of actions taken by their union leaders. Very often union leaders take their union out on strike without consulting the individual unionists. There is no question that some of the people who lead the unions today are out to destroy the system that we have in this country. 

 Quorum formed. 

It was nice of  Senator Georges  to gather an audience for me. As I was saying at the time when  Senator Georges  called for a quorum so that honourable senators might hear what I have to say - 
As I was saying, it is the responsibility of the unions to accept the decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the same way as it is the responsibility of the employers to accept those decisions. The unions have no more right to go on strike after a decision is made than the employers have to close down their factories and shut out the employees because they did not like the decision. Because of the industrial strife that unions have caused over the years, I think the average citizen in this country has just about reached breaking point. Australia has become a very slap-happy country. I think that strikes affect the general prosperity of the country and the welfare of its citizens. Who do the unions really attack when they go on strike? Are they attacking the employer concerned or are they attacking employers generally? No, the people they attack most when they go on strike are the ordinary citizens of this country. They inconvenience people from all walks of life in getting to their place of employment. The strike that took place recently was a very striking illustration of the great harm that can be caused to the ordinary citizen. People were stranded all over the world. Some of them were short of money. Those people were caught in a very awkward predicament. There were people sleeping at airports, and people were placed in all sorts of predicaments because of that strike. 
All right, they had been waiting 18 months. It was the Public Service Board which was giving a decision. The unionists rebelled against that decision. Then, when they were offered the opportunity to go before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, did they go back to work straight away? Of course they did not. When unions go on strike they are really attacking the ordinary citizen of this country and they are doing the country very great harm. There is no question that they are harming this country in a serious way. It has got to the stage where people from overseas who want to trade with this country cannot rely on getting goods. Let us take, for example, the situation in the coal industry and other industries. If the supply of materials such as coal is going to be held up in reaching countries like Japan, what will happen? Eventually those countries will seek other sources of supply. That sort of situation can do us more and more harm. I know that the people of Australia would take the view that not only the employers but also the unions of this country ought to accept the decisions made by our Arbitration Commission. If that were done and if the legislation of this country were strong enough to enforce those decisions we would have a much happier and much more contented population than we have at the present time. 

 Senator Georges talked about the right to strike in certain situations and he said that such strikes always did the unions good in the long run. I remember the situation that arose many years ago in the sugar industry in my own city of Mackay in Queensland. I used to be pay master for the waterside workers. I know something about union affairs too. I recall that the people who worked on the waterfront were probably the best paid workers in Mackay at the time. The late Jim Healy was one of the fellows I used to pay on the waterfront. I was amazed to find when I entered this place how everybody trembled in fear of him and were timid of him. I remember the arguments that I had with him and how he was put in his place by just a young fellow. 
What happened to those waterside workers who formed a very troublesome section of the industrial world? They had strike after strike, and they caused so much trouble that the men on the Harbour Board decided that they would introduce bulk handling of sugar; and they did. What happened?  Senator Georges  said that industrial strikes bring gains for unionists in the long run. The requirement for waterside workers in Mackay fell from about 450 to about 50 at that time. They lost their jobs and they had to be shipped to Sydney and to other places in order to get work. So that is an indication that very often strikes permanently damage the very people who have been sent on strike. 
It is quite patent and apparent that the people who very often cause these strikes- the union leaders- do not lose their pay when they send the union members on strike. However, the poor individual unionists who are on strike lose their pay. I think it would be very good if legislation could be introduced which made provision that when a union went on strike that union 's leaders did not receive any pay. I think then we would see a lot fewer strikes than we have at present. As far as I am concerned, the general strikes that are called on are an attack upon the livelihood and working conditions of the people of this country. 
Governments should recognise that strong action has to be taken to ensure that all parties associated with industry and involved in arbitration decisions observe such decisions. If they do not, there is no reason why a strong penalty should not be imposed on them. To that end I would like to see much stronger legislation introduced than we have at present. I would hope that this legislation at least might have some effect in meeting the need. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-It is not formal,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; but I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the Notice of Motion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-This Notice of Motion relates to the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs (Amendment) Ordinance 1976, which has been the subject of intense examination by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and lengthy correspondence between the Committee and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  since December 1976. The Ordinance contains amendments designed to strengthen the powers of the Director of Consumer Affairs to obtain information from suppliers of goods and services and to institute or defend proceedings on behalf of consumers. There were four provisions in the Ordinance which the Committee considered unduly trespassed upon individual rights and liberties 
Section 15a of the Ordinance empowered an investigating officer to require information and documents from persons, and refusal or failure to comply with such a requirement would be an offence, the only defences being incapacity to comply or the defence that the requirement was not reasonable for the purposes of the Ordinance. The Committee considered that the offence ought to be refusal or failure to comply without reasonable excuse, so that a person who considered that the demands of the investigating officer were unreasonable, for example, because compliance would prevent the continuance of his business, could ask a court to excuse him from compliance with those demands. The Minister has now agreed to put the defence of reasonable excuse into this provision, although it should be noted that provisions similar to the one now in the Ordinance have been passed by the Parliament in various Acts. 
Section 15c of the Ordinance also provided that a person would not be excused from supplying information or documents on the grounds that they might incriminate him, and that information or documents compelled under the Ordinance could then be used against the person from whom they were required in certain proceedings under the ordinance and under a number of other ordinances. The Committee considered that this provision violated the long established right of a person not to be compelled to be a witness against himself. The Minister has agreed to amend this provision so that information and documents compelled under the Ordinance may not be used in any proceedings except proceedings for refusing or failing to comply with a requirement or for supplying false information. 
Section 15e of the Ordinance provided that officers would not be obliged to produce to a court information or documents obtained under the Ordinance except in proceedings under the Ordinance or certain other specified ordinances. The Committee is always wary of restricting the power of courts to obtain information and documents and of conferring upon executive or statutory bodies privilege from court orders. In this case the Committee considered that the provision in certain circumstances could hamper litigants, in proceedings unrelated to the Ordinance or the other laws specified, when they desired to subpoena information or documents to assist their case, and could prevent courts from obtaining the truth in some kinds of proceedings. The Minister has agreed to replace this provision with one which would allow the person from whom information or documents were obtained to make a submission to a court against their production in proceedings, so that, in effect, it will be for the court to decide whether it ought to obtain the information or documents in question. 
Section 13 of the Ordinance repealed and remade section 16 of the principal Ordinance whereby officers were immune from all civil or criminal proceedings in respect of anything done in good faith under the Ordinance. The Committee accepted this provision in the principal Ordinance because it had the effect only of conferring privilege in defamation actions in respect of statements made by officers of the Consumer Affairs Bureau. The amending Ordinance, however, by empowering officers to enter and search premises, under warrant, and to compel information and documents, gave a new significance to section 16, which would confer an immunity from legal proceedings which the Committee considered could be dangerous. For example, an officer might negligently cause damage to property while acting in good faith in seaching premises under the Ordinance, and would be immune from action arising from such damage. The Minister has agreed to amend the Ordinance so that the immunity conferred will be confined to defamation actions arising from statements made by officers. The Committee wishes to consider further in the future whether even this immunity is too wide. 
The Committee has subjected this Ordinance to very close and detailed scrutiny, but it is considered that all laws of this nature ought to be closely scrutinised, particularly from the point of view of protecting individual rights and civil liberties, including Bills which pass through this place and which sometimes are not given the close attention which they ought to have. It is to be hoped that if and when the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory gains legislative powers, it will subject the laws of the Territory to the kind of scrutiny which the Committee now gives to them. In view of the undertaking given by the Minister to amend this Ordinance so as to overcome the objections of the Committee, I withdraw Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, standing in my name. I would like to thank the Minister for the Capital Territory for his co-operation in relation to this matter. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference  in  the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of Northern and Central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
Lord Graham as Minister of External Affairs and Defence has said: 'International communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and the majority rule is no more than a smokescreen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa . . . It is even difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies and even much of its learning. . . .' 
That communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years and Cuban communist troops reported to number 25,000 are dominating nearby Angola, and possess modern missiles, etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe natural justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present Rhodesian Parliament to Australia, to do what they have been deprived of doing previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia 's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitioners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This notice of motion relates to certain Public Service (Salaries) Regulations which increased the salaries of certain academic staff in Service colleges, with retrospectivity of some nine months. The notice of motion was given on the last available day and the Regulations and Ordinances Committee had not received a reply to its request for an explanation of the delay in making the regulations. The Committee has now received from the Public Service Board an explanation of the delay and has resolved to take no further action in relation to the regulations. I therefore withdraw Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1 , standing in my name. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question in relation to the questions already asked. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister used the loans affair to achieve government and in view of the statement apparently made by the former AttorneyGeneral that the Prime Minister wanted the Sankey case to be taken over so as to terminate it, would the Minister not consider that it would be the general public's thinking that it is rather odd, in view of the Prime Minister's previous views before the election, that he does not want the matter to be prosecuted to the full, and that if there is nothing wrong this case should proceed in order to prove that the men charged are innocent or to prove that they are guilty if they are guilty? In my own opinion it would be the public's view that the matter should be prosecuted to the fullest. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Table  98 

<graphic href="074232197709143_33_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197709143_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

I present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate, in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of Northern and Central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
Lord Graham as Minister of External Affiairs and Defence has said: 
International Communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and majority rule is no more than a smokescreen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa ... It is even difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies and even much of its learning . . .' 
That Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years and Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25,000 are dominating nearby Angola, and posses modern missiles etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under Communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe natural justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present Rhodesian Parliament to Australia, to do what they have been deprived of doing previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia's own security and deference alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitioners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 

 Mr President, since this petition exceeds 250 words in length, I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That sections 27 and 55 of the Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance 1977, as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 29 of 1977, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, be disallowed. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That section 34 and Part VI of the Legal Aid Ordinance 1977, as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 3 1 of 1977, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1 9 10, be disallowed. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the Ombudsman Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1977 No. 104, and made under the Ombudsman Act 1976, be disallowed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that the opposition from the present Government parties when in Opposition was not to the fact that the loan which the then government sought to raise was from Arab countries but because it was sought through unrecognised money avenues, more particularly because of the extraordinarily high commission of 2 per cent that was to be paid on the loan and also because no valid reason was given as to why the money was being borrowed? 
-I bring up the fifty-eighth report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to the question asked earlier by  Senator Chaney.  In a report in the  Australian  it is stated that a person, Elizabeth Reid, has the backing of the Government in her application for a position in the timewasting and money-wasting organisation known as the United Nations. 
It is too. Tell me what good it does. Another honourable senator is attempting to interject. When he has finished I shall resume my question. I draw the attention of the Leader of the Government specifically to the paragraph in the article which states: 
The Government, apparently through the Prime Minister's Department notified its recommendation of  Ms Reid  to the office of the United Nations Secretary-General,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim. 
I ask the Leader of the Government: In view of the fact that this woman does not rate very highly with a very great proportion of people, particularly the women, of Australia- 
Well, as many people will remember the disgraceful and disgusting address she gave to students at the Australian National University - 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government who represents the Minister for National Resources in this place. Is it not a fact that the go ahead was given for uranium rnining by the Whitlam Labor Government? Is it not a fact that the Whitlam Labor Government actually invested Australian government money in uranium mining in this country? In view of the fact that demonstrators were so prominent on Sunday throughout Australia demonstrating against the export of uranium, can the Minister tell me whether public demonstrations were held against the Labor Government's decision to give the go ahead on uranium mining and to invest in it? Is it a fact that some of the ministers of religion who now hypocritically state that they are not demonstrating for political purposes did issue a statement during the double dissolution election campaign asking people to vote for the Whitlam Labor Government. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. In view of the very interesting information he gave the chamber this afternoon indicating the prominent part played by  Mr Whitlam  as Prime Minister in encouraging the development of uranium mining in Australia, is he aware that -since this Government continued that policy  Mr Whitlam  has led demonstrations against the mining of uranium? He has opposed it. Does this not indicate that  Mr Whitiam  is unreliable because he changes his mind? Does it not indicate that in  Mr Whit  lam's mind what Labor does when Labor is in office is correct but that when another government of a different political colour does the same thing, it is wrong? 
I seek leave to make a statement in relation to this matter. 
I think the Queensland redistribution is a pretty poor one. If the Parliament were to do the right thing it would throw it out, and that was my recommendation.  Senator Collard  has expressed very clearly the ridiculous aspects of the Queensland redistribution in relation to the lack of community interest. As he said, one can get out of a plane at Rockhampton and on one side walk into the Kennedy electorate on the other side walk into the Capricornia electorate. To me, that is the height of folly, and I cannot understand how the people who designed the electorates arrived at their decisions. It has always been recognised that there should be an affinity of interest in an electorate and that it should be arranged to make it as compact and as easily workable as possible. 
My State of Queensland is a big State, and the way in which the boundaries of some of these electorates wander around seems to indicate that the distribution was worked out in order to get the greatest possible mileage in an electorate. Generally speaking, there has not been a very great deal of satisfaction with the redistributions, and I do not think the redistribution for the State of Queensland is a good one at all. I am a Liberal, but I believe that the country areas require representation on a different basis from the city areas. City people are compacted into a small area. They do not have the difficulties that country people have. I have always believed that there should be a difference between the numbers in country electorates and the numbers in metropolitan electorates. The people who live in the country areas realise the disadvantages they have as against city people. I am disappointed with the Queensland redistribution, and I want it to be known that I oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to have my dissent recorded. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

by leaveAll the notices of motion standing in my name on the Business Paper today were given in respect of legislation which was under inquiry by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The first of the notices of motion relates to the Ombudsman Regulations. The Ombudsman Act passed by the Parliament in 1976 provided that Commonwealth statutory authorities would be subject to the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman, but that they could be excluded from his jurisdiction by regulation. Companies owned by the Commonwealth are excluded unless specifically included by the regulations. The regulations provide for exclusion of a number of statutory authorities and companies and the Regulations and Ordinances Committee considered that it was its duty to examine the reasons for their exclusion. The Committee considers that to restrict the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman is to restrict the rights of the citizen, and that Commonwealth authorities should not be excluded from the Ombudsman's jurisdiction except for the most cogent reasons. 
The Committee is concerned that the regulations exclude a number of commercial statutory authorities and companies, such as the various Commonwealth banks, on the ground that they are in competition with private enterprise and their commercial operations should not be subject to review by the Ombudsman. The Committee considers that the administrative acts of these bodies should be included in the Ombudsman's jurisdiction. The Committee does not object to the other bodies excluded by the regulations. These include judicial and industrial tribunals, bodies established by international agreement, the Auditor-General, and the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given the Committee an assurance that the Administrative Review Council will review the Ombudsman's jurisdiction and that the report of the Council will be made available to the Committee. The Committee has accepted this assurance, and also intends, when the report is available, to seek the opinion of the Ombudsman, and information on the number of cases he has been unable to investigate because of lack of jurisdiction under the regulations. On this basis the Committee is prepared to allow the regulations to stand. 
The second notice of motion relates to the Australian Capital Territory Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance. This ordinance provides that the Registrar of Motor Vehicle Dealers may adjudicate in disputes between sellers and buyers of motor vehicles and may make such orders as he considers just and there are penalties for enforcing his orders. Although there is an appeal to the courts against decisions cif the Registrar, and the Registrar may not deal with disputes which are before the courts, the Committee considers that these provisions are in principle objectionable, in that they confer on an administrative official the powers and responsibilities of a court. The provision of penalties to enforce the orders of the Registrar violates the principle that civil orders should be enforced in the first instance by civil and not criminal remedies. The other provision that the Committee considers objectionable, is to the effect that persons who bring witnesses in hearings before the Registrar are liable for the expenses of those witnesses, notwithstanding that the witnesses may be material to the proceedings. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has undertaken to review and amend all of these provisions, and the provisions will not come into effect until that review has occurred. The Committee will have the opportunity of examining the amendments when they are made. The Committee is willing to allow the ordinance to stand on the basis of this undertaking. 
The third notice of motion relates to the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Ordinance. This ordinance contains a provision to the effect that where a legally assisted person fails in litigation, and had costs awarded against him by the court, the Legal Aid Commission may or may not pay those costs. This decision is subject to no appeal except to a review committee appointed by the Commission itself. The Committee considers that there is a risk of grave injustice being done under this provision. A person may, with the assistance of legal aid, initiate litigation which he would not otherwise have undertaken. The defendant in those proceedings may be put to great expense in defending himself, and then, notwithstanding that the case fails, and the court orders that the plaintiff should pay the defendant's costs, the defendant may be unable to recover those costs because the Legal Aid Commission, and the review committee appointed by it, refuses to pay the costs regardless of the order of the court. The Committee is also disturbed to note that the review committees are to be the final avenue of appeal against decisions by the Commission, but that they are lacking in procedures under the ordinance and that the appellant is not even given a right to be heard. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in response to the Committee's view that a court should have the power to decide whether costs awarded against a legally assisted person will be paid by the Legal Aid Commission, has pointed out that this would require an Act of Parliament, and could not be achieved in the present Parliament. The Attorney-General has undertaken to refer to the Administrative Review Council the operation of the ordinance, and to review the ordinance in the light of experience in its first 12 months of operation. The ordinance will also be amended so as to give an appellant the right to be heard by a review committee. The Committee is prepared to allow the ordinance to stand on the basis of that assurance, but the Committee would hope to examine the recommendations of the Administrative Review Council, and also to discover whether there are any cases of costs being awarded against legally assisted persons, and whether the Legal Aid Commission pays those costs in those cases. 
The Senate will see from this statement that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has subjected these three pieces of subordinate legislation to close scrutiny to see whether the rights and liberties of persons are properly safeguarded, and it is hoped that during the new Parliament the operation of this legislation will be reviewed in accordance with the terms of my statement. In view of the undertakings given by the responsible Ministers, and the consequent decisions of the Committee, I withdraw Business of the Senate, Notices of Motion Nos 1, 2 and 3, standing in my name. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Historical development of the House of Common's exclusive power over money bills. 
In the early stages of Parliamentary history, it is apparent that the Common's battle for ascendancy over the Lords in relation to the granting of monies was pan of, and probably overshadowed by, the more imponant question of the establishment of the principle of no taxation without consent. It is generally agreed that the contitutional foundation for the principle is contained in Chapter 12 of the Magna Cana: "No scutage nor aid shall be imposed on our Kingdom unless by common counsel of our Kingdom, except for ransoming our person, for making our eldest son a Knight, and for marrying our eldest daughter; and for these there shall not be levied more than a reasonable aid. In like manner it shall be done concerning aids from the City of London". 
This principle was confirmed by the monarchy on many occasions, particularly in the Confirmatio Cartarum in 1297, with a considerably extended scope covering all taxation. While the Confirmatio Cartarum made no mention of the Commons, in practice the Commons were summoned to every Parliament after 1 3 1 1 , so that the concessions enforced by the Barons for their own benefit came to be applied automatically to the Commons. 
According to Einzig1, the most imponant step towards the supremacy of the Commons over the Lords, the right to initiate grants, appears to have been achieved almost without any struggle as an unintentional by-product of Parliament's victory over the King in the matter of imposing import duties. Until 1372 Kings usually negotiated the tonnage and poundage direct with the merchants of London and Bristol, and Parliament went through with a gesture of endorsing them by incorporating them into the annual grants. In 1373 Edward III was persuaded, in return for the grant of the tonnage and poundage for the subsequent three years, to agree that hencefonh tonnage and poundage would have to be authorised by Parliament as a whole. 
As Einzig points out, since the import duties were paid by the merchants, it stood to reason that the assembly which included their representatives should be first in chronological order to deal with such subsidies. The Prelates and Barons had no direct interest in the matter, since they did not have to pay the duties, nor did they have the expertise necessary for their negotiation. Thus the Lords agreed to the modification of the old-established constitutional formula whereby subsidies were granted by the Lords with the assent of the Commons. In 1 373 the grant was entered into the Rolls of Parliament as being granted by the Commons and assented to by the Lords. 
The full significance of the difference between granting and assenting to a grant does not appear to have been realised or become a matter of controversy until 1407. In that year Henry IV commenced the financial business of the session by a discussion with the Lords as to the probable requirments of the service of the year and the Commons were summoned to be told the result of the discussion. The Commons remonstrated that the King had not accorded them their accustomed privilege of first discussing his money requirements with them. As a result the King formally acknowledged the superiority of the Commons in a declaration before a joint meeting of both Assemblies on December 2, 1407, "that grants of Supply must take their rise in the Commons, and that the resulting grants, after the Lords has assented to them, ought to be reported by the mouth of the  Speaker  of the House of Commons". (Rolls of Parliament III 611)2. 2 See Anson: Law and Custom of the Constitution Oxford, 1892, Part 1, p. 253. 
Reid: The Politics of Financial Control, London, 1966, p. 55. 
Einzig: op cit, p. 110-111. 
The Lords, understandably, did not acquiesce in such a subordinate position, and frequently argued for their right to amend, as well as reject, financial bills. For example in 1671 they argued as follows: ". . . if the Lords who have the power of treating, advising, giving counsel and applying remedies, cannot amend, abate, or refuse a bill in pan, by what consequence of reason can they enjoy a liberty to reject the whole?" 
This was in response to the Commons resolution of 1671 which resolved, "That in all aids given to the King by the Common's the rate or tax ought not to be altered." The Common's attitude, as communicated to the Lords was Your Lordships . . . have a negative to the whole". 
In 1678 the Commons finally expressed their claim to superiority in the following significant resolution: "That all Aids and Supplies and Aids to His Majesty in Parliament, are the sole gin of the Commons; and all Bills for the granting of any such Aids and Supplies ought to begin with the Commons; and that it is undoubted and sole right of the Commons to direct, limit, and appoint in such Bills, the ends, purposes, considerations and conditions, limitations and qualifications of such grants, which ought not to be changed or altered by the House of Lords". 
Thus by the end of the Seventeenth century, it seems to be generally claimed that the House of Lords had a veto power, but not an amending power, over financial bills. (Although, as can be seen in the answer to question 3 below, the Lords did occasionally amend financial legislation of the Commons). As Einzig points out, however, "in some of these precedents the Commons did not stand on their dignity but accepted the Lord's Amendments, although, to save their face, they dropped the amended Bill and introduced an entirely new Bill in the exact form in which the old Bill was after its amendment by the Lords. In no instance  did these incidents lead to a constitutional crisis".3 3 Einzig: op cit, p. 304. 
A clash between the two Houses, with most imponant ramifications, did occur in 1860, over the rejection by the Lords of a Bill providing for the repeal of the paper duty. The Commons replied by passing three resolutions which, while not denying that the Lords might have a power of rejecting money bills, and intimating, as Anson suggest, that the Commons had it always in their power so to frame money bills as to make the right of rejection nugatory. The three resolutions are set out by Anson as follows: "The first recites that the right of granting aids and supplies to the Crown is in the Commons alone. 
The second, that although the Lords have exercised the power of rejecting bills of several descriptions relative to taxation, by negativing the whole, yet the exercise of that power by them has not been frequent, and is justly regarded by this House with peculiar jealousy, as affecting the right of the Commons to grant the supplies and to provide the ways and means for the service of the year. 
The third, that to guard for the future against an undue exercise of that power by the Lords, and  to  secure to the Commons their rightful control over Taxation and Supply, this House has in its own hands the power to impose and remit taxes, and to frame bills of supply, that the right of the Commons as to the matter, manner, measure, or time, may be maintained inviolate."4 
In 1 86 1 , these resolutions were put into effect. Gladstone 's Budget of April 15 included the repeal of the paper duties as pan of the total annual taxation measures, and from that year onwards the annual Bill contained all the taxation provisions and was named the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill. Subsequently it was to be renamed the Finance Bill. The House of Lords was thus forced into the position of having to accept or reject the financial proposals of the Commons as a whole. 
Before proceeding to an outline of the culmination of the Common s achievement of exclusive power over money bills as enshrined in the Parliament Act of 1 9 1 1 , it is interesting to set down a passage from a proposed report of the House of Commons Select Committee on Tax Bills of 1860 (the report was presented to the Parliament in a different final form) as it provides an indication of the depth of feeling in the Commons over Lords interference in financial legislation. The draft report proposed by  Mr Bright,  contained the following passage: "The Committee cannot doubt that the right which the Commons have contended for, and have maintained, is nothing less than an absolute control in determining the expenditure necessary for the service of the Crown, and the mode and the amount of the taxation which shall be imposed upon the People. If the Lords cannot begin a tax, if they cannot increase or abate a tax, yet if they may prolong a tax by refusing their assent to its repeal when that repeal has been voted by the House of Commons, then it appears to the Committee that the 'fundamental and inherent right' of the House of Commons to an absolute control over Taxation and Supply is not only menaced, but destroyed. "The Committee cannot conclude their Report without reminding the House, that, if henceforth, which they will not believe to be possible, no tax, hurtful to trade,' and grievous to the People, can be remitted unless the Lords be pleased to remit it, or can be even recommended by the Crown to be considered by the Commons with a view to its remission, with that full assurance which has heretofore existed that such a tax will be remitted; not only will the powers of the House of Commons be impaired, but the foundation of the ancient freedom of England will be undermined; for where shall that ancient freedom be found when the right to determine the mode and the sum of taxation is divorced from the Representative Branch of the Legislature". 
The events leading up to and subsequent to the Lords rejection of the Finance Bill in 1909, culminating in the General Election of January 1910 and the subsequent passing of the 1909 Bill are well enough known to be not dealt with here. The Government, however, was determined that the 1909 situation should not happen again. Consequently, on April 6, 1 9 10, it introduced the following Resolution: "That it is expedient that the House of Lords be disabled by law from rejecting or amending a Money Bill, but that any such limitation by law shall not be taken to diminish or qualify the existing rights and privileges of the House of Commons. For the purposes of this Resolution a Bill shall be considered a Money Bill if in the opinion of the  Speaker  it contains only provisions dealing with all or any of the following subjects, namely the imposition, repeal, remission, alteration or regulation of taxation; charges on the Consolidated Fund or the provision of money by Parliament; supply; the appropriation, control or regulation of public moneys; the raising or guaranteeing of any loan or the repayment thereof; or matters incidental to these subjects or any of them ". 
After lengthy and acrimonious debate, the Resolution was passed by a large majority, and was followed by legislation embodying it, which finally clearly curtailed the financial powers of the House of Lords. The relevant clause of the 1911 Parliament Act reads as follows: "If a Money Bill, having been passed by the House of Commons and sent up to the House of Lords at least one month before the end of the session, is not passed by the House of Lords without Amendment within one month after it is so sent up, the Bill shall, unless the House of Commons directs to the contrary, be presented to  His  Majesty and becomes an Act of Parliament on the Royal Assent being signified, not withstanding that the House of Lords have not consented to the Bill ". 
Finally, it is an irony of history that had the Parliament Act been in force in 1909, the  Speaker  of that dme might well have refused to certify the Finance Bill as a Money Bill. Lord Ullswater, who as J. W. Lowther was  Speaker  in 1909 wrote in his memoirs "In my judgment the celebrated Finance Bill of 1909 . . . would not have come under the provisions of Clause 1 Section 2 of the Parliament Act as a ' Money Bill ', for it contained a number of provisions which were not within the definition of that clause and section". (A Speaker's Commentary, Vol. II, p. 103). 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I move: 
That  Senator Wright  be granted an extension of time. 
-I do not think that  Senator Wright  should be limited to five minutes. 
-A11 right; I move: 
That  Senator Wright  be granted an extension of time of five minutes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I think  Senator Wright  is to be congratulated on the very long and interesting speech that he made in regard to these pieces of legislation. These Bills are of immense importance to the industry and commerce of this country. Because of that they should really excite a great deal more participation and interest by parliamentarians. Over the years the Waterside Workers Federation, as has been pointed out, has been an instrumentality that has contained quite a lot of the communist element. My memory goes back a very long way in relation to the Waterside Workers Federation. As a young chap I was a paymaster for a shipping company in Mackay, north Queensland. From that area came Jim Healy who afterwards became the General Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia. Jim Healy was an avowed communist. I well remember money being raised in the city of Mackay to send him to Russia to study communism. That was the genesis of the movement forward of this organisation to a communist outlook. 
In view of the importance of this field to industry generally in Australia I feel that  Senator Wright's  amendment, which provides that these Bills be looked at by a committee of the Senate, is a very wise and good one. If there are doubts about legislation such as this, surely we should know more about it.  Senator Wright  gave illustrations of the terrific cost incurred by people shipping produce because of what has gone on in this industry and the associated aspects from governments of previous days until now. I think they are striking illustrations of the terrific costs being imposed upon industry because of what has gone on. Therefore, surely we, as parliamentarians, should want to know more about what is going on and what effect these Bills will be likely to have upon industries affected by the maritime situation m Australia. 

 Senator Wright pointed out many aspects.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack also brought forward some very interesting aspects. Now an interesting aspect has been brought forward by  Senator Lewis.  Is there any need to rush this legislation through the Parliament? Is there any indication that we must conform immediately with whatever some sections of this industry should want? This legislation deserves the closest examination. I think that an examination by a committee of this Senate would be a very wise thing and a very good thing. It is in the interests of this country to have the best legislation in a field in which the level of cost very often can destroy a worthy industry. For those reasons I have much pleasure in seconding the amendment moved by  Senator Wright. 
I present the 59th Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, relating to certain legislation recently considered by the Committee. 
I want to say just a few words. During the long period I have served in this chamber former  Senator Mattner  became one of my closest friends. Over many years he and I, together with fellow South Australian the late former  Senator Hannaford,  formed a very strong friendship. I found former  Senator Mattner  to be a very loyal person, a very genial character and one whom I think everyone liked.  His  general characteristics regarding public service and war service have been adequately outlined by other speakers. However, I thought I should express these sentiments. I believe that those of us who knew him feel very deeply his passing. 
I desire to join in this motion of condolence on the death of former  Senator Sir John  Spicer. He had a very close relationship with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. In the period 1940 to 1 943 he was  Chairman  of the Committee. As honourable senators would know, the Committee has a legal adviser who examines the regulations. He was the first legal adviser to be engaged in the work of the Committee. He therefore played a very important part in that work. When I entered this chamber in 1949, having no idea of the work of committees, I found my name on the list of members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I said to  Senator Spicer:  'Why on earth did they put me on this Committee? What is it?' He said: 'I thought we were paying you a compliment by putting you on that Committee'. As a result, I looked into the matter further and consequently I am now serving my twenty-ninth year on the Committee. The very few words that he spoke to me on that occasion made me think. 

 Senator Spicer was of a quiet disposition and a very thoughtful person. I felt that he thoroughly knew his work. He served as Attorney-General from the time when I came into this Parliament in 1949. 1 felt great respect for him and I know that throughout his career, not only in this place but also in a judicial capacity, he carried out his work in a manner which earned the respect of everyone. I therefore join in the expression of condolence to his family and relatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
DEATH OF FORMER SENATOR MacDONALD 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)-  Mr President,  it is with deep regret that I inform the Senate of the death on 18 January 1978 of former  Senator the  Honourable A. N. MacDonald. Allan MacDonald represented Western Australia in the Senate from 1935 to 1947. Like that of Edward Mattner, Allan MacDonald 's period of service as a senator was preceded by a period of distinguished service in the First World War in the Australian Imperial Force. In the Senate, Allan MacDonald served as Minister without portfolio from 1937 to 1939, first under Prime Minister Lyons and then in the Page Ministry. During that time he assisted the Minister for Commerce and later the Treasurer. Allan MacDonald will also be remembered as a former  Chairman  of the Western Australian Lotteries Commission and as a leading figure in the Western Australia National Party, the forerunner of the Liberal Party, being Secretary of that Party from 1930 to 1935. 
I move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honourable Allan Nicoll MacDonald, former  Senator for  Western Australia from 1935 to 1947, and Minister of the Crown from 1 937 to 1 939, and that the Senate places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania- Leader of the Opposition in the Senate)- On behalf of the Opposition I support the motion of condolence moved by  Senator Withers.  The former  Senator MacDonald  was unknown to me, and I daresay to just about everybody in this chamber, but it is apparent that he too gave great service to this country both as a parliamentarian and also in a military capacity. The Opposition joins the Government in extending deepest sympathy to his relatives. 

 Senator WEBSTER (Victoria-Minister for Science)- My National Country Party colleagues join in this motion of condolence to the relatives of the later former senator, the Honourable Allan MacDonald. Although he was a man unknown to me and, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has said, unknown to many honourable senators, the notification relating to his death indicated that he was a man of considerable courage and one who left his mark in the State from whence he came. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
I support the argument put by  Senator Harradine  in favour of members other than those in the main parties being able to serve on Senate committees. I think that a person who has a special interest in a committee, or special qualifications, would be a valuable addition to it. As one who has taken a very keen interest in the committee system since I became a senator almost 29 years ago, I would say that the committee system has been responsible for the Senate being a much more effective body than it was in former days. Therefore, I think the stronger we can make our committees, by including in them people who are really interested in a given subject or who have the qualifications to offer valuable advice, the better the Senate will be. We should work wherever we can to widen the scope of membership of committees. Therefore, I think this is a very simple matter that should be thought out so that Independent senators who are keen to serve on a committee can do so and that everything possible will be done to make that a reality. The work of the Senate is such that the more we can do to make it more effective, especially through the committee system, the better it will be. I strongly commend the points put by  Senator Harradine  regarding Independent senators serving on committees. 
-I regard this move as a very severe restriction of the rights of individual senators. I feel that it is a very serious matter when it is suggested that such a restriction should take place. It is very easy for people to laugh and to be supercilious about these matters, but an honourable senator may have a view about which others may not be aware or which they may not understand prior to the honourable senator moving a motion about that matter. It may be difficult for an honourable senator to get four honourable senators to subscribe to his proposition, but if he can put up a good case on the matter he may induce other people to support him. To require that four senators be in support of a matter is to be very restrictive as far as the Senate is concerned. Since I have been a senator matters have been raised by senators, on the Government side particularly, who, one would have thought, would have seen the folly of what was being proposed. Instead they blindly followed the leader. While we still have people being afraid to support someone because he has an independent character? I remember on one occasion the Government wanted to impose a 40 per cent sales tax on cars. I remember that  Senator Wright  and I were the only two senators on this side who were prepared to oppose such an imposition. Can one imagine what the car industry would have been today if a 40 per cent sales tax had been imposed then? 
It would be wrecked completely. Our Government would have wrecked it.  Senator Wright  and I were snubbed; we were not talked to. It goes to show that although one may be right on something, it is very hard to get other people's support; more particularly before one puts one's case to the Senate. We have to remember that Parliament is the focal point of democracy in this country. Therefore, the individual senator has the right to express himself. If he wants to raise a matter of public importance, there is no reason why he should not be able to do so. To require that he has to go canvass the support of other honourable senators before he can put the matter before the chamber is to take a step backwards. Therefore, as has  Senator Wright,  I strongly oppose this move, which I think is a negation of democracy. I should be very sorry to see the Committee of the Whole accept that proposal. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question in view of arguments raised yesterday in regard the Queensland Government taking over Aboriginal missions at Mornington Island and Aurukun in that State. Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the statement that the reasons for the Queensland Government's action were poor educational and health facilities at these two missions? Are these two aspects not vital to the people on the missions? Is it not a fact also that the Minister in charge of Aboriginal affairs in Queensland is a very capable Liberal Party member,  Mr Charles  Porter? Is it the intention of the Federal Government to take notice of a Liberal such as  Mr Porter  or of a bunch of socialists in the Uniting Church - 
I went to the Presbyterian Church for 70 years and they are a bunch of socialists. Is the Government not aware, or does it not remember, that a number of the ministers who constitute the Uniting Church in Australia issued a statement at the time of the most recent double dissolution asking people to return the Whitlam Labor Government? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerning the mission stations at Mornington Island and Aurukun in Queensland, about which so much was said last evening. Is it not a fact that the basis of the trouble that the Queensland Government sees is the separatism that is being practised between the Aborigines and the other people of Australia? Is the basis of this separatism the principle that the two races shall not mix? Is this not apartheid? Is this a policy that was initiated by the Whitlam Labor Government and which is now being followed by the Liberal socialist Government? Did the Minister hear in the radio news this morning that the ratbag socialists of the Uniting Church in Australia had stated that they wanted the separatism to continue? This indicates very clearly a strong form of apartheid to which the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs have stated in the past that they are opposed. As it now appears that they support it, does that not indicate that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs are being hypocritical in supporting the move against the Queensland Government in this matter? 
-I oppose this Bill. When I look at the commotion that has been created it makes me realise how a mountain can be made out of a molehill. Let us look at the simple story. Some time ago the Queensland Government realised that things were not the best in some of these areas. It investigated the matter and as a result indicated that it was prepared to take over those areas in order to bring them to a higher standard. The Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Porter,  yesterday made a statement on this subject. I have known  Mr Porter,  a Liberal Party Minister, for many years. He was our Party's State Executive officer in Queensland. I have always found him to be a capable, honest and sincere person and I believe that he has been a first class parliamentarian. He is the type of person who in his portfolio would do his best for the Aboriginal people. However, before he took over his portfolio the situation on these reserves had become known and there had been discussions with the then Presbyterian Church which was looking after these missions. The Queensland Government realised that things were not the best but gave the Church extra time- 12 months- to try to straighten out the problems. Still the situation did not improve.  Mr Porter  in making his speech yesterday said: 
Extraordinary efforts have been made by the Commonwealth, the media and the Uniting Church to suggest that action for the transfer of management came as a bolt out of the blue, that the peoples had been perfectly happy with the BOEMAR management, and our action was precipitate and ruthless and against the people's settled wishes. These are the allegations- but what are the facts? As far back as 1973 Cabinet had expressed its concern with an unsatisfactory management situation at Aurukun and the Church was told that the arrangements for management with its generous funding accompaniment ($750,000 in the current year) required the communities be managed consistent with the State's policies applying to all other Aboriginal reserves in Queensland. 
Again in 1974 the Church was informed of further Cabinet concern that the two communities in question and that the position was so bad that they were prepared to assume forthwith the management role. Church assurances were again given, and so action was deferred. 
Then came a period of mounting concern expressed by the peoples as community conditions deteriorated to such an extent at Aurukun that many people felt they could no longer live in the settlement proper, and went out to more remote areas to fend for themselves. 
The situation has reached crisis point where, in February 1976 my predecessor, the honourable Claude Wharton, MLA, and his director, visited Aurukun accompanied by both the Moderator-General of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, the Reverend P. Wood, and the senior secretary of 
BOEMAR, the Reverend John Brown. At the pressing request of the Church it was at length agreed we would defer assuming management from the Church for a further 12-month period, giving the Church a final opportunity to provide effective management. But if there was not the promised improvement, we would then have to act. 
That clearly indicates that this is not something that has happened overnight. The situation has been developing for some time. In many respects the position at Aurukun was very serious. The educational standards fell. 
-The health standards fell and also there was a shortage of food and consequent malnutrition. 
My friend  Senator Thomas  asks who is responsible and then suggests that it is a State responsibility. Apparently the Aboriginal children had previously been taught with other children.  Mr Whitlam,  whom  Senator Thomas  and other socialists on this side now so strongly support- and  Senator Thomas  knows what has happened in his State- brought in this divisive policy which separated Aboriginal people from everybody else, thus creating an apartheid situation. Of course, some time ago honourable senators who are supporting this measure were opposed to it. They are so consistent. 
It was for these reasons that there was a change in the system. It is all very well to talk about people managing their own affairs but, to show honourable senators the difficulties that were experienced in regard to food, in January 1 976 the Aurukun Community Incorporated Pty Ltd, an Aboriginal co-operative sponsored by the Commonwealth- the Commonwealth knows how to run everything in Australia but does not know how to get unemployment down or how to stop strikes- was indebted to the extent of $66,000 to a northern firm for supplies. A year later the debt had been reduced to about $50,000. It has now been cleared.  Mr Porter's  statement continued:  lt is difficult to understand, however, how a community store catering for a population of 700-odd could operate effectively with such a debt and the insistence by an alternative supplier for goods on the basis of cash within seven days. 
We find that a back-up of at least two months reserve stocks would be essential, in such remote localities. Consequently, it must be accepted that for a considerable period the people were being deprived of essential foodstuffs. 
Yet people still talk about running things for the Aborigines and how they therefore are going to help them.  Mr Porter  continued: 
The debt of $50,000 which has now been cleared was paid presumably as a result of excessive prices being charged in the store. 
Honourable senators, I am sure, would enjoy paying the following prices: Twelve ounces of cheese cost $1.30 compared with 55c at a neighbouring community; a drum of flour cost $15.30 compared with $9.20 at a neighbouring community. 
If it was subsidised by the Government it is still a hefty price. Coffee cost $6 compared with $3.50 at a neighbouring community. This is what these people had to pay. 

 - Senator Thomas does not like the truth. Two kilograms of sugar cost $1.20 compared with 53c at a neighbouring community and toilet paper per roll cost $2.40- obviously a rare and costly item. We have heard about the Uniting Church and others running things there very well but this is a striking illustration that they are not. Our health authority in Queensland performs a very good service and I do not think anybody would say that the State health authorities would go out of their way to make crooked reports in order to justify a political point of view. I think that the public servants in the Queensland State Government are as good as those anywhere else. 

 - Dr Edwards does not come into this. When it comes to doctors, you have to be careful. Doctors look after themselves. I remember the Sister Kenny business. The doctors would not have a bar of her; no fear. They said: 'Why worry about those people with paralysis? Sister Kenny went to the United States and started a number of clinics there, Eventually our doctors agreed that there was something to her methods. That is why a number of people have been cured. Our doctors were so intelligent and so public-spirited that they would not agree with her. They reported against her. 
I believe that the Queensland Department of Health works on a reasonably good basis. The health report in March 1973 of the situation at Aurukun- and this is interesting- revealed that 48 per cent of the children were greatly under weight for their age. Twenty-four per cent had anaemia and there were bad infestations of parasites. Checks made in May 1975 disclosed that less than half of those children were showing even the standard weight increase. 
No, this was under the Church for which you are standing up. The parasite infestations remained and scabies was widespread. In October of last year the reports of malnutrition at Aurukun were so grave that the head of the Aboriginal health team,  Dr  Musgrave, went there to check on the situation for himself. 
It was not the fault of our Queensland Department of Health. I am sure that  Senator Baume,  being a doctor, will agree that this is worth listening to. This is what  Dr Musgrave  reported: 
The situation at Aurukun is very bad and malnutrition especially is a serious problem . . . Fruit arrives only once a week and there is no milk supply at all . . . There was hardly any food in the store . . . The headmaster complained that the breakfast for children comprises damper and tea, and there was no lunch except mangoes, and this affected their alertness at school ... It seems likely the standards of health, mental and physical, will continue to deteriorate, as will the social climate. The remedy must lie in the development of well defined policies for the future advancement of the people living at Aurukun. 
On 27 November last, the Department of Health medical officer reported that: 
Complaints are also to hand about the poor cleansing of night soil pans - 
This will strike honourable senators as being very good from the dirty health point of view-  and the same truck used for refuse removal is used without prior cleansing for picking up food from aircraft. 
Yet honourable senators are talking about the wonderful way in which Aurukun is run. 
I think it is disgraceful to suggest, as Opposition senators are doing, that everything in the garden is lovely. The simple position is this. If the State Government finds those conditions existing, what is wrong with it trying to make those conditions better for the people? 
-What is all that rat-tatting over there? 
Opposition senators say that they are standing up for these people on the missions. They are not standing up for them at all. They are just doing a lot of ratbagging and a lot of political ploying. 
I am reporting that the people you are supporting in running the missions, the now Uniting Church - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Order!  Senator Wood,  please direct your comments through the Chair. 

 -Yes, Mr Acting Deputy President. But  Senator Missen  is trying to make out that the Queensland Department of Health is to blame. It is not. The Uniting Church is running the show and it is to blame. Our State Government, in a sensible way, says: 'Well, it is about time the missions were taken over'. Would you, as a Federal authority, like such reports to be made if you were running the show? 
-No. In an article in the  Courier Mail  in September 1 974,  Senator Bonner  he must have woken up to what the then Federal Government was like, but he has forgotten now- said that he did not believe that the Federal Government of the day and the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs were competent to handle the affairs of Queensland Aboriginals. That is what he thought about the then Government. In fact in Brisbane the previous night, the then Federal Liberal Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  said that he believed that the State Government had shown a great deal of concern for Queensland Aborigines. 
-There are none so blind as those who will not see. It is very hard to drive nails into heads of iron. 
Wood can have a straight grain and run true, and not be afraid to express himself in an honest and sincere manner. 
-I do not split. I am not like some people. I am trying to point out that the State Government was doing the right thing if it believed that things were wrong. The Labor side does not like to hear this because it was this separatist movement, the Whitlam Government, which initiated and ultimately brought about these conditions. Opposition senators do not like that to be known. In 1974 people on our side of the chamber opposed very strongly any move by the Federal Government of the day.  Senator Bonner,  who now proclaims that everything in the world is worse because of the Queensland Government's actions, is reported as saying in a  Courier Mail article  of September 1974: 
If they - 
That is, the Federal Government-  take over Aboriginal affairs in Queensland and make the same amount of mistakes they have made in the Northern Territory, God help my people. 
-Do you think so? 
That is very nice. A mountain has been made out of a molehill on this question. It just goes to show that if the Federal Government really tackled the problem of unemployment and industrial chaos in this country, instead of fiddling around with things like this, it would be doing a lot better for this country. I say that without any hesitation at all. This Government is drifting towards a socialistic trend. There is no question about it. This trend was introduced by  Mr Whitlam  and it looks to me as though there is no greater admirer of  Mr Whitlam  than  Mr Fraser.  He imitates him time after time. 
Yes, he has really become a second  Mr Whitlam.  The point is this: The way the Government has been going, it has developed a socialist streak. I know that our Queensland Government has that impression of this Federal Government. To show how far the Queensland Liberal Party platform on Aboriginal welfare differs from the Federal Liberal policy platform, I shall read part of it to honourable senators. It states: 
Queensland has a responsibility for the care and welfare of its indigenous people. The Liberal Party will promote measures - 
1 ) to ensure that all Aborigines and part-Aborigines will attain the same manner of living as other Australians and live as members of a single Australian community - 
-Oh, do not be so childish. This is the Queensland Liberal Party platform on Aboriginal welfare. I shall tell you later about  Senator Bonner  so far as this Liberal policy is concerned. The platform continues: 
. enjoying the same rights and privileges, accepting the same responsibilities, observing the same customs and influenced by the same beliefs, hopes and loyalties as other Australians. 
Any special measures taken for Aborigines or partAborigines are regarded as temporary measures, not based on race, but intended to meet the need for special care and assistance to protect them from any ill-effects of sudden change and to assist them to make the transition from one stage to another in such a way as will be favourable to their social, economic and political advancement. 
-That is the Queensland Liberal Party policy. It was stated in a telegram to me from  Mr Porter.  He also said: 
From the foregoing you will see Queensland policies totally in line with this platform whereas Commonwealth policies totally its reverse. Therefore in Bill Commonwealth is denying pledged Liberal policy on Aborigines and promulgating pledged Australian Labor Party policies in lieu. 
That is the policy of the Liberal Party.  Mr Bill  Knox is the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland. He is a fine person, for whom I have a very high regard. He told me that on the occasion of formulating the policy he invited  Senator Bonner  to the policy meeting.  Senator Bonner  approved all the policy that they discussed. 
-I believe that what  Mr Knox  said is correct. He said that  Senator Bonner  was invited and that he agreed with everything that was said. This is a simple situation which has been magnified out of all proportion. The basis of it is to attack the Premier of Queensland and his Government. 
He is not a socialist. If only we had him as Leader here with Bill Knox as  Deputy  Leader, this country would be a lot better off.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is the best leader in Australia. He is not afraid, he is strong, he is honest and he sets the requirements of the people as his goals. He does not take one step forward and two steps back like someone else I could talk about. This Government is adopting a socialist policy which it seems to do so often recently. I think the Queensland Liberal Party policy as enunciated is a much better one. There is no question that the suggestion that these people must be kept separate from other Australians is apartheid. It is a separatism policy. 
It is separatism. It is apartheid. It is a Whitlam policy and Malcolm Fraser, being a great admirer of Whitlam, is following in his footsteps. How can anybody tell me that a Liberal Government should adopt Australian Labor Party policies and divert from good Liberal policies? 

 - Sir Robert Menzies was an outstanding personality. 
He was a very good Prime Minister. I may have had arguments with him but he was the best Prime Minister we had in the 29 years in which I have been a senator. People change.  Senator Bonner  is kicking up a great fuss about things now. I told honourable senators what he said four years ago. He was very strong about these matters. He would not have a bar of the Federal Government. I can remember him saying that he stood up for the Queensland Government and its administration of Aboriginal affairs. He said: 'I am proud to be a product of the Queensland Aboriginal settlements '. Why has this change taken place? People should have good memories about some of these matters. 
It is amazing how people from other States tell people in Queensland how to run things. They are such intelligent people in the south. The trouble with the southern areas is that there is so much fog that people cannot see very clearly. In Queensland we have such bright sunshine that we can see much further ahead than they can. As for these people telling us what to do in Queensland and how much they know, it is a lot of baloney.  Senator Wright  is an exception. He is a Tasmanian senator. He has been one of our outstanding parliamentarians in the 29 years that I have been a senator.  Senator Archer  also comes from Tasmania. Then, of course, there is that famous personality, Michael Hodgman, from one of the House of Representatives seats in Tasmania telling us what we should do and how Bjelke-Petersen should be thrown out of office by the Governor. 
-Yes, he is dead right. All the Aboriginals in Tasmania are dead. The Tasmanians shot them all. They are dead right, all right. They are right dead. This is the type of man who blows off steam and tells us what to do. 

 - Mr Fraser is said to be so conscientious and concerned about the coloured people. I remind honourable senators that he was at a convention in Africa when he attacked Rhodesia for apartheid, which he practises in Australia, and on other aspects with which I shall deal later. At that time the coloured people of his own electorate rose up and said: 'We are out of work. What is he doing for us?' I would like to know how sincere  Mr Fraser  is. Has he given a personal demonstration of his sincerity to those coloured people on his property at Nareen in his electorate? How many Aborigines has he employed there? People tell us what we should do. Michael Hodgman comes from a State which treated the Aboriginals so well that it shot them. 
I have had a coloured person working in my travel office. 
-Not far from  Senator Bonner's  colour. He is not a full blooded Aboriginal. However, I do not make any distinction about colour. 
Black is a very popular material with the ladies. They like wearing black because it is a very beautiful material. 
-Not only at funerals but at other times. One does not get that funeral aspect when dealing with this sort of thing. Honourable senators should have some brighter thoughts on the matter. They will then realise that the Queensland Government properly looks after its Aboriginal people. I object to people like Hodgman and others telling us what to do. I know that they are great intelligent people. A lot of claptrap has been spoken about the Uniting Church. It is very nice for people to think that a person of the cloth or a minister must be sacrosanct and untouchable. As I have said before, members of the Uniting Church are rabid socialists. If honourable senators have good memories they may remember that on the occasion of the first double dissolution they issued a statement in the Press asking people to vote for the Whitlam Government. They signed their names, Noel Preston and so on. 

 - Senator Missen said: Wicked'. Does he think it is right that they should use their positions as church leaders to tell people to vote for the Labor Party? These are the people who are trying to talk about - 
Debate interrupted. 
-I give notice that, eight sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Defence Force (Salaries) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 3, and made under the Defence Act 1903, the Naval Defence Act 1910 and the Air Force Act 1 923, be disallowed. 
I give notice that, eight sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That sub-section (2) of section 42 of the Physiotherapists Registration Ordinance 1977, contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 60 of 1977, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, be disallowed. 
-I give notice that, eight sittings days after today, I shall move: 
That the following regulations be disallowed: 
the amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1977 No. 278 and made under the Naval Defence Act 1910; and 
the amendment of the Air Force Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1977 No. 279 and made under the Air Force Act 1923. 
I was debating this Bill last night. I went into some detail in regard to the situation at Aurukun. I point out again the great clamour by some people to support this legislation. It was created by the Liberal-National Country Party Government and substantially has been supported by the Opposition. In my view, from what has been said, they are supporting a state of conditions in the area that is not the best for the people in the missions. Therefore, I think it is a matter of using common sense. It is nice to do things in order to pander to certain people or to try to create the impression in the minds of the public that you are a great public spirited benefactor with a warm human heart. What really counts is whether a person is doing the right thing or the wrong thing. 
Many honourable senators were not in this chamber last night. The same situation applies now. Probably some honourable senators who were not here last night are here now. If anybody tells me that the situation I am about to relate is desirable I will be amazed. As I said last night, the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement made a speech on the matter and gave quite a lot of detail. He is a man for whom I have a high regard. He said that a health report on the Aurukun community showed that in 1973 48 per cent of children were greatly under weight for their age. 
In reply, I put the point to you,  Mr President,  that it is recognised, even in political campaigning, that one does not drive a nail home with one punch; it is done with a succession of punches. It does no harm to repeat a very good point. As this debate is of very great importance to the welfare of the people of Aurukun and as this Parliament has to make a decision, I see nothing wrong in repeating an argument. So far as I am concerned I have an hour to speak - 
Yes I have, and half an hour has gone. I see no reason why this very important meat in the argument should not be repeated. 
Yes, I shall repeat the interjections if  Senator Chaney  wants me to. I think the interjections were a bit on the foolish side. 
-In March 1973 the health report on Aurukun - 
-On the debate on the third reading of this Bill I draw the attention of the chamber to an article which appeared in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  by  Mr Peter  Bowers. 
Yes, all honourable senators have read it but apparently the point has not been emphasised in their minds. Once again we have a change of mind. According to the report by  Mr Bowers-  it seems to be well substantiateda little over a year ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was in complete accord with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  with regard to Aboriginal affairs. Now, apparently, the Prime Minister has changed his mind again. This indicates to me that we cannot rely on the legislation that is in the process of being passed at the moment. How do we know that there will not be a change in another few months? The report indicates quite clearly that this Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, has not had a definite policy on this matter and that somebody somewhere has managed to get him to agree to the legislation to which I am opposed and which is being debated in this chamber. This is a striking illustration of the change of mind that has taken place. We know that in 1 974 when the Whitlam Government launched some changes to matters affecting Aboriginal affairs the Liberal and National Country Parties were opposed to those changes. 
Yes, honourable senators certainly have side-stepped. I am sure that the people of Australia do not know where honourable senators stand because they change step so often. It does appear that the Prime Minister changed his mind, as well as a lot of other people. We have now had this evidence given by  Sir Peter  Bowers in his article. We heard striking evidence during the debate, and the information came forward that  Senator Bonner  himself changed his mind after stating that the Queensland Government - 
Do not be such a crawler: You shot them all in Tasmania. At the time  Senator Bonner  complimented the Queensland Government. He was proud to have come from those missions and he said that he objected very strongly to the Federal people having anything to do with them. Now, of course, there is such a change of mind that the people of this country must be worried about whether anybody has any stability of thinking so far as legislation is concerned. I want to make it clear that there is evidence that the Prime Minister supported the views of those of us who are opposing the Bill today. Now we find that there has been a complete change. Where are we going to be if we have this continual changing of mind by the Prime Minister and the Liberal-National Country Party Government? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question relating to the sugar industry. Why nas the Government taken such a long time to make up its mind whether this industry should receive an increase in the price of domestic sugar? As this is a very important industry in Queensland and partly in New South Wales, why cannot we get a decision on this matter, particularly in view of the fact that this industry's price for domestic sugar is well down taking into account the inflation which has taken place over the years? Will the Government give as much consideration to the sugar industry, which is a very important industry in Queensland, as it does to some other questions that it fiddles around with and does not know very much about? As this matter is urgent, will the Government get on with the job and do it properly? 
I bring up the 60th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the amendment of the Defence Force (Salaries) Regulations contained in statutory rule 1978 No. 3. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I give notice that eight sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Australian National Railways general by-law, contained in Australian National Railways by-law No. I and made under the Australian National Railways Act 1917, be disallowed in respect of clauses 1 7, 1 8, 34 and 54. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relating to the purchase of planes. 
-Well, I am being honest about it. Is it not a fact that members of this Government, when they were in Opposition, were most trenchant in their criticism of the great use made by  Mr Whitlam  of chartered planes when he travelled overseas? In view of the projected purchase by this Government, will it not appear to the public that we on the Government side can be charged with very considerable inconsistency in our arguments? Is this not the sort of action which undermines belief by the public in the truthfulness of statements by parliamentarians? In view of the fact that the red herring of security is being used to support the purchase, is it not a fact that the present Prime Minister was a very great user of VIP planes within Australia when he was a Minister? 
It is all right; I see the light. There are clouds over the honourable senator. Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister uses VIP aircraft almost exclusively and does not travel on commercial airlines? Is it not a fact that in some cases Ministers can use VIP aircraft? I ask the next question in view of the so-called red herring of security. What makes the lives of the Prime Minister and the Ministers of this Commonwealth any more precious than the lives of the parliamentarians of this country, who have to travel with the general run of people? Would it not be of advantage to this Parliament if our leading parliamentarians, such as the Prime Minister and Ministers, were to travel with and sit alongside the general public so that they could talk to the general public and learn really what is wanted and what is going on? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In view of a question asked about drilling for oil et cetera on our Great Barrier Reef, I ask the Minister to point out to the Minister concerned that a lot of nonsense is spoken about the destruction of the reef caused by drilling for oil. Will he point out to the Minister that nature itself is one of the greatest destroyers of the reef? 
That is the trouble in Victoria. They get so many fogs that they cannot see very clearly. In Queensland we get so much sunshine that we can see so much further ahead. A fall of rain in certain proportions on the reef when it is uncovered will destroy the reef as it did off Mackay- a very beautiful reef- when the area received 58 inches of rain in three days. Will he also point out to the Minister that nature rebuilds and that that reef is as good today as it ever was. Will he draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that a much greater threat hangs over the reef, if oil is going to kill it, from tankers which ply up and down the coast of Queensland. One of those tankers running onto a rock would pose a much greater danger to the Great Barrier Reef than would a spill from oil drilling. Will the Minister give those facts to the Minister concerned so that he will get a proper perspective as to what constitutes a danger to the reef? 

 -Mr President, I support the International Sugar Agreement because it is an attempt by the sugar growing countries of the world, with the exception of the European Economic Community, to arrive at a stabilised price for sugar. Over a period of years there have been violent fluctuations in the world price of sugar. I remember that some years ago the price rose to the unprecedented figure of something over f 100 a ton. I think it was fi 12. That in turn brought about an increase in production. It is correct to say that whenever the price of a commodity rises in that way and there is no control of production, naturally people increase their production, because the price is good, in order to reap the benefit of that high price. Because people try to cash in on the high price it usually happens that there is then an overproduction, which happened at the time of which I am speaking. 
In 1974 there was an unprecedented rise in the price of sugar, which went to over $1,000 a ton. No one could ever have conceived of such a price for sugar, and naturally such a price set off a movement to cash in on the high market. As a result, more cane was grown. Too much cane was grown, and today we have the same result as before- low world prices. At various times agreements have been made, and there have been movements in recent years to get this International Sugar Agreement going. Ultimately we have reached the point at which Australia is one of the signatories to the Agreement. Unfortunately, as I said before, the European Economic Community is not a signatory and is acting in such an irresponsible and probably greedy way that I believe the other sugar producing nations of the world should take it by the scruff of the neck and bar its secondary products in countries where the Agreement applies. That is the way to treat these people. That is what they understand. The trouble is that most of the governments are too weak. 
The basis of this Agreement is an attempt to develop a price that is reasonably profitable for the sugar industry, with a minimum of 1 1 rising to a maximum of 21c. It has been pointed out that the price of sugar is below 1 lc. When this Agreement was being discussed and was introduced I think it was recognised that there would be some difficulty in establishing that price but that over a reasonable period it would be achieved. In order to bring about this result the industry in this country, like the industry in other countries, cut back its production. In the case of Australia there will be a certain amount of overproduction of sugar, which it is proposed to store. The Agreement makes financial arrangements whereby the people who bear the costs of that production and storage will receive some financial assistance. 
Sugar cane will be left in the fields and will not be crushed. That is a very serious blow to the sugar farmers of this country, but they have been far sighted enough to recognise that something like this has to be done. Whilst it might be difficult for a while and prices might be low, because of the cutback in production in the sugar producing countries of the world eventually prices will reach stability at a level that will be reasonably profitable to the industry. It is good to know that we in Australia are a part of this Agreement and that the Government is a signatory to it. We can hope only that it will bring about the results that were hoped for when the Agreement was formulated. Each and every one of us who knows the industry must recognise that it is of great value to this country to have a sound, solid, stable sugar industry. 
In my own State of Queensland, sugar cane is grown in the coastal regions from around Bundaberg, Childers and other regions to the south to areas north of Cairns. My own area of Mackay is the largest sugar producing centre in Australia, and I know just what the industry means to the people in these communities. I believe that it has been responsible for one of the best decentralised areas of population in this country. The fact that the sugar industry is strung out along the coast has meant the establishment of populated areas of reasonable size, and as a result Queensland is a very good decentralised State. The sugar industry is one of which Australians can be proud. To those people like my colleagues from Victoria who imagine that all the brains are in the south I say that we have brains and ability in Queensland. As I said to one of our Victorian senators today when he interjected, people in Victoria live in such foggy country that it is hard for them to see very far, but in Queensland we have such bright sunshine that we can see much further ahead. 
The sugar industry in Queensland has been one of stability and one which has achieved great progress and development for the State of Queensland. What is more, it has been of great value to the other industrial States because of the benefits it has brought to industry in those States. The Australian sugar industry is one of which, as I said before, we as Australians can be truly proud. It is a very scientific industry, so much so that it is looked upon as possibly the most efficient sugar industry in the world. It is one of the top industries in efficiency, and it is possibly one of the most efficient. That situation has been brought about over a period of years by the application of science and investigation in developing the industry to the highest standards. Research goes on continuously in the experimental stations into new types of sugar cane which produce more sugar and therefore larger tonnages per acre. 
The matter of scientific milling has also received some concentrated attention. Over a period of years milling has developed tremendously. Wherever one goes one finds all types of modern methods of milling in application. Some years ago the bulk handling of sugar on the waterfront was introduced. That too was a very big advancement in the handling of the product of this industry. It did away with the necessity to put the sugar in bags and so on. At whatever aspect of the sugar industry one looks, one finds that it is an industry of which we can be proud because of its scientific developments which have taken place on the soundest possible lines. As I said before, as a consequence, we have in this country an industry which is so efficient that it is equal, if not superior, to the sugar industries of any country in the world. 
Therefore I feel that anything we can do to stabilise our sugar industry will be to the advantage of Australia generally. We have to remember that our exports of sugar help to bring in overseas credits. It is States such as Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania which are earning surpluses in overseas credits which help to prevent the other States from going on the rocks financially. These sorts of things should be recognised. I think the people of the other States should realise what the sugar industry is doing for Australia and for them. 
During the war years the people of this country were able to buy sugar more cheaply than were the people in any other country because of the price at which we were able to produce sugar in Australia. During the time of the great fluctuations in world prices, which in 1 974 reached more than $1,000 a ton, the people of Australia had access to possibly the cheapest sugar in the world because of the price that was fixed in Australia. There is a tendency for people and for governments to forget these things. Therefore I think it is up to this Government to get a bit of a move on and to recognise that this industry needs consideration in the setting of sugar prices. It is amazing how this Government staggers along and fails to recognise the great part that this industry has played in giving people cheap sugar and in helping to develop this country, as well as all the great things it has done for the people of this country. 
Whilst there are difficulties ahead, 1 believe that the signing of this Agreement by Australia and the creation of the International Sugar Agreement will in the long run- it might take two or three years to reach real stability- be of great benefit to Australia. Because of lower sugar production throughout the world and the possibility of increasing demand, the international situation might change completely, in which case we will be looking at a sugar industry which is much more prosperous than it is at the moment. Because of the great worth that that industry is to this country, I sincerely hope that the Agreement will help stabilise the industry and to ensure that it continues to be the great industry that it has been over the years. I support the legislation. 
They are not formal. I seek leave to make a statement and to move a motion in relation to the notices of motion standing in my name. 
Leave granted. 
All of the notices of motion standing in my name relate to matters which are under consideration by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 1 relates to certain Defence Force financial regulations which the Committee considers confer an undue degree of discretion upon the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in connection with payment of allowances. The Minister for Defence, in correspondence with the Committee, has agreed to further consider the regulations, and accordingly at the end of my statement I will be moving that this notice of motion be postponed. 
Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 2 relates to certain Defence Force (Salaries) Regulations which the Committee regards as unfairly discriminating between individuals and setting a dangerous principle of remuneration. In its 60th report, presented to the Senate a month ago, the Committee recommended the disallowance of these regulations. At the end of my statement 1 intend to postpone this notice of motion, but I would ask  Senator Withers,  the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the notice of motion must be disposed of within three sitting days after today. I understand that notice of a motion to disallow the regulations has also been given in another place. 
Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 3 relates to an Australian Capital Territory ordinance which provided that where witnesses are called before a board of inquiry, witnesses called by the Commonwealth would have their fees and expenses paid by the Commonwealth, but witnesses called by any other person would have their fees and expenses paid by that person. The 
Committee considered that this provision is unfairly discriminatory. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has agreed to amend the ordinance so that the board may make the Commonwealth liable for the fees and expenses of witnesses where it considers that the calling of those witnesses was reasonable. In view of this undertaking by the Minister, I intend to withdraw this notice of motion at the end of my statement. 
General Business Notice of Motion No. 1 1 relates to an Australian National Railways by-law which regulates the conduct of persons for the purposes of the railways. The Committee regarded a number of provisions in this by-law as unduly interfering with individual rights and liberties. In particular, there were clauses making persons liable for absolute offences where the defence of reasonable excuse clearly should have been provided, exempting the Commission from legal liability in certain circumstances, and placing the onus of proof upon the accused in criminal prosecutions. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has given the Committee a firm undertaking that the by-law will be amended to meet the objections of the Committee. The Committee is of the opinion that the amendments which the Minister has promised to make will properly safeguard the rights and liberties of individuals. I therefore intend to withdraw this notice of motion. 

 Mr President, in accordance with the terms of my statement I withdraw Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 3 and General Business Notice of Motion No. 1 1, and I move: 
That Business of the Senate Notices of Motion Nos 1 and 2 be postponed until two sitting days after today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As a Queensland senator, I think that on this occasion I should speak some words  of  condolence to Dame Pattie Menzies and the other members  of  Sir Robert's  family. Like  Senator Wright,  I came into office after the 1949 general election when  Sir Robert  was swept back into office as Prime Minister  of  this country. To me he appeared to be an outstanding personality. He had that easiness  of  speaking which made him a truly great speaker. But he was not an orator, as so many people say. In fact when speaking to me he said that he did  not  like people referring to him as an orator because he was not; he did not orate: He spoke in the simplest, easiest and most beautiful language in which one could speak. This is one of the facts that lots of people do not recognise: Speech is a means of communication and, if people do not understand the words one uses, one does not communicate. 

 Sir Robert had the knack of communicating completely with people. I know that when he made a public address, whether it be from the platform or through the radio or whatever other medium it might be, wherever one went people always remarked on the wonderful speech he had made. I think that everybody on both sides of the House, of all parties, recognises this quality in him. I shall relate a story about this which I found rather interesting. 
I was in charge of a tour that took in the Queensland areas of Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville, Cairns and the Atherton Tableland. The Mayor of the City of Townsville was staging a civic luncheon in honour of  Sir Robert.  I can remember telling  Sir Robert  while he and Dame Pattie and I were waiting in a small room: 'Well,  Mr Prime  Minister, you will be required to make a speech at this function'. To my surprise, he said: 'I'm not going to make a speech'. I said: But it will be necessary for you to make a speech'. He said: 'It's all right for you; you can get up and talk at any time, but not me; it worries the life out of me to make a speech'. I said to him: 'What nonsense'. But Dame Pattie said: That's right,  Senator. He  can't eat a meal before his speech because of his concern about it'. 
I said to  Sir Robert:  'Why don't you realise that every time you speak you give people such great pleasure? Your going in there now to make a speech will give those people great pleasure, which in turn will give you great happiness?' So in he went with Dame Pattie and myself. He made that speech- an impromptu speech, apparently- and almost brought the place down with roars of laughter and applause. It was a terrific success. I remember that he said to me afterwards: 'I'm glad you pushed me into that. I wouldn't have got a reception like that in my own city of Melbourne'. That was a very pleasant occasion and it was a wonderful trip. I found everywhere that people liked him and enjoyed what he said to them. He went over remarkably well. 
There was another occasion when circumstances were not so happy. I had a big difference of opinion with him and with his Treasurer at the time they were introducing sales tax on cars. Over the years, people have said that it was their belief that anybody could have been a good 
Prime Minister during that period. That was not the case because I can remember a Budget that was termed the Horror Budget.  Sir Robert  was associated with a very able Treasurer in the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. As a pair, they worked remarkably well together. There was a unity in the parties. I think that spoke very well for the leadership and the co-operation of  Sir Arthur  Fadden. After  Sir Arthur  Fadden had retired the late  Mr Harold  Holt became the Treasurer. It was at that time that an increase in car sales tax was brought about. In those days, the car manufacturing business in Australia was developing and that was a way in which to receive revenue. 
I remember that to the amazement of everyone in the Party, except my colleague  Senator Wright,  I opposed that measure.  Senator Wright  was the only other honourable senator- as far as I can remember- who supported me. We had a real fight in the Party over that matter. We still fought on until it came to a vote in the Senate. But before coming to a vote in the Senate I remember that  Sir Robert  Menzies asked  Senator Wright  and me to see him, which we did. He was a man of position. He was not only the leader of the Government but also the leader of the Liberal Party to which both  Senator Wright  and I belong, and I think it is interesting for people to know that when he spoke to us he put his case. At the end, he said: 'That is my case. I hope you will be able to see the points that I have brought forward. ' 
The point I bring before the chamber is that he did not try to bully us. He did not try to dictate to us. He put his arguments and he left it for us to decide. So, we made our decision and we voted against that tax. It was a very big issue. I always remember that when we came into his office, he said: 'We have put a policy before the people. I hope you will recognise that it has gone before the people and I hope that you will vote for the various aspects of the policy.' But he said: 'You may feel very strongly on some particular issue. You may feel that, although you went to the elections with us, you were not consulted on some particular aspect. If you feel so strongly about a matter then you should let your conscience rule. ' In all other matters, in true Liberal Party fashion, he said: 'On all other matters that have not been put to the people you should let your conscience rule.' The advice that he gave us after the 1949 election is advice upon which I have always acted. 
He was a man of great stature, both mentally and from the aspect of education. The thing that amazed me was that he never gave the people the impression that he was above them. When he spoke to them, he spoke with them. As a consequence, he was understood. I believe he was recognised as someone that the average person in the street understood easily. They recognised his greatness because of his simplicity and understanding. People talk nonsense at times and, when referring to great men, quite often they say: 'Of course, he was a man of those days; he would not be a man of today. ' My own assessment of  Sir Robert  Menzies is that whatever day in which he had operated, he had the flexibility of mind and the ability to gauge what was required at a particular time. If he were in his prime today I believe that he would still be a great Prime Minister. 
I offer my very sincere sympathy to Dame Pattie Menzies, a gracious person who was a very important part of his life as Prime Minister. I express my deep and sincere sympathy to her and other members of her family. I believe that the name  Sir Robert  made in the Parliament of this country as a member and as Prime Minister will endure and be remembered throughout history. He will be remembered as a truly great Prime Minister. In my opinion he was the best Prime Minister I have seen in this Parliament since I became a member of the Senate in 1 949. My comments are a true expression of what I believe and what I feel the people of Australia generally believe. I therefore support the motion of condolence moved in this chamber. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: objection to the metric system and requests the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
by leaveThe two notices of motion, standing in my name under Business of the Senate, for the disallowance of certain regulations were given as a result of inquiries by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The first notice of motion relates to some naval financial and air force regulations which conferred upon the Minister for Defence a discretion to determine certain allowances of members of the Defence Force. The Committee considered that the discretionary power conferred upon the Minister by the regulations was excessive. I have now received from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  a letter in which he gives an undertaking that he will amend the regulations so as to remove the Minister's discretion and to make the operation of the regulations objective. 
The second notice of motion relates to an amendment of the Defence Force (Salaries) Regulations. In its sixtieth report, presented to the Senate on 13 April, the Committee recommended the disallowance of this amendment on the ground that it had the effect of unfairly discriminating between individuals, and thereby trespassed unduly on individual rights. I have now received from the Minister for Defence a letter in which he gives an undertaking that he will repeal this amendment of the regulations. I thank the Minister for Defence for acceding to the Committee 's views in these two matters.  His  co-operation is appreciated by the Committee. In view of the undertakings given by the Minister, I now withdraw Business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 1 and 2 standing in my name. 
I was interested in being reminded of something I said when in Opposition. I listened also to what was said by the previous  speaker  about people changing their minds. I am now serving my twenty-ninth year in this chamber. My term expires at the end of next month and possibly my active parliamentary work will terminate within another two weeks. I hope that it can be said sincerely that I have been consistent while I have been in this Parliament and that I have not been afraid to express an opposite view to the view of my party when in government or in opposition. I believe that if parliamentarians- in particular, honourable senators- generally followed that course the public would have a higher estimation of us as parliamentarians. 
One of the things which has always amazed me is how parliamentarians will say one thing when they are in government or in opposition but when their position is reversed they suddenly change their minds. This is probably one of the aspects which lowers public opinion of parliamentarians. Therefore, I have no hesitation in standing by what I say. I am interested in the changes of mind which have taken place. The previous  speaker, Senator McLaren,  talked about a change of mind. The Labor Government raced in and gave the okay for uranium mining. I believe that if that was the right course to follow then it is the right course to follow now. I have not seen any evidence which made the Australian Labor Party change its mind on that issue. In fact if the Labor Government, as a responsible government, felt that there was any doubt on this issue it should have gone into the matter very thoroughly before it made its decision. 
I am in favour of uranium mining. I believe that the energy requirements of this world will be such that something will have to be done to meet the situation. I therefore have no hesitation in saying that I am in favour of uranium mining. Despite that, I am not in favour of the legislation which is before us- the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill- being passed through the Parliament. I have certain fears from a legislative point of view. It has been mentioned that we are a States' House.  Senator Button  reminded me that on a previous occasion I said that we come here as representatives of the States. I believe that if we are to do our job poperly we must pay some recognition to what our State governments think with respect to a particular matter. The Government of my own State- has doubts about some aspects of this legislation, lt feels that more consultation should have been carried out with the States. Apparently some of the other States think so, too. If my State feels very strongly on this issue- I feel that there are some doubts as far as the other States are concerned- I believe that more time should be provided for consideration and consultation between the Federal Government and the State Governments. Therefore, 1 think that further consideration should be given to the legislation. 
It is no use our saying that the Federal Government would be responsible in its actions towards the States. I cannot say that I would trust this Government or a Labor Government in that respect. At times we have seen evidence of governments of both political persuasions trying to use strong measures over State governments. I recall the threat which was made very recently by this Federal Government to the Queensland Government about the Aurukun and Mornington Island missions. This Federal Government threatened to walk in and take certain action. Federal governments- the people in Canberraalways think that they can run things so much better than anyone else. Yet a few nights ago we heard a woman from Darwin saying that the Aborigines for whom the Federal Government was responsible lived under disgraceful conditions and that their conditions were not nearly as good as those of the Aborigines in Queensland. Despite that we have heard about this Federal Government threatening to walk in and take over from a State government. While that attitude dominates the thinking of the Federal Government, if the State governments feels that more consideration should be given to this legislation, I say that more consideration should be given to it. That is one aspect of the way I feel about this legislation. 
I did not intend to speak for as long as this, but I shall not speak for much longer. We have had two debates on this legislation. I think they have been debates of which the Senate can be well proud.  Senator Wright  made a magnificent speech in this debate. It indicated his great mind. In my estimation,  Senator Wright  has been a wonderful attribute to the Senate for almost 29 years.  His  depth of thought has been of tremendous value to the Senate, to this nation and to me personally. The information that he gave us on that occasion was such that we should be truly proud that we have a senator of his quality. 
Tonight I listened with great interest to the remarks of  Senator Missen  on the same subject and felt that he brought forth some most interesting aspect of this legislation. I therefore thank him for an interesting and thoughtful contribution. Those two speeches have put into my mind a further fear so far as this legislation is concerned. I am in my twenty-ninth year as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. That is said to be possibly an all-time record for service on one parliamentary committee. Also, I am in my twenty-second year as  Chairman  of the Committee. I am only a layman but have been very fortunate in the type of legal and other experts who have served on that Committee. I have in mind  Senator Wright, Senator Missen, Senator Button,  who spoke tonight, and other honourable senators from both sides. The calibre of honourable senators who have served on the Committee has been high. 
Service on the Committee has made me recognise, with Senators Wright and Missen, that there is something missing from this legislation; that there is too much that is to be filled in by codes- it is difficult to contemplate just how dangerous or important they might be- and too much to be filled in by way of regulations. One of the characteristics of our Committee has been that it watches these matters. Knowing the deep scrutiny that it has given to regulations, and to protecting rights and liberties, the points that have been brought out by Senators Wright and Missen have left me with the feeling that a lot more should be put into this legislation than one now finds there. It is easy to say that a government would not overstep the mark, but the members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee know from experience that time after time when the Committee has bottle-necked attempts to do certain things with regulations-- 
Yes- we find that executive officers or staff try to get around it by using another outlet as a source for their power. This is what happens. If we are to pass legislation of this character, leaving so much of it unfilled, in the words of  Senator Wright  like an egg shell, we will be giving unprecedented power to the Executive and the Public Service to use regulations or other aspects which, as Senators Wright and Missen said, we may not be able to control. 
Under the circumstances, the legislation before us needs a good deal of re-study. I make it clear that, whilst I am strongly in favour of the mining of uranium, I cannot let the decision to proceed be made with legislation of this character. Consequently, I will support the amendment proposed by the Opposition, thereby indicating to  Senator Button  and others that consistency is a very good thing, hopeful that it will also mark the actions of the Opposition when it seems to be a good thing for legislation and for this country. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is concerned with the matter of the Queensland Government dismissing the Aurukun Aboriginal Council. Is the Minister aware of the fact that any council in Queensland is subject to dismissal by the State Government? Is the Minister aware that only recently the Gold Coast City Council in Queensland was dismissed and that some years ago the Mackay City Council was dismissed? 
I was not mayor. The honourable senator should not talk to me, otherwise he will get it in the neck. Why is it considered to be appropriate that the people on the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves should be treated differently from people on other councils in the rest of Queensland? Do these people not belong to the one country and to the one State? Why should preferential treatment be given to certain people and not to other people who comprise the major element of this country? 
I have an inquiry of the Minister. I cannot see any reference to the information I am seeking in the Bill. Being a bachelor, this matter is of importance to me. If a senator or member of parliament retires and then he or she marries and then passes away, would the widow or widower receive any retiring allowance, or does the retiring allowance apply only to people who are married before they retire from parliament? 
-Does that mean that if a person got married a month before retiring his widow would get a retiring allowance if something happened to him? Does that mean that the 5-year period would not apply? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs the following question: When is the Government going to define clearly who is an Aborigine? Is it not a fact that at the present time anybody who claims to be an Aborigine is considered to be an Aborigine? 
Well, when is the Government going to define who is an Aborigine, particularly in view of the fact that people classified as Aborigines receive so many concessions that this opens up for people the opportunity to obtain concessions to which they are not entitled? 
-In regard to this item of appropriation I should like to say that it amazes me that the Government takes the attitude that the defendants - 
The item relating to the appropriation of money to meet the legal costs of the defendants- the ex-Ministers. It amazes me that the Government has decided to pay the costs of the defendants but not of the plaintiff. The position is that this matter was of very grave concern to this Parliament and to the nation generally. I do not for one moment want to say that these people are guilty. I am not prejudging the case. In my opinion there are certain people there who would not be guilty. But the matter has been brought forward in this consideration and I recall that it was of very great moment to this Parliament and to those of us on this side of the chamber when we were in Opposition. What concerns me is that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  apparently was greatly interested in this matter when we were in Opposition but now when we are in office he has changed his attitude. It worries me that this was a matter of concern to the present Prime Minister when we were in Opposition but once we gained office the matter was of no further interest. 
I take the view that if this was a matter of great moment it should be the aim of the Government to have the whole matter clarified- cleaned up. I think the Government is acting very unwisely in taking a decision to pay the costs of the defendants but not the costs of the plaintiff. It may be that it will be shown that Sankey is doing a job for the country, so why should he not get support? I put it that both sides should be given assistance. As I said, I am not prejudging anybody but I believe the Government should clarify the position. This Government should not be looked upon as a party that feasted upon this incident when it suited it in Opposition but now that it is in office it is no longer interested. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Yesterday I asked him a question seeking clarification of the term 'Aboriginal'. The reply was that an Aboriginal is a person of Aboriginal descent who identifies himself as an Aboriginal and is accepted as such by the community with which he is associated. How does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs determine a person's association in a community? Under what terms does it determine a person's classification as an Aboriginal? Is it not within the knowledge of the Minister that many persons of part Indian or negro descent and people who are three-quarters or seven-eighths white are parading as Aborigines? Does this not indicate that many people are sponging on the special situation which should have particular application to the full-blood Aboriginal? Is the Minister aware that a high-ranking official in the Liberal Party of north Queensland informed me of the case of a man whose skin was whiter than his who talked about building - 
I present the sixty first report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to legislation considered by the Committee during this period of sittings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In doing so I point out that after almost  29  years of service on this Committee and after  22  years as  Chairman  of the Committee, I am presenting my last report on behalf of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. At the time I joined the Committee, not being a legal man it did not seem to have any great importance. It was not the type of committee I would have chosen on which to sit. I said to the late  Senator Sir John  Spicer: 'What is this committee you are putting me on?' He replied: 'I am surprised. I thought we were paying you a compliment by putting you on that committee.' I then began to think that it was a committee of some importance. As consequence I took a much keener interest as a member of it. 
Over the years the Committee has worked very hard. It got right to the bone of the matters it has dealt with. There were many objections from the Government as it was then, of which I was a supporter. In those days when the Committee moved for a disallowance of a regulation we struck strong opposition from our Ministers. It is to the credit of the Senate that the decision of the Committee always prevailed. At the time we owed a lot to the then Opposition for standing with us. As a consequence Ministers were beaten on the vote. I told the Leader of the Government at the time that because he was always getting beaten he should decide to give way. He did so. Now there is not nearly so much commotion or publicity when the Committee wants to move for the disallowance of a regulation. 
More importantly, the work of the Committee has been recognised by Ministers as being of such a standard that nearly always when it takes a stand on a regulation the Minister concerned seems to recognise the merit of its viewpoint. The regulation is either altered or withdrawn. We do not have the tussles and fights we had in previous days. As I look back over the years I think the Senate has become duly proud of the Committee because of the standard of its work. It is felt in many quarters that the excellent performance of the Committee has developed the committee system in the Senate with the result that today we have an extensive committee system which is doing a very good job. That indicates the justification for the existence of the Committee. It has built a much better committee system than that which prevailed in previous days. 
A great deal of credit belongs to the members of the Committee generally and not to me as 

 Chairman. The Committee has had some outstanding members. During the 22 years I have been  Chairman  of the Committee I have noticed that when a new government has been formed a number of Ministers from this chamber were senators who served on this Committee. Their choice as Ministers is an indication of their quality. Some very good senators have served on the Committee. I believe that each and every one of the members of the Committee has given very conscientious service. The Committee meets regularly, nearly every Thursday at 9 a.m. The attendance is generally very good. One outstanding member of the Committee was  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. I pay great tribute to him. The Committee and the Senate owe a great deal to him for his work on the Committee.  His  investigating mind and great legal knowledge made him a valuable member. 
One of the biggest fights we had was in relation to the import licensing legislation. I recall the Pressmen coming to my office and asking whether it was correct that the Minister had given way. At midnight there was no word from  Sir John  McEwen, as he was known later, of anybody giving way. It was not until about 2 a.m. that I knew what was happening. We used to sit ridiculous hours in those days. I think I was one who was responsible for helping to knock off that ridiculous system. At about 2 o'clock in the morning I got word to say that the Minister,  Sir John  McEwen, had given way to the Committee. The Committee would not allow the regulations to stand unless an appeals board was established. There was no right of appeal, and the Committee was very strong on that. The Committee said that it would let the regulations stand provided the Government set up an appeals board comprising two businessmen and only one public servant. The matter really came to the notice of the Committee because of the investigating mind of  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. Unfortunately he was very busily engaged on the Kemp-Orr case which was a sensational case at the time, and of course it was my job as  Chairman  to do the fighting while he was overseas. But it was his idea and that is how the matter was brought forward. 
Simply to illustrate that it pays for committees and honourable senators to stand up for something in which they believe, I remember 12 months after that the late  Sir Denham  Henty, who was the Minister for Customs and Trade, announced in this chamber that the Government was bringing in legislation to establish an appeals board relating to customs based on the very successful appeals board that was established under the import licensing legislation. Of course he took the credit. He referred to the appeals board 'which we, the Government, established'. But in fact Reg Wright, in moving for the disallowance of the regulations, and the Committee, in fighting for this provision, were responsible for the establishment of that appeals board. People who wanted to import things had no right of appeal. Our action was considered by the business world to be exceptionally favourable, and it was a decision for which the people were very grateful. That illustration shows how people with expert knowledge, enthusiasm and devotion to service can get together on these committees and do things that even Ministers may not recognise the need for at the time. I wanted to pay that tribute to  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright because he has been a member of that Committee for about 30 years- roughly the same period I have been on it- with the exception of the time when he was a Minister. I am one who is delighted to see that he has been honoured for the great service that he has rendered to this nation and to his State of Tasmania. 
Other members of this Committee have also stood out. The late  Senator Greenwood  with his legal knowledge was a very valuable member of the Committee. I am sure that his loss to this chamber and to the nation was a very severe one. There has been a high standard amongst the parliamentarians on this Committee. From the Opposition side the late  Senator Cohen,  a man with very fine legal attainments, served on the Committee. Former  Senator Everett  from Tasmania was another legal man from the Labor side who served on the Committee. Probably in earlier days he had an association with  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright in the legal world. 
The Committee has also been served very well by some laymen. Some of the laymen who have served on the Committee have struck me as being people who have had the mental capacity to be able to come to very sensible decisions on matters. If I may, I will mention  Senator Cavanagh  who has been a member of the Committee for quite a while. He left the Committee while he was a Minister.  Senator Cavanagh  has always impressed me with the analytical way in which he looks at regulations. He has impressed me to such an extent that I have always believed that if he had taken up legal studies he would have made a very good lawyer. 1 think he proved a very valuable member of the Committee. Sitting opposite me at the moment is  Senator Brown  who was a member of this Committee for quite some time. He also was a layman member of the Committee and he always gave me the impression that he would come down with the right decision. It is something that some people have. Both those laymen were excellent members on that Committee. I was very sorry to see  Senator Brown  leave the Committee. 

 Senator Devitt who was the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee and who, for the years while the Labor Government was in office, was the  Chairman  of the Committee was devoted to the work of the Committee. While I was  Chairman  of the Committee I found him a very loyal  Deputy Chairman  and also when he took on the chairmanship of the Committee I was happy to serve under him as the  Deputy Chairman.  I considered him to be a very fine  Chairman  indeed. Amongst the laymen members on the Committee from the National Country Party was former  Senator Ellis  Lawrie. He was a rural man and one may think that probably committees involved with legal aspects would not be attractive to that sort of a person. But I found that he also was a person who had a very good analytical mind. The way in which he would think things out and come to a conclusion was surprising. I thought he was a very valuable member of the Committee. 
Some of the other more recent legal members on the Committee whom I recall include  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator James  McClelland. Unfortunately we did not have them on the Committee for many years, but during the period they were with the Committee they served it well. They were people who had investigating minds because of their legal training. From the National Country Party the Committee also had as members  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who served for quite a while, and  Senator Webster,  who is now the Minister for Science. Both those men have served as Ministers and as Leader of the National Country Party in this chamber. They both gave excellent service to the Committee. 
When I look back at those members of the Committee- and  Senator Cavanagh  is still with the Committee- I can see that we have had real quality on the Committee. The work of the Committee has been carried out in a non-political way. I think  Senator Cavanagh  gave me great credit for the fact that I would never allow political angles to be brought into the deliberations of this Committee. Of course as soon as a political angle is brought into the deliberations of this Committee, it will be finished. This Committee has won an international reputation. I remember some years ago being told that India formed a committee similar to our committee because of what that country knew about the work of our Committee. New South Wales also has a similar committee, but I cannot remember when it was formed. I know that Victoria and Queensland both formed their committees as a result of the work of this Committee. As has been mentioned, the famous British House of Commons committee wrote to me as  Chairman  of my Committee and asked me to set out a complete charter of the work that it should do, which was a marvellous tribute because the House of Commons is the mother of all parliaments. That is where it all started, and for the House of Commons to write to us was a wonderful tribute. The Committee members and I got together. We laid down a charter and I understand that many of our suggestions were accepted. The Committee has achieved an excellent standard of work because it has operated on a parliamentary basis, not on a party political basis. It has attained much success. 
I believe that today the Committee is in very good hands. Amongst the present members is the Opposition Whip,  Senator Georges,  who is just filling in. If I might be permitted to say so,  Senator Georges  has in my opinion come to some very good decisions. Amongst those who have served on this Committee is our own Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  He served on the Committee for several years. The quality of the people who have served on the Committee could not have been too bad. In fact, it must have been very high because  Senator Withers  is now the Leader of the Government in the Senate and also the Minister for Administrative Services. 
I do not want to go into detail in respect of the present members of the Committee but I am very pleased to see that  Senator Missen,  a legal person, is on the Committee because he also is a man with an investigating mind. I believe that as a result of his actions and work on the Committee, he will remain a very valuable member of the Committee. I hope in view of the changes that are taking place in the membership of this chamber, that some of the senators who have legal knowledge and also those who are laymen will combine their talents to make this a very good and continuing Committee. It would be a shame to see the present high standard of this Committee fall in any way. I make a plea to the Senate to ensure that it appoints to this Committee people who will do the job with the highest parliamentary standards. 
I remember when I first became the  Chairman  I spoke to the late Senate  Sir Neil  O'sullivan and suggested that we might have so and so on the 
Committee. I remember going to former  Senator McKenna  on the Labor side who was a legal man and a very fine parliamentarian and talking to him in the same vein. I believe that as a result of those representations, we did get a high standard of membership of the Committee. I have talked about the work of the Committee and also the work that has been done by very prominent members of the Committee in helping it to carry out its great responsibilities. 
We were very fortunate with the various personnel who served as secretaries. The first Secretary I can remember is the famous Senate expert,  Mr Jim  Odgers, who is now  Clerk  of the Senate. I think everybody acknowledges that if ever a person were devoted to the Senate it is  Mr Jim  Odgers.  Mr Odgers'  book  Australian Senate Practice  is proof that he is an absolute expert on the work of this chamber. He was Secretary to the Committee when I first became a member of it.  Mr Roy  Bullock, who was with us for some years, was the next Secretary. He proved to be a very fine secretary. He had a nice demeanour, was very helpful and was always keen on the Committee's work. The next Secretary was  Mr Cumming  Thom, who is probably the longest serving secretary of the Committee. He was with us for quite a number of years.  Mr Cumming  Thom, like the two previous secretaries, took a great interest in our work. In the period in which he was with us we were in very good hands. 
After  Mr Cumming  Thom was transferred to another position,  Mr Bert  Nicholls took over as Secretary and served us for a long period.  Mr Nicholls  also proved a very keen member of the secretariat. He did not serve in times which were as turbulent as previous years. During those years he was keenly devoted to the Committee.  His  work was always considered to be excellent. At present the Secretary is  Mr Harry  Evans, a young Senate officer. He has a very keen mind and helps the Committee to a great extent by explaining to those of us who are laymen what certain things mean. I appreciate very much the service by  Mr Evans  to the Committee and to myself as  Chairman,  just as I appreciate the help that all the other secretaries gave to me during my period as  Chairman.  I feel that the Committee is very fortunate and well placed to proceed with its excellent work while it is in the hands of  Mr Harry  Evans. 
I believe that the Senate can be very proud of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. I hope it will permeate through the minds of everyone here that the work of the Committee should not be allowed to drop in any shape or form. It is a vigilant committee which looks at regulations and ordinances to see that the rights and liberties of people are not unduly trespassed upon and ensures that what should be legislation does not come under the cover of regulations and ordinances. A couple of other aspects are considered, but regulations and ordinances are the two important aspects. For the benefit of the people of this country and for the status of the Senate, I feel that the Senate should make sure that the standard of the Regulations Committee does not fall. If anything, it should increase. It should remain a committee of which the Senate and the nation can be justly proud. 
I take the opportunity of thanking the Senate for giving me the opportunity to serve on this Committee. It has been a great experience. As a layman, probably not equipped on the legal side, I feel that I am all the richer in my mind for having served on the Committee. In doing so, I hope that I have given the Senate and the nation the best that I can give. I thank the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether it is not a fact that housing loans are given by the Commonwealth Government to people who profess to be Aborigines, some of whom probably have hardly a blush of Aboriginal colour in them. 
That is a fact. Is it not a fact that they are given housing loans on which they pay interest as low as 2 per cent and also that they are given loans to purchase businesses at 5 per cent interest? Will the Government consider extending those very low interest rates to other Australians, particularly to our young people who are building homes? Would this not be fair in view of the fact that those other Australians pay for these subsidies through taxation to the Commonwealth Government. Would it not also stimulate the building industry, creating more employment and more work generally? Would it not also help to eliminate the racist policy of this Government? 
I desire just to say a few words on this - 
On these amendments. 
I oppose the Government's bringing in of legislation of this character, which involves retrospectivity, using the excuse that this is legitimate action. We hear some rather odd arguments put up by people when they want to wriggle and twist and then they want to make the Liberal Party platform look like a piece of elastic, as  Senator Messner  did. 

 - Senator Messner said, on the one hand, that the Liberal Party, according to its platform, was opposed to retrospective legislation but, on the other hand, that it is in favour of tax equity. How can tax equity ever become involved with retrospectivity? I think that that is a rather unusual combination. 
Actors Equity might be in your line,  Senator Messner.  If you are a member of Actors Equity, as  Senator Bonner  says, that probably accounts for your twisting and turning in respect of this platform, or stage, if you prefer. The High Court of Australia said in 1974 that Curran-type schemes are legal, but to hear people talk now, one would think that such practices are the worst possible criminal offence. 
Just immoral? I suppose we should be careful how we as members of" parliament address our remarks- morally or immorally. If the High Court says that something is legal how can we say that these people, who act within the legal framework, are the greatest bunch of so-and-sos? I believe- and I think that every sensible, thinking person would agree with me- that it is only right that people should be taxed fairly and that people should meet their tax obligations. But the High Court has said that Curran-type schemes are legal. If the Government wants to remedy the situation why does it not introduce legislation to operate from today or from whenever it is proclaimed? The introduction of retrospective legislation makes me wonder about the sincerity of the Government and whether the people of Australia can trust the word of this Government. Nothing belittles a government more than if its word cannot be trusted. I believe that there are many people in Australia who can be justified in thinking that there is no certainty in the actions of this Government and that if it can introduce retrospectivity in this case, in what other case can it introduce retrospectivity? 
I have been a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances for a very long time. Members of that Committee have discussed that aspect of retrospectivity. We have opposed its application wherever possible and we have tried to shorten the period as much as possible. Retrospectivity is something that I do not like. I personally think that this Government should be ashamed of itself for bringing in this bush-ranging type of legislation which goes back so far. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: In view of the request from the women's section of the National Party of Australia, Far Northern Division of Queensland, for an investigation into the use of funds supplied to Aboriginals, has any step been taken towards meeting the request because of the apparent misuse of the money and also the quite prevalent misconduct as a result of such misuse? The suggestion has been made that the handouts by the Commonwealth Government should not be on a racial basis but on a needs basis. Would this not eliminate the racial discrimination policy of this Government, like that of the Whitlam Government? 
-I express my sincere appreciation for the remarks that have been passed this evening by various senators. As one who started in a humble way, I owe my direction towards thinking of local affairs to a wonderful mother. Starting in such a humble way, I was encouraged by her to fight my way up to a much better position. My early entry into government-type work was through the avenue of local government. I became an alderman and then I became the youngest mayor, I believe, in Australia at the time. I did not serve three years as mayor as mentioned by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I was mayor five times- 15 years altogether. I found it a very interesting avenue in which to work for the public. 
I have tried to think progressively for the future. I hope I have played my pan in that avenue. I brought the first town plan by a municipality in Australia into effect. This started town planning legislation. I also played a part in various other aspects, such as the Great Barrier Reef tourist industry and the industry of the area generally. Because of considerable pressure from various people I eventually gave way and stood for election to the Senate. It was not my desire to become a senator because it meant having to come to Canberra which is a cold area. The temperature does not appeal to me at all. Having been a senator for 28'A years, I thank the Liberal Party for having pressed me into the opportunity of serving the people of my State and this country. I hope I have served them well and that my time here has been of benefit to Australians and Queensland people in particular. 
I am a simple type of person. I did not have a good education. I left school when I was 12 years and 10 months old, to earn 10s a week to help my mother keep the home. Therefore I did not come in here professing to have any great educational qualifications. I have always believed that what the public appreciates in a public man is sincerity and honesty. I hope that during my time in public life I have been sincere and honest. I feel that people sense sincerity. I believe that my continued re-election over such a long period has shown that I have given sincerity and devotion. It has been a great experience for me. I have enjoyed it. I am sure that I am richer within myself for having had this experience. I have enjoyed the companionship of honourable senators, not just those on my side of the House but those on both sides of the chamber. I believe that there are very good senators in the chamber. They are not just confined to one side. To all those honourable senators I say: 'Thank you '. 
In addition I thank all those who worked so well with me in the very valuable work done in my years as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, including my 22 years as  Chairman.  Several of them are leaving this place tonight-  Senator 
Tom Drake-Brockman,  Senator Brown, Senator Sir Reginald  Wright, who has been a magnificent member of that Committee, and  Senator Devitt  who proved himself to be a very loyal  Deputy Chairman  and a very good  Chairman  during the term of the Labor Government. To those people I owe a great debt as does the nation and this Parliament. In addition, pretty well ever since I came into the Parliament I have served as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees. During that time I have had the honour on three occasions, in the absence of both the  President  and the  Deputy President,  of having been elected to the position of Acting  President  of the Senate. Having given of my best in my own simple way, I hope that I have done so in such a way that it has been with an understanding of what the people need. I feel that to know and understand the people at the grassroots level is the very best way to understand what to do for the people. When all is said and done, it is the people whom we represent. If we understand what the people need, we will be successful. 
In conclusion, I express my appreciation of the work of the officers of this Senate. I believe that  Mr Odgers, Mr Bullock  and the other six officers of the Senate are a dedicated team. They are very Senate-conscious and they do wonderful work for this chamber. I express to them my very sincere appreciation. As a number of them have served in the position of secretary to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I can say that they have done an excellent job. I have many very good friends around this Parliament building amongst members of the staff. I thank the ladies and gentlemen who work in this building for all the assistance and friendship they have given me. When I leave this chamber, I do so not only with thoughts of the people inside the chamber but also of those outside it who do such a wonderful job to help make this Parliament work. 
I leave the Parliament feeling that the Senate is a better place than when I came here. I was determined, because of what people said, to do my best to see that the Senate improved and I hope I have played my part in that improvement. I leave not with any deep regret but with a feeling of happiness that I have served here. As I leave I look forward to a future filled with other activities. I thank all honourable senators most sincerely. Before I sit down, I add that, whilst at times I have been much maligned and whilst I have not been one to seek publicity, nevertheless, I thank the media for the fair treatment it has always given me. May this Senate grow in stature and may it continue to grow in its importance in the affairs of this great country of ours. I am thankful for having had the opportunity to be able to serve in this excellent Senate chamber. I thank all honourable senators. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) (1.59 a.m.)- I wish to thank those who have spoken. I feel that a special measure of thanks is due to those who have listened. I include the officers of the Senate in my thanks. To my former leader who announced that I came to this earth as an uncommon man, I say: 
And fear not lest Existence closing your Account, and mine, should know the like no more; 
The Eternal Saki from that Bowl has pour'd Millions of Bubbles like us, and will pour. 
In the Parliament I have seen the pits and pinnacles of change for 29 years. It is as well to review, in just a few brief words the development when this chamber started off. We came in at a time when the situation was 33 to three. Let us reminisce for a moment. It was Arthur Calwell who instituted a decent system of election to the chamber on the basis of which a threshold development began. Over the 29 years some progress has been made. But I still think that the situation is best expressed in Kendall 's line: 
Humanity's drama of marvellous wrong. 
We have built up a committee system which is growing and has some purpose and prospect. But it will not mean anything if it does not correct the errors that come to us. Until we get out of the mists of this idea that we are restricted in money amendments the chamber will not achieve what it should. As I said in relation to another Bill tonight: We should be extricated from the Executive and have our parallel Executive. Of course honourable senators would not expect a man of such reconciliation purposes as myself to suggest any contention with the Executive but rather cooperation. We should have managers here. 1 can picture a Minister, as with two or three Bills tonight, having to explain his Bill in Committee and to argue his Bill. The managers would take part as Senate managers. But let us not argue the case for these things. I have done what I can for constitutional development. It is nice to remember that having been on the Constitutional Review Committee with a dissenting report in favour of maintenance of the Senate powers, in the only three referenda that have been put forward on this matter either by my side or by the Opposition, the majority of the Australian people, according to the Constitution, have not accepted the view that was put that the Senate power should be eroded. I shall be brief. I cannot forbear to mention though that Parliament is in a predicament. Democracy as Hailsham says is in a dilemma. In the old country the House of Commons has entered into a social contract with the biggest junta in the country and it is threatening us here. 

 Mr President, if you do not mind my saying so, in the law courts where I have practised now for over 50 years, I consider them to be not the agencies of justice but the opportunities for terror and ruin. We have a problem from the point of view of the law courts, the chief of which is to unify the jurisdiction as to which I see my friend the Attorney-General was in difference the other day with learned Chief Justices. That fundamental cause, unless achieved in the next 50 years, will give us a divided judiciary, as there is in America, to our great ruin. But everybody is waiting for me to speak about my parting from the Parliamentary Liberal Party last week. I have no apology to make nor do I have any pleasure. It was a situation that had to be met. It came to me with great regret after so many years. I take pleasure in looking back to 1949 when I took part in one of the greatest victories ever for our Party. It had great victories again in 1975 and 1977. I felt compelled to stand by my view on what was happening about a particular Bill. Notwithstanding that incident I stand here to acknowledge the cordiality and goodwill I have received from colleagues on the Government side and from all honourable senators on the Opposition side. I appreciate it immensely. I have a poem here but as  Senator McAuliffe  has gone I will not read it. It is  Breaking Point  by  Sir Paul  Hasluck. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Sometimes I want to cry: Oh, go to Hell. 
To Hell with pommy babblers, yawping fools and Melbourne Babus in strange clothes. 
Oh go to Hell. 
The whining loungers in the city pub; the cheapjack hustler in the train; the politician with his jowls of lard; the shrewd accountant with the knowing mask and fifty bankrupt farmers in the bag; the golf-course pirate and the Bondi shark; and civil servants hand in hand with god trotting to hidden ends down devious ways. 
Oh go to Hell. 
I do not cry. In the quiet corners of my mind I seek my native folk, my own, the quiet folk who wait and understand, men with keen wrinkled eyes, and slow thin smiles, men with firm hands. Men who will never cry, whose voices, hard as sunlight, firm as stone, and level as their own calm gaze across the sandplain to the farthest hill, speak the truth slowly like a stockwhip's coil, cracking with purpose. Men who know their land. 
I think of quiet folk remote in little homes, the patient people who believe in good, keeping the children clean, the socks well darned, a clear fire cheerful in the kitchen stove. The men who start out early, raise their eyes and see earth 's goodness in the coming light and think in kindness of their neighbour's hope. 
I think of tired men with calloused hands, lips black with sweat and red-rimmed patient eyes, crying for faith in treeless wastes of pain. 
I see the lonely ones, shy on the kerb, seeking for comrades and the friendly flesh of human kind. The multitude denied the simple joy of being one with all, feet moving, heart rejoicing, body merging with the crowd. The isolated soul. The shy, vain hoper in the brotherhood of man. The congregation of the lonely faith. 
I see the fearless men, the bold, the strong, who stand like poppet heads against the sky and raise their hands with purpose. 
Then I do not cry. 
I lift my head and sing. 
And Wordsworth wrote: 
Harsh judgments nor the thoughts of selfish men, nor greetings where no kindness is, nor all the dreary intercourse of daily life, shall ne'er prevail against us or destroy my cheerful faith, that all that we behold is full of blessings. 
When one can retain that faith after 29 years in the Senate, against the vicissitudes that one has had at the hands of government and opposition, that is the time when one will go. Disregard the quorums, quit and be free of them, to return to my valley of flowers and farming and the spirit of my fathers. 
