It has taken me 25 years to summon the courage to confront this occasion. As I moved down from the Senate to take part in these proceedings, I was fully conscious of the fact that this occasion was unique in the history of the Commonwealth of Australia. It has been called historic. I prefer to suggest that it is unique. It is unique because it will take its place in history as indicating that on this occasion, the single instance out of 3 double dissolutions, it has been necessary to resort to a joint meeting of the 2 Houses of Parliament to reach a decision on matters that divide the Parliament. It is in that sense that Whitlam has achieved the discreditable historic record of coming back, if Steele Hall will listen - 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin O'Byrne)-  Order!  Senator Wright  will refer to the honourable senator and the Prime Minister by their proper titles. 
If  Senator Steele  Hall will listen, the honourable Prime Minister, Edward Gough, God's great gift to the nation, brought this Parliament back from the double dissolution with a reduced majority in the House of Representatives and a minority in his support in the Senate. In that respect this is an historic occasion. The confusion and the limited confidence and credit which were given to the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  after a double dissolution have compelled the political problem to be resolved by a Joint Sitting. There are members who today and tonight have said that this is a matter for reflection. I think it is for us, as members of Parliament, to remind ourselves that we are passing a day or two in resolving constitutional conflicts while outside in the nation those who are working are doing so under great tribulation. There is great unrest. This afternoon  Senator Murphy  thought he was rebuking others but he was rebuking himself when he said that law and order is under challenge. A few moments ago a Government  speaker  meant to refer to the Australian Capital Territory- the A.C.T.- but, servilely and glibly, 'the ACTU' came off his tongue. These are the creatures of that element which tonight is fermenting anarchy outside. 
In a minute. This is the threshold behind which we consider the strength of our Constitution. But I suggest that members on the Government benches should not make any mistake. We do not guarantee a system of law and order unless we properly understand and implement the Constitution. Tonight interest rates for the great financiers are 12 per cent to 14 per cent. Last week, by a shabby, shameless act the outback residents of the Northern Territory were robbed of the petrol price equalisation scheme. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin 0'Byrne)-Order!  I think the honourable senator has had a fair amount of latitude. I remind him that the Bills before the Joint Sitting are the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill. I ask the honourable senator to confine himself to the subject matter of those Bills. 
-I have built the background behind which we now should consider these Bills. They are a great contribution from the greatest Foreign Minister we have had- the Honourable Edward Gough Whitlam! He claims to have a mandate for these Bills. When he went to the country he had a majority of 9 seats in the lower House. He is back with a 5-seat majority in that House, and two were gratuitously conferred on him. Even though  Senator Steele  Hall gives him some comfort today and tonight, he rules in another place only by the will of the said  Senator Steele  Hall. 
-The interjector who has just favoured us with another piece of his cacophony, the great joker of the Parliament, comes forward and says that the Senate has obstructed the Parliament. I would not go before the people in an election campaign and advocate a policy in opposition of Labor, and then because the Government got a miserable majority of 5 in one House and a minority of 2 in another, come here and desert the causes that people elected me to represent. While the Senate has constitutional authority and I have power to persuade in the country, I will use my vote in the Senate to establish the right of the people who voted for me. Let Government supporters call it obstruction or any other word beginning with 'o offensive or otherwise, the Senate has its role in this Parliament which the House of Representatives today is determined to forget. 
I listened this morning intently to the Prime Minister, when there was a squabble about the equal division of States into electorates so as to give either a gerrymander or a just election, complain in this chamber, the House of Representatives: 'As if the House of the people should be obstructed by the Senate'.  Senator Murphy-  a rainbow apparition I scarce can look uponcomes in to advocate this Bill, and for 40,000 electors in the Northern Territory and 10 1,000 in the Australian Capital Territory he says: 'These are people of Australia; ergo they are entitled to entrance into the Senate'. But that all forgets a just interpretation of the Constitution. God forgive the founding fathers that they forgot to anoint Gough Whitlam, the Prime Minister, as the Lord 's sole anointed law giver to this country and they said: 'He may need not only an Opposition in the House of Representatives but he may need a House of review- the Senate'. Otherwise we would have never had the nation of Australia at that time beset with all the hostile menaces of European aggrandisement in the Pacific. Read Rudyard Kipling in the basement. Defence demanded that we federate, and the prudence of the day compelled an agreement between the 6 States to federate on the terms of the Constitution. Law and order. The recital is that the people of the States agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal Commonwealth under the Constitution hereby established. 
It is a poor tribute to Robert Gordon Menzies to hear the Prime Minister quote him as the precedent on every occasion. The Prime Minister is as like to Menzies as I to Hercules, as might and main see as an eye to Hercules. So it is not a case now of one vote one value; it is a case where, with all the wisdom of the Caucus on petrol price equalisation schemes and so on, and with all the genius of Caucus to keep down interest rates and provide decent economic housing, they might need a little assistance. That is why, instead of allowing them to have their little gerrymanders in the several States in order to divide the Molonglo or the Yarra or the hills of Sydney, they gave us in the Senate a chamber where State boundaries are the discrimen and the people of the States vote as one. The 6 original States are guaranteed equal voting power in this Senate, and no one can detract from that except by persuading the people to allow an amendment to be made to the Constitution. Nobody can introduce into the Senate intruders who will weaken the power of the States on that compact. 
We owe our existence in the Senate to no accident of birth. We are the sons of no peers, nor are we appointed by outgoing Labor politicians. We are elected by the people on adult suffrage with potency equal to that of the gentlemen and ladies who inhabit the House of Representatives. How real, how genuine is the little theatre of mirth on the part of one representative opposite who is unknown to me? 
We talk about one vote one value. The Northern Territory has about 40,000 voters. If the proposal in this Bill were accepted it would give the people of the Northern Territory one-sixth of the suffrage of Tasmania and it would give them one-seventieth of the suffrage of New South Wales. Government supporters say that the people in the Territories are to get only 2 senators each as against 10 senators from each of the States, but my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has demonstrated that this is just the beginning. We should not allow ourselves to be bemused by the idea that this is a genuine attempt to give representation to the people of these 2 Territories. We, in our period of government aggrandised the Australian Capital Territory in an unparalleled experience- one which the present Government will never achieve. When I was the Minister for Works the Northern Territory rejoiced in a share of the civil works program that built up the Territory magnificiently. These are the acts of genuine welfare that the people of the Territories are entitled to expect. 
The proposal to have 2 senators from each of the Territories is intended not to give genuine representation but to overrule that captious majority which the Prime Minister was not able to persuade into his Caucus at the last Federal elections. He has gone on record in his Chifley lecture as saying that he is dedicated to the destruction of the States. It is on the State Constitution that the Senate is founded. But the Prime Minister, with his regionalism, wishes to eviscerate the very structure and quality of the Senate. He shows that by providing that the 2 representatives from the Territories are not to come into the Senate and to take office for the term of a senator. They are to go out every time the Prime Minister goes to the hustings, in the hope that he can get a Labor senator elected from each of the Territories. 
But so far from contenting himself with a basis upon which to hold by-elections, which is the appropriate constitutional provision for the Senate, he provides also that every time the resignation of a Territorial senator is procured a by-election shall be held. Of course, we have had some experience now of a by-election being achieved in the circumstances of sending  Senator Gair  to Ireland, thus achieving a political advantage for the Labor Party. It would have provided a little longer time in office for this poor Prime Minister who, in the environment of the country, is putting forward such peevish propositions as this and who is for all the world like the chicken that has come out of the coop, pecked and worried and bleeding from the hawks. Here we have the Prime Minister claiming to have achieved an historic occasion, a Joint Sitting of both Houses, whereas the maudlin fact is that the Joint Sitting is necessary only because his electoral result left him in such doubt as to his differences with the Senate that it is necessary for us to come together and, as great democrats, submit the life of the Senate to this miserable majority of three. 
