I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of preface I point out that the volume of traffic on Highway No. 1 from South Australia to the Western Australian border has increased from 27,079 vehicles in 1967-68 to 33,861 vehicles in 1968-69 and that of the total in 1967-68 only 17.7% were registered in South Australia whereas 82.3% were from other states. I ask the Minister: Does this not clearly show that greater use of this section of the highway is now being made by interstate vehicles? If this is so should not this be regarded as a national project with the Commonwealth Government granting finance to seal the last 300 miles approximately from Eyre Peninsula to the Western Australian border, this being the only unsealed section of Highway No. 1 which extends from Cairns to some' 700 miles north of Perth? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science say whether any scientific studies will be made into the possible effects of the present oil spill from the 'Oceanic Grandeur'? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is over the border trading in wheat taking place? Is this type of trading endangering the whole principle of wheat stabilisation and orderly marketing? In this regard, does the Australian Wheat Board control export licences for flour? Does the Board have the power to cancel a flour export licence held by a flour miller and/pr merchant who has purchased wheat outside the Australian Wheat Board? 
-I direct to the Minis  ter representing the Minister for Education and Science a question which follows upon one I asked yesterday. Has he any further information as to whether any scientific studies will be made of the effects of the oil slick caused by the holing of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' in Torres Strait? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Are the application and administration of the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act uniform throughout the States in relation to the assessment of relatively high rental values of houses provided for workers on rural properties by the property owners? Will the Minister inquire whether some rural workers are being unfairly taxed on unreal rental values of such housing? If so, will the Minister consider exempting rural workers from this increased tax which is yet another cost burden upon primary industry and also greatly reduces incentives for workers to seek employment in the rural industry? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister  i  -for . Shipping and Transport advise the Senate of the result of various control measures used to combat the oil slick in Torres Strait caused by the holing of the oil tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur'? Have results been more successful than those obtained in respect of the Torrey Canyon' disaster 2 years ago? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he is aware that Region 5 of the Murray Valley Development League, which represents all councils of the Upper Murray region in South Australia from the Victorian border to Morgan, recently passed the following resolution: 
That this regional committee of the Murray Valley Development League. Region 5, supports immediate ratification of the Dartmouth project. 
Subsequent tothe agreement to complete the Dartmouth dam and its ratification by Parliament, the League do urge a campaign for an intensive investigation of Chowilla and any other River Murray conservation proposals for national development. 
1 note that both  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  have supported the Bill. But  Senator Cant  has gone to great lengths in criticising and condemning the Government's policy with regard to the wheat industry. To me it seemed rather strange - if one had a warped sense of humour it might be rather amusing - that  Senator Cant  spent quite some time condemning the Federal Government and saying that it went to the Australian Wheat Board and they fiddled around and decided on quotas and it went to the State governments which legislated for quotas, when this was the responsibility of the Federal Government. Let me say this: Woe betide the industry if ever we get centralised power for any industry, be it the wheat industry or anything else. 
In fact the Government went to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation - the grass roots of the industry. Without any arm twisting, the Federation made recommendations to the Federal Government for the introduction of voluntary quotas. That is exactly what happened. So, when we hear all this waffle about State legislation. Wheat Board control and so on, I wish  to  remind the Opposition that the Government accepted its responsibility by going to the responsible area of the industry and listening to its proposal. Hence we saw the introduction of wheat quotas. 
Then we heard at quite some length criticism about the cost factors in the industry today. Let me be one of the first to say that the wheat industry, along with many other areas of primary industry, is fraught with many problems. But let us not start star-gazing and saying that, if the Liberal-Country Party coalition 20 years ago had not spent £2m to fight a campaign against rent and price control, today the wheat industry would be a complete and utter paradise. As this matter of rent and price control has been raised, let us look closely at what it really meant and what the Labor Government of the day tried to introduce. 
We know what price control means. It is the complete control of prices. But let us look at the word 'rent'. When the Labor Party talked about rent control people might have thought that it involved 30s or £2 a week, or whatever it may have been, for an office, a flat or a home. But that is not the true interpretation of rent. An economist's interpretation of rent is the surplus above the cost of production on a marginal plot. In other words, rent is income. So what the Labor Party set out to do was to control both incomes and prices. Yet members of the Labor Party have the audacity to go back 20 years and say to the people: 'If you had listened to us you would not be in this position today'. Let me say quite clearly that if. tragically, the people of Australia had listened to them 1 doubt very much whether there would be a wheat industry today, there definitely would not. be a wheat industry under free enterprise. So I suggest that the Opposition should not use arguments such as that. 
We have also heard about interest rates. The criticism here is that the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank works on a 12-monthly basis and that interest is a very costly factor. We know what the interest rate of the Rural Credits Department is. It is  5%.  We also know that the Government proposes to borrow money this year to lend to the Australian Wheat Board to enable it to pay off this debt to the Rural Credits Department. This loan money will cost the Federal Government 5% or in the vicinity of 5%. So, the Federal  Government  is not making a profit out of an industry which at the present time is not in a very sound position, as  Senator Cant  said. On the contrary, the Federal Government today Ls lending money to the wheat industry basically free of charge. It is spending at least  5% to  obtain this money, which it is lending to the industry at the same rate of interest, and absorbing all the administration costs itself. So, let us not talk about the Government trying to make a profit out of the wheat industry in respect of this loan, because that is completely untrue and ill-founded. 
We have heard criticisms tonight from  Senator Cant  with regard to the 51.10 first advance. He said also that a sum of about $3 00m was still owing to the wheat industry. I remind the Opposition that if we had not had a wheat stabilisation scheme and if we had not had a Federal government which was willing lo give the growers such a good first advance, the wheat industry today would be in a much worse position than it is. If we were back to the open market system and did not have a stabilisation scheme, I doubt very much whether there would be much of a wheat industry because there would be price wars not only internally but also automatically on overseas markets. So let us look factually at all these aspects. I am waiting most eagerly to hear  Senator Cant's  proposals, which he says will revolutionise the wheat industry, when the next Bill conies before the Senate. 
We have talked about the overdraft that the Wheat Board has with the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. This Bill provides for the Government lo borrow some $300m of loan money which it will lend to the Wheat Board so that the Wheat Board can meet its commitment to the Rural Credits Department. As I said earlier, the Wheat Board's commitment has decreased as a result of Commonwealth legislation and the generosity of the Commonwealth Government in paying $1.10 a bushel. The  1968-69  season was the best season in the history of the wheat industry in Australia. That season we grew for sale about 515 million bushels of wheat. When that crop is related to the  SI.  10 1 think it will be appreciated that the Government supported very heavily and most readily the Australian wheat industry. In spite of drought and falling wool prices, the wheat industry finished up with the greatest crop of all time. 

 Senator Cant then went on to criticise the fact - I do not know whether the criticism was levelled at the Wheat Board, the Government or someone else - that the Board could sell only 43% of that huge 1968-69 crop. But there are many other factors that must come into this if we try to ascertain why we have a surplus of wheat. Firstly, let us go back to the 1 964-65 season. In that year about 368 million bushels were produced. In the following year 1965-66 production fell to some 259 million bushels. However in 1966-67 we had a crop of 466 million bushels. Then production fell again in 1967-68 to 277 million bushels. That was the season when the industry was in the throes of drought. As a result of double sowing and so on, in the next year 1968-69 we finished with a crop in excess of 500 million bushels. 
The present situation in the wheat industry is not peculiar to Australia. New Zealand was one country which was importing Australian wheat. Suddenly New Zealand became an exporter, not of any great magnitude but nevertheless it became a seller instead of a buyer. So there was one Australian market which dried up. During the years to which  Senator Cant  referred Russia had been a buyer of Australian wheat. That market also has dried up. The introduction of a new type of rice which gives 2 or 3 crops in a season closed some of our markets in India and Pakistan. The new Mexican variety of wheat which can be grown in those countries also played its part in drying up our markets there. In other words, some of our rather traditional markets were gradually closed to us. Coupled wilh all these factors was a great increase in the production of wheat in the United States and Canada. As a result there has been a world surplus of wheat and at the same time a lessening in demand. As I have said, the present situation is not peculiar to Australia. Therefore when honourable senators talk about only 43% of the 1968-69 crop being sold they should be fair and look at all the relevant factors to bring the matter into perspective. 
As I said earlier the Wheat Board had approximately 500 million bushels of wheat to sell. It has sold about 440 million or 450 million bushels. That includes the sale of wheat to China which was announced last December. I am waiting now for  Senator McManus  to jump to his feet and make a few comments. No doubt they will come later. Even though the wheat was sold to China last December, shipment started in January and wil continue until October this year. The terms of the sale are that 10% of the value of the wheat will be paid on shipment and the remainder will be paid in monthly instalments over 12 months. So we will have to wait until October 1971 before the final payment is made. This sale of wheat to China has helped tremendously in shifting a lot of the surplus. Overall we have in the vicinity of 70 million bushels of saleable wheat from the 1968-69 crop still on hand. 
This sale to China, however, does not alleviate the financial problem because, as I have pointed out, the money will not be recouped in full until October next year. Hence there is a vacuum and a debt to the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The Government is to be congratulated for introducing this Bill which I am pleased to see is being supported by both sides of the Senate because it is necessary that the Government have the money it is seeking so that it can be paid to the Australian Wheat Board before 3 1st March this year. 
There has been criticism of the fact that the Rural Credits Department works on a 12-monthly basis. It is claimed that this could affect interest rates, but I have dealt with that aspect already and I think 1 have shown very clearly that in the matter of interest rates the Government definitely is not making any money out of the Wheat Board and that the Wheat Board is borrowing at interest rates far below those that it would have to face if it borrowed outside in the commercial world. I would hate to think what those rates would be. I am sure they would be far higher than what the Government is charging. But even this reduced commitment to the Reserve Bank must be met by 31st March. That is why the Government is stepping into the breach by making a loan to the Wheat Board at 5% interest. 
The Government's action on this occasion shows very clearly its responsible approach to the problems of the Australian Wheat 
Board. The wheat industry is left with all of this year's crop to sell as well as the surplus from last year's crop. The Commonwealth Government has seen fit to come in and underpin the industry, give it security and give the growers, the grass roots of the industry, their first advance. The Government is carrying the responsibility of a long term debt. So when I hear criticisms of this legislationI question the sincerity of the critics. Criticism has also been levelled at the quota system. No doubt we will have a better opportunity to speak on this subject when we are debating another Bill. I mention it now only because  Senator Cant  tonight spent a lot of time criticising the Government and condemning it for lack of leadership. 
I believe that the Government has shown good, sound, fair and democratic leadership. It has not acted as a dictatorial and centralised form of administration. It is a Government which is representative of the people and their industries. It has encouraged free enterprise and expression and responsible attitudes.It has listened to representatives of the Australian wheat industry and has heeded their recommendations about quotas. In the year following the great crop of over 500 million bushels representatives of the wheat industry held discussions with the Government and as a result the quota system was introduced. Whether we like it or not, it is necessary that uniform legislation be introduced throughout the Commonwealth to implement the system. It was necessary for State Governments as well as the Federal Government to pass complementary legislation. The point I wish to emphasise is that the wheat industry made the recommendations, as a responsible body, and the Government accepted those recommendations. This is an entirely different picture from that which might have been painted had a government of a different political colour been in office. 
Last year the overall Australian quota was not filled. A drought reduced the crop in Queensland and had an adverse effect on the crops in the northern part of New South Wales. Western Australia also suffered a drought. The result was that 2 States grew over-quota wheat, but the overall Commonwealth total was below the quota. Although the total quota was not reached - for 1969-70 the wheat industry brought in quotas totalling about 357 million bushels - people in the industry appreciated the problems associated with surpluses such as storage and potential markets aggravated by vast surpluses of wheat in the United States of America and Canada. For those reasons this year the wheat industry has voluntarily recommended to the Government - and I emphasise the word 'voluntarily' - a further reduction in quotas to 3 1 8 million bushels. The Government has accepted the recommendation as a basis. So when honourable senators opposite with tongue in cheek launch attacks about the irresponsibility of the Government or the wheat industry I believe those statements to be complete and utter untruths. Apart from whatever might have happened in the past, the wheat industry has shown complete responsibility in facing up to its problems. On the other hand, the Government has shown fair and democratic leadership. I give my wholehearted support to the Bill. I again congratulate the wheat industry on showing such responsibility and I am pleased for its sake that we have a democratic government which is prepared to listen to the good, sound leadership of an industry. 
1 rise to speak in support of the Bill. I am very conscious of the unfortunate circumstances which have made it necessary to give the Bill rapid passage through the Parliament. At present the Senate is sitting in a state of emergency. Having listened to the debate tonight, I must say that in some ways I was rather amused with the attitude which the Opposition took. Honourable senators opposite criticised the manner in which this Bill was introduced into the Senate. I would have thought that they were conscious of the fact that we are sitting in state of emergency.  Senator Devitt,  who has just resumed his seat, questioned whether the Bill would be effective because it is being rushed through the Parliament.  Senator Keeffe,  in his usual fashion, said that he is very suspicious of there being niggers in the woodpile. 
The point I wish to make is that it is necessary for the Parliament to provide the utmost protection it can to counter any pollution or risk of pollution which will damage our coastal areas, reefs and the ecology of the sea. I do commend the Government for the rapidity with which it has introduced this Bill. All honourable senators are conscious of the dangerous and unfortunate circumstances of the holing of the 
Oceanic Grandeur' and the great amount of oil that has been spilt. We are fortunate that the initial spillage of this oil has drifted away from the Australian coastline and not on to it. We are also conscious of the fact that something like  30,000  tons of oil is left in this tanker. We know that Ampol Petroleum Ltd quickly despatched a tanker, the 'Leslie J. Thompson', to the scene and that it took on a full cargo of oil. We also know it will be some time before another tanker can go to the scene and remove some of the  30,000  tons of oil which is left. The point I want to make is that it is necessary to give powers to the Minister so that he can act very effectively and quickly, if necessary, because this ship is not sitting in an area of safety. It is sitting on a reef. It is sitting in an area which is a cyclonic area, and who knows what could happen in a few days? Another  30,000  tons of oil could seep out into the sea. 
I will deal with that in a moment,  Senator. I  think the gun is definitely loaded for the Minister. That is the very reason why this Bill is introduced into the Parliament tonight. The Minister did not have the powers to do these things before, hence the legislation was passed in the other place today and it is here for us to pass tonight. I hope that the Senate will carry this Bill tonight. Earlier  Senator Mulvihill  questioned whether or not the shipping companies were doing the right thing. He mentioned the fact that other ships were going by. I want to say that I am not going to argue with  Senator Mulvihill  whether or not the ship owners are doing the right thing. I think any captain is a responsible man with a lot of value under his control. He will do his best to give protection to his ship, crew, and cargo. But I do support  Senator Mulvihill,  who is one honourable senator who has taken a very keen interest in the protection of wild life, flora and fauna, in his remarks regarding the big tankers which are plying up and down the coast and the potential dangers of these big tankers. Tonight this legislation is giving protection to our coastal areas as far as we are capable and able to go in giving protection because within this Bill the Minister has powers to do these things which some honourable senators have suggested this Bill does not empower him to do. 
I listened with interest to  Senator Byrne  tonight. Of course, he has a legal background. 
I agree. Paragraph  329g  deals with the escape of oil. If honourable senators look at paragraph  329f  they will see it states: (1.)  Where the Minister is satisfied that - 
oil is escaping from or likely to escape from a ship. 
Under this provision the Minister can act, if there is any risk at all, as promptly as he likes. If the oil is either escaping or if he considers there is any risk of it escaping, the Minister has power to act. If one goes on further one sees the further powers the Minister has. If he considers there is even a risk of oil leaking he may act. Paragraph  329f (2.)  states: 
action to prevent the escape of oil from the ship; 
the removal of oil from the ship, or  a  specified part of the ship, in such manner, if any, as is specified by the Minister to such place, if any, as is so specified. 
Under this provision the Minister has power to call in some other tanker to the damaged tanker and to discharge oil from it. If the captain does not agree to this action the Minister has power to charge the master of that damaged tanker with all the costs. 
If you read the Bill, senator, you will find he does. If one reads on further (c) states: 
The removal of the ship to a place specified by the Minister. 
Here the Minister has full control to do what he likes with the ship or the cargo of that ship if oil is leaking or if he thinks there is any likelihood of oil leaking. 
Yes, it does. If the honourable senator reads paragraph  329f  (a) he will see that even if the Minister considers there is a likelihood of any oil escaping he can act. As far as I am concerned, if one reads this one will see that the Minister has full power. This Bill gives him complete and utter power.  Senator Byrne  questioned the matter of penalties, but he did not question the power of the Minister. I want to make this clear. 
He questioned the penalties but he did not question the powers of the Minister. This is the effective part of this Bill. The effectiveness conies in with the powers which the Minister has to do the things in his capacity as Minister to give the utmost protection in the event of a leak or the possibility of a leak. I have spoken for only a short time but I wanted to point these things out. 
One does not have to waffle on. One can make one's point in a few moments. On this occasion 1 have made the point that this Bill gives the Minister full powers to act. I support this Bill and I am pleased to see that other honourable senators are going to do the same. 
I present the first report of the Printing Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry seen an article relating to the commercial progress of substitute and synthetic foods as an alternative to or substitute for meat? ls it not a fact that there are substitute steaks, chicken, bacon and even prawns on the American market and that patents have been taken out for the production of synthetic meats from mineral oil? As these substitute and synthetic meats are a real threat to the meat industry of Australia, will the Minister take steps to see that no production licences for these so-called meats are issued in Australia? Will he also ban the importation of any of these products into Australia so that Australian meat producers will be protected? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 ask: Is there any significance in the fact that Captain Cook's cannon at present in King's Hall is aimed at the office of the Leader of the Opposition? 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Primary Industry,  upon  notice: 
Is over-the-border trading in wheat taking place. 
Is this type of trading endangering the whole principle of wheat stabilisation and orderly marketing. 
Does the Australian Wheal Board control the export licences onflour. 
Does the Australian Wheat Board have the power to cancel flour export licences - with particular reference to a flour miller and/or merchant, who has purchased wheat outside the Australian Wheat Board. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. With over-border trading in wheat taking place and with the danger of spreading noxious weeds from one State to another, I ask whether the Minister for Primary Industry will discuss with the respective State Ministers the necessity for road transports loaded with wheat or grain to have a way-bill or bill of lading naming both the consignor and consignee, if the transports travel interstate. Would not this procedure enable the authorities to keep a check on the overborder movement of grain and prevent the spread of noxious weeds which could have an adverse effect on many rural areas? Further, would not this procedure also enable authorities to find out who are involved in the over-border trading of wheat, which could endanger the whole structure of the Australian wheat industry? 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer I refer to the latest increase of  i%  in the bank interest rates, which it has been decided is not to apply to primary industry. With a lower borrowing rate of interest for primary industry than that applying to other borrowings, can the Minister say whether there is likely to be any resistance by banking institutions to the lending of money to the primary industry sector? Can the Minister give an assurance that steps will be taken to ensure that primary industry will not be penalised by lending institutions through a preference to advance money to those sectors which would pay higher rates on overdrafts? 
The honourable senator will find out if he sits here long enough. 
My apologies to  Senator Murphy.  1 referred to  Mr Whitlam.  We are faced not only with the extremes that I have already mentioned; we have also the problem of a great range of dialects within the Territory. We find some of the inhabitants speaking English. As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said tonight, the number of dialects spoken throughout the Territory runs into quite a few hundreds. 
 I would not know. Perhaps the honourable senator can inform me. But at least the number runs into hundreds. The main point is that a great number of different dialects are spoken. We find people who can speak English fluently. Then we find others who can speak Pidgin. Then we find those who are termed in the Territory 'one talks'. In this situation we must find problems, and we must show responsibility and patience at all times and roust give guidance to these people and assist them to reach a stage of development at which they can administer and develop their country for themselves. lt is very important in our approach to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea that we give the guidance, the leadership and support that are required, both from the technical standpoint and the financial standpoint, so that these people will lay a solid foundation on which they can develop their nation in future years.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack mentioned tonight - and I will mention it again in case his words fell on deaf ears on the other side of the chamber - the tragedies that occurred in so many countries where impatience took over. In some cases people outside a particular country encouraged the inhabitants to take over their own administration before they were ready to do so effectively. We have all seen the tragedy that has befallen such countries. This is the kind of thing that we, as a responsible government, are not prepared to allow to happen in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The Government has been accused of being dictatorial and of having adopted a colonial approach to the Territory. I refute this statement. Honourable senators need not rely upon my refutation. 1 will give them further evidence shortly. They may refer to the responsible indigenes themselves who will contradict these charges. The policy of this Government has been, and still is, that the people of the Territory can have self-government and independence when the majority of them decide that they are ready to accept independence. In other words this Government has adopted a democratic policy. It is doing all it can to assist these people in their development, and when the people themselves consider - not when we consider - that they are ready for independence, and when the majority of the people support a claim for independence, they can have that independence. There is not one member on the other side of this chamber who can deny that this has been the Government's policy or that it still is the Government's policy. They jolly well know that this is so. 
The honourable senator might like to carry out some gerrymandering in this place but we are democratic and we do not believe in this system. We are not going to give such a system to the people of Papua and New Guinea. They will have a secret vote without any tickets. 
Let us consider what has happened in the Territory in the short space of time in which this Government has been involved with the people there. If we look at the facts fairly and squarely we must concede that what has been done constitutes an outstanding achievement It is an achievement that not only this Government but the whole of the people of Australia can be proud of. We should all be proud to have participated in such a wonderful example of what assistance and encouragement towards self development can achieve. Let me return to a consideration of what has taken place in the Territory and is taking place today. Financial grants to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea have increased considerably. Last year we budgeted for about $96m in grants to the Territory, but this is not all thai Australia gave. We also contribute a great number of administrative officers, from patrol officers right up to district commissioners and in other fields. If we consider the monetary value of this assistance we will find that $96m would be far short of the actual amount that Australia is contributing to New Guinea each financial year to assist in the development of the territory's social structure. 
We have brought many primitive people up to various stages of civilised living, right through to a state of complete sophistication. One has only to visit the Territory to see for oneself just what has taken place. We find many indigenes holding very responsible jobs. They have taken advantage of the opportunities for education and have developed themselves to such a stage of sophistication that many of them would be able to hold down what are considered good administrative positions in Australia itself. This again, 1 believe, brings credit to the Australian Government and the Administration of the Territory. 
In any country that is being developed 2 things are very important. They are education and communications. Let us look at the physical side. Roads have been built not just in the easy coastal areas of the Territory but right up through the mountainous areas of the Highlands. There are roads running right from Lae to Goroka and beyond, through Hagen and across to Mendi. Half the population of the Territory at present is congregated in the Highlands. The Highlands represent one of the most fertile areas in the Territory and perhaps I can go further and say that it is perhaps one of the most fertile areas in the world. 
It will grow anything. I suggest the honourable senator go up there at some time and he will find exactly what can be grown there. There is such a variation of climate because of difference of altitude, and such a security of seasons, that you name it, they can grow it. 
What has been lacking in the Territory has been communications, a means of transporting produce from the area or bringing in various requirements of life. Communications have been provided. This has been a continuous process. Roads are being continually developed. There is one area in which already an airstrip has been provided although there is no road connection. This has been done to assist development. It is a very fertile area and is now ready for the local inhabitants of the surrounding areas to move in. So one cannot discredit anything that is being done in this area for the development of the country. We know that additional roads are being constructed and that further proposals are being advanced for still more roads. We do not decide in a dictatorial fashion whether those roads are to be built. The proposals are discussed with the Administration and with the local officers to see where the priorities should lie, just as we deal with priorities on the mainland of Australia. Honourable senators opposite talk about dictatorial attitudes. I suggest that they cease reflecting upon their own meetings and turn their attention to the overall administration of the democracy which exists in Australia and is administered in the Territory through the present Commonwealth Government. 
I turn now to education. I noticed that  Senator O'Byrne  tonight steered clear of education. Education is one of the grass roots of the development of any country. It is also one of the grass roots of a developed country. What is taking place in the Territory? In 1969-70 something in excess of $29m will be spent on education. There is a long term objective programme to provide a comprehensive education system covering the whole Territory under which any children who desire to have a primary education will be able to have it. Let us look at the field of secondary and tertiary education. What do we find there? Secondary and tertiary education has the objective of producing people with the particular technical and professional qualifications needed to meet the manpower requirements of government. I emphasise that because it spells out very clearly the aim of the Australian Government to assist these people and to educate them to the stage where they can control their own administration. As I have said, education is at the grass roots of any community. The objectives do not stop at primary and secondary education. They extend to the tertiary field. 
Let us have a very quick look at what is being done in the field of education in the Territory. There are two sections in the breakdown covering primary schools which more than 213,000 pupils are attending. Some 15,500 pupils attend the Territory high schools, and there are multi-racial high schools as well. Tonight someone had the audacity to claim that there was segregation. In the Territory there are multi-racial high schools which some 800 pupils are attending. About 2,900 pupils are attending the technical schools, and there are vocational centres where students, who perhaps do not want to go into the academic field or who for other reasons cannot go into the academic field, are taught a trade. The vocational training that they receive assists them in the various fields of employment which are open to them and in their own particular environment. Some 1,400 pupils are attending the vocational centres. 
Let us see what happened last year in the field of tertiary education. There were some 550 students at the university, about 140 at the Institute of Technology and 70 at the Medical College. 
Seventy. That is 7 times 10. 
In the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. I suggest that you go there and get some information for yourself. There are 40 at the forestry school and 100 at the agricultural college. 
Yes, because they are worrying you. Large numbers of young people are taking the opportunity that is being given to them by the Australian Government and by the Administration to get an education and to advance themselves in this life.  Senator O'Byrne  was very critical. He claimed that commercial enterprises are taking over the whole of the Territory. Let me tell him that there are in existence already in the Territory many co-operatives which are helping large numbers of people to develop tea plantations and to engage in other fields of activity. Criticism has been levelled at the Bougainville copper project. Let us look at a few of the figures relevant to the development that is taking place at Bougainville at the present time. The Territory of Papua and New Guinea is taking up its entitlement of a 20% interest in the company at par. lt is estimated that eventually they will receive a very large sum of money. They will receive 60% of the taxable income of the company. In addition, because of their 20% interest they will receive 20% of the dividends. When the company comes into full production they will be receiving well in excess of S50m. That money will be of great assistance to them in the development of the Territory generally. It will not be taken from only 1 mining company and it will not be spent in only 1 area of the Territory. That is an example of self generating capital within a country helping the continued development of that country. 1 want to refer now to another extremely important part of the development and eventual control of the centre of administration - the Parliament. In the Territory today there is a House of Assembly in which a large number of indigenes representing their own people take part in the running of the affairs of their country. They are elected by the normal democratic adult franchise method in a secret vote. It is all very well for  Senator Poyser  to shake his head but what I have said is correct. The indigenous people are represented in the Parliament and they have their voice in the Parliament. If the honourable senator has not sat in the House of Assembly in Papua and New Guinea, I have. I have seen these people exercising their democratic rights as elected representatives. I have heard them voice what they consider to be the opinions of the people they represent. - 
It is all very well for you to say that this is a sham but later I shall mention something about a select committee of the House of Assembly which visited Australia and we will see whether it is a sham or whether these people are being given the opportunity to be responsible and whether the members of the House of Assembly are elected by democratic methods. If you are doubtful about this you should go there and have a look for yourself and you will learn what is going on. 
Yes, but it may have been a long time ago. I have mentioned that indigenous people are elected to the Parliament. They also hold ministerial portfolios. 1 do not know whether you will shake your head now,  Senator Poyser,  and say that these people are not given responsibility. 1 have always understood that a Minister is a very responsible person. These people are given portfolios. They are also assisted by the Administration during this transitional period. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! There is too much conversation in the chamber. 
If they want to carry on a debate among themselves,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that is all right with me. I will continue when they finish. 1 know that this is embarrassing them, but it is time they saw the light. These ministerial members are given the opportunity to gain a lot of experience which eventually will place them in a position to conduct the government of the country themselves. So here again nothing but commendation can be given to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and particularly to the Administration for what is being done. - 
A moment ago at least one honourable senator opposite shook his head when I referred to representation in the parliament of the people. We are all aware that this year the members  of  a select committee of the House of Assembly of the Territory came to Australia to take evidence for the very reason that they wanted to find out what type of government and administration they would like in the future, when they are ready. 
Yes, they even saw  Mr Whitlam.  I will be commenting on that later. The honourable senator should not have mentioned that. 1 propose to quote from the second interim report of the select committee. 
I will table it afterwards, if the honourable senator wants me to. The report states: 
The House will be aware that, following on the talks which your Committee sought with representatives of the Commonwealth Government in February last, there have been announcements in the Governor-General's Speech and by the Minister for External Territories in the House of Representatives of steps that the Commonwealth Government intends to take immediately to give increased powers to ministerial members. The relevant part of the Governor-General's Speech and the statement of the Minister are set out in the appendices to this report. 
I will table them if  Senator Poyser  wants  me  to. The report goes on to say: 
The constitutional changes now proposed are the direct result of your Committee's Canberra talks and reflect the importance that the Commonwealth Government places on the work of your Committee. 
Yet honourable senators opposite have the audacity to say that we do not show much regard for members of the House of Assembly and that they are not democratically elected. The report continues: 
The Committee is now reviewing the constitutional position that has been reached and will probably propose further talks with the Commonwealth Government later in 1970. 
If  Senator Poyser  wants the names of the members of the committee- 
 I will read out the names for  Senator Poyser.  I have all the time in the world tonight. I will go through them all, although I may have a little trouble in pronouncing some of them. The names of the members of the committee are:  Mr Paulus  Arek, who is the Chairman;  Mr Johnson,  who is the  Deputy  Chairman;  Mr Donatus  Mola, who represents the Bougainville North open electorate- 
 Mr Donatus  Mola.  Senator Keeffe  may have a look at it afterwards. He may not be able to read, but perhaps somebody will help him. The other members of the committee are:  Mr Sinake  Giregire, who represents the Daulo open electorate and is a ministerial member;  Mr Matthias  Toliman, who represents the Gazelle open electorate - that is very interesting because the name 'Gazelle' makes little noise in the ears of honourable senators opposite;  Mr T.  J. Leahy, who represents the Markham open electorate;  Mr Ebia  Olewale, who represents the South Fly open electorate;  Mr J.  M. Middleton, who represents the Sumkar open electorate;  Mr Matiabe  Yuwi, who represents the Tari open electorate;  Mr Tei  Abal, who represents the Wabag open electorate and is also a ministerial member;  Mr Oala  AolaRarua, who represents the Central regional electorate;  Mr Michael  Somare, who represents the East Sepik regional electorate;  Mr W.  A. Lussick, who represents the Manus and New Ireland regional electorate; and  Mr C.  G. Littler, who is an official member. 
They are the names. Where  Senator Poyser's  comment or criticism with regard to them is I would not know. One interesting point that I think I should mention is the comment that this very responsible committee made when it returned to the Territory. This was reported in the 'Australian' of 11th February this year in the following terms: 
Committee members said they had not been impressed with talks they had with the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in Sydney. 
They said they felt  Mr Whitlam  was voicing what had been drafted by somebody else. 
I wonder for whom he is the spokesman. I believe that this is very pertinent. This is the comment of a responsible committee which a few minutes ago an honourable senator opposite appeared to question. As the members of the Committee have pointed out, our Government accepted them as a responsible committee, talked to them as a responsible committee and is prepared to have further talks with them as a responsible committee of the Parliament of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. They have spoken in these veins. They have been satisfied with and have praised the cooperation and assistance they have received from the Government, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  But they turned around and passed the comment I have quoted in regard to  Mr Whitlam.I  believe that that is very significant. It is no wonder that honourable senators opposite are not very pleased about our having this debate tonight. The Australian Government is accepting its full responsibility to do all it possibly can to assist in the development of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Now let us have a look at what happened when  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in the other place and of the Australian Labor Party, went to the Territory at the beginning of this year. He went there, as he said, on a fact finding tour. 
Yes, that is right. He went there in a VIP aircraft. But what happened when he arrived in the place. He made the statement that he was going to the Territory on a fact finding tour, but the moment he arrivedin Port Moresby and before he had stepped out of the airport he was making critical and pertinent comments on what he considered should be done. What were the reactions of some of the people to those comments before he even left Port Moresby? The next day one of the reporters sent back a report which was published in the 'Australian' of 31st December in the following terms:  . .  Mr Whitlam  yesterday angered both radical and conservative New Guinean leaders with his plans for independence for the Territory by 1976. 
The headline on the report read: 'Whitlam Policy Angers Leaders in New Guinea'. 
The leaders of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. There were more reports of that nature, but I had better not take up time by quoting from them. That is what happened in relation to this man who is the Leader of the Opposition and the alternative Prime Minister and would be Prime Minister if the people of this country were ever so silly as to let him in. He is supposed to be responsible and to give leadership, direction and confidence to these people. 
But what does he do? The moment he arrives and before his aircraft has even left for its return journey to Australia he is making speeches that are disturbing the leaders of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Yet he said that he was going there on a fact finding tour. One supposes that he has fallen into the trap, in the same way as the majority of members of the Opposition have, in that half the time he does not bother to find out the facts but just talks, as one of the New Guinean leaders said, basically off the top of his head. 
-I will quote the statement later, if the honourable senator would like me to. Fortunately the Australian Government always makes sure of the facts and always also applies fair democratic principles in order to encourage development and the granting of opportunities for all those who wish to avail themselves of opportunities. The people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea can be very pleased that they have had the type of Australian Government that we in Australia are lucky we have had. It has meant that they have been able to take advantage of kindly assistance, sound administration and encouragement for further development. 
What did  Mr Whitlam  do when he left the Port Moresby airport? He went to many places. He finished up. going to the Gazelle Peninsula where there had been a hot bed and a ferment by a militant group in the area concerned with the multi-racial council. That multi-racial council is not peculiar to the Gazelle Peninsula. In the Territory there are many multi-racial councils which have been in existence for quite a few years. We all know that these multi-racial councils are a gain. The councillors are elected by the democratic system of secret ballot in adult franchise.  Senator Poyser  is shaking his head again. He should visit the Territory and find out for himself. He has made so many mistakes tonight that he must be embarrassed. 
It is true. I challenge the honourable senator to prove where I am wrong. This is true. The people of the 
Territory know that it is true. The members of the House of Assembly are elected in a democratic way. 
 They are elected by secret ballot. The present militant group in the multi-racial council are denying the people in the Gazelle Peninsula the right to have a referendum conducted in a democratic manner, which would be by way of a secret vote. The militant group wants an open vote so that they can stand over the voters and make sure how people they know vote. This is not democracy. The Leader of the Opposition went to the Gazelle Peninsula. He supported and encouraged this group. All he did was encourage a wider split between the groups of people in the Gazelle Peninsula. Instead of talking he should have been encouraging moderation and providing an opportunity of unity so that these people could work together and not splinter off into various sections. As  Senator O'Byrne  said tonight, that should not be allowed to happen in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The militant few in Bougainville have discussed and talked about seceding from the Territory. They have been encouraged by this type of irresponsible leadership from the Opposition Party. The Leader of the Opposition went there to try to make political gains to the disadvantage of people in a country that has not yet reached the stage of sophistication of standing on its own feet. This irresponsible leadership should be deplored by the Australian people.  Senator Poyser,  who is trying to interject, cannot contradict what I say. I refer to 2 resolutions passed in the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea this year. I emphasise again that the great majority of the representatives in the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are indigenes. This is a very important point. The 2 resolutions were: 
That this House expresses its deep concern at the secession movement developing in Bougainville. 
That this House urges the Administration and all others connected wilh Bougainville to do their utmost to promote the idea of the unity of all Papuans and New Guineans and that the Adminis tration and Members of the House ensure that the feelings of the House are conveyed firmly to all Local Government Councils on Bougainville, and their opinions sought. 
That is the view of the representatives of the people of New Guinea. That is the expressed desire of the indigenes. The Leader of the Opposition saw fit to go to that area to encourage and to stir up further trouble. He worked completely in reverse from the desires of the representatives of the people, as expressed in the 2 resolutions passed in the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. To me, the absolute tragedy is that this should have been allowed to happen. As 1 said before and I say again very emphatically, the people of the Territory should be very pleased that they have had a responsible and sympathetic government in Australia which respects the people, the potential of a country and the rights of the people and which ensures that they will have an opportunity to develop themselves to a stage at which they can become a nation in their own right. In the process of this development, through stupid rashness and encouragement of sectionalism, they can destroy themselves, as has happened in so many of the partly developed countries today. I am not alone in saying these things. The criticisms have been levelled not only by Australians and the Australian Press but by people in the Territory. The criticisms are very pertinent and to the point and show clearly what are the desires of the people of the Territory and what were their resentments of the man who stands as the alternative leader of the Australian nation, which has done so much for the Territory, and who visited there and attempted to destroy the very principles and foundations which this country has spent so long to develop. I quote again from the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. The article reads: 
Whitlam opposed by NG leaders. 
The Federal Opposition Leader,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, has run into strong objections from indigenous leaders to his plan for Papua-New Guinea to be granted home rule by 1973. 
The leaders are worried the Territory will not be ready in time to cope with the problems raised by self-government. 
Even the secretary of the so-called radical and rationalist Pangu Party,  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki, has refused to support  Mr Whitlam's  plan. 
Honourable senators will remember  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki. Two years ago he was working his hardest for home rule. I think he saw the error of his ways or saw the opposition of his own members - the indigenes.  Mr Maori  Kiki said that he would refuse to support  Mr Whitlam's  plan. The article continues: 

 Mr Whitlam has been telling indigenous leaders in talks over the past 2 days that they would receive internal self-government in a year if Labor won the next election in 1972. 
His remarks have caused concern in the Territory, especially among conservative indigenous leaders. Most are willing to see gradual selfgovernment and some agree that they could be ready by 1973. 
But they consider 1976 far too soon for full independence. 

 Mr Whitlam said that they will have independence. He did not ask whether they would like it. He said they will have independence by 1976. These people have stated that they are not ready for it. An article in the 'Canberra Times' -states: 
Native MPs hit at Labor Leader. 
Two senior Native members of the Papua-New Guinea House of Assembly strongly criticised the Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  yesterday, for trying to 'push' the Territory towards independence against the wishes of its people. 
They said they were forming a party to oppose the unrepresentative opinion which they claim  Mr Whitlam  was echoing. 
I think this is very important. Up until the present time there has been no Party system in the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, but so much concern has been caused by  Mr Whitlam's  words, while he was there, and the trouble he has stirred up that some of these indigenes have said that they do not want a Party system yet - they do not consider that they are ready for it - but they are being hurried into it only for the express reason of getting a Party to oppose the policies expounded by  Mr Whitlam  while he was there. The article continues: 

 Mr Whitlam's 2 critics, the Ministerial Member of Health,  Mr Lokoloko,  and the Ministerial Member for Posts and Telegraphs,  Mr Giregire,  would not set a target date for self-government for independence. 
They felt it would be premature to do this before the results of Papua-New Guinea's second S-year economic development plan, due to be completed in 1978, were known. 
Again, I am quoting what the indigenes said. I think I should finish with the gem of them all. Another article in the 'Canberra Times' states: 
Whitlam told to pack up, go home. 
Port Moresby - A ministerial member in the Papua-New Guinea House of Assembly,  Mr Oala  Oala Rarua, told the Federal Opposition Labor Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  today to 'pack up and go home'. 

 Mr Oala Rarua clashed with  Mr Whitlam  after the Labor leader told about 100 villagers that a Labor Government would grant the Territory home rule immediately and independence within 4 years. 

 Mr Oala Rarua interjected at one stage and told  Mr Whitlam  he had stirred up enough trouble and should 'pack up and go home'. 
I think that is very significant. That statement was made by one of the responsible indigenous members of the House of Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The honourable senator might call these people irresponsible, but we do not. We recognise them as a responsible people. We encourage responsibility. In conclusion, Australians are very fortunate to have had the type of government that we have had for so long and will continue to have. The people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are doubly fortunate and are thankful that they have had the same government that has given them sympathetic administration and leadership and assistance to help in the development of their country so that one day it will be come an independent and properous nation. 
In entering this debate I am fully conscious of my responsibilities as a representative of South Australia in the Senate. Hence 1 say at the outset that J support ihe Bill introduced by the Government. So much has been said in this debate tonight that I believe we should explore the history of proposals for dams at Chowilla and Dartmouth and get the facts in their proper perspective. The original proposals for a storage at Chowilla were put forward by  Sir Thomas  Playford. I endorse the remarks of  Senator Toohey  about  Sir Thomas  Playford. He is one of the greatest South Australians of all times. He was both a Premier and a statesman. In 1961 the River Murray Commission agreed to the building of a dam in Chowilla to hold approximately 5.06 million acre feet at an estimated cost of about $28m. However, at the same time the Commission also stated thai further investigations should be made of the proposal. It was then found that certain other aspects had come into being in association with the proposal and the estimated cost increased to about $43m. 
At that stage the River Murray Commission Still agreed to build a dam at Chowilla. Tenders were called in October 1966 for the construction of a dam, and closed in April 1S67. The most favourable tender submitted was at an estimated cost of about $6Sm. At that stage certain questions were raised involving costs and benefits of the project. Queries also arose with regard to salinity. The River Murray Commission included at that time a representative of South Australia who was under the instruction of  Mr Dunstan,  then the Labor Premier of South Australia. The South Australian representative agreed that a technical committee of the River Murray Commission should look further into all aspects of the proposal generally and report back to the Commission before any work at Chowilla would be proceeded with. 
When the technical committee reported to the Commission it agreed, with the approval of the representative of  Mr Dunstan,  that further studies of the river system should be made and alternative proposals considered. Agreement was also reached on the assumptions to be used in further investigating alternative storages on the River Murray system. Queries have been raised tonight about the River Murray Commission. The Commission represents the governments of South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales and the Federal Government. Any decision made by the Commission must be unanimous. This procedure gives a State like South Australia a lot of protection because it has a power of veto. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the procedure is that the matter be taken to arbitration for determination by an independent arbitrator in order to reach a final decision. I challenge honourable senators opposite to cite one occasion when the River Murray Commission has not acted on a national basis in the interests of the partners of the Commission. 
But let me go further than this. There has been a lot of criticism tonight about the Federal Government, and a lot of criticism about the present Government in South Australia to the effect that it is responsible for the losing of the Chowilla Dam. I say quite frankly that it is a tragedy that so much politics has been played in this controversy of Dartmouth and Chowilla, particularly in South Australia. I want to say something for clarification. I do not want to say it emotionally or to express any political bias. I want to say something very factually and fairly about the criticism that has been levelled tonight. Firstly, if  Mr Dunstan,  who was then Premier, was determined that Chowilla was the only dam for South Australia, why did he agree through his representative on the River Murray Commission at that time to investigations taking place whereby alternatives were examined? I cannot find any record of  Mr Dunstan  having taken a stand with the River Murray Commission. Why did he not stand firm for Chowilla at that time and force the other partners of the River Murray Commission to challenge his stand under arbitration? He had the power to do it if he so wished but I repeat that he agreed to further investigations including that of Chowilla and alternatives to Chowilla such as Dartmouth. 
Queries have been raised with regard to assumptions that were used in investigating these alternatives. If  Mr Dunstan  did not agree with some of these assumptions at the time why then did he not object? Here again  Mr Dunstan  had the opportunity and the right under the rules of the River Murray Commission to do this if he wanted to. But again 1 can see no record of when this opposition was raised. But when finally it was agreed that further investigations would be made of the whole river system  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, took around a letter of intent to  Sir Henry  Bolte of Victoria and  Mr Askin  of New South Wales which stated that the decision to defer the construction of Chowilla arose from many factors not previously established. It said that current investigations were aimed at sustaining the advantage already mentioned, which was that South Australia's entitlement of 1.25 million acre feet would still be maintained. That is as I interpret this letter of intent. 
I do not condemn  Mr Dunstan's  actions at that time. I think he acted very responsibly in looking at other proposals. He did what a State Premier should do - look for what he considered was in the best interests of his State. But I am critical of the fact that now both he and Opposition senators tonight have seen fit to turn around and condemn this Government and the present Premier of South Australia and to lay the blame at his feet because Chowilla now is second to the 
Dartmouth concept. I have no record of where Opposition senators raised any objections either to looking at alternatives or to the assumptions that were to be used. If I am wrong 1 ask them tonight to indicate to mc where they did raise these matters at the dme because 1 cannot find it in the records. If Opposition senators were going to talk about South Australia losing the Chowilla Dam this was ihe time, when  Mr Dunstan  agreed to this deferment and the investigation of alternatives. This was the time when South Australia lost the Chowilla Dam. If blame is to be laid anywhere it must be laid right at the feet of the Labor Party. It is no good standing in this place, pointing the finger at the Government and blaming us for the fact that Dartmouth has come into being. Let us be honest and frank and admit that if blame - and I am not blaming anyone - is to be laid for the concept of Chowilla being lost it should be remembered that it was lost during this period when the River Murray Commission, including  Mr Dunstan's  representative who was working under instructions from him as Premier of South Australia, agreed to look at alternatives. 1 was very interested to see what transpired in the Victorian House of Assembly. I obtained copies of the Hansards showing the debates that took place on the River Murray Waters Bill and the River Murray Waters (Dartmouth Reservoir) Bill. I noted that the leader of the debate for the Opposition, the Labor member  Mr Floyd,  as reported on page 3386 of the Assembly Hansard of the Victorian Parliament, was very critical and condemned the whole concept of Chowilla. The first point he made was: 1 intend to deal exclusively with the Bill and to explain that Chowilla was a fake. I intend to quote the Premier and other honourable members of the Liberal Party to show thai they fully supported the scheme. The proposal was a fake and a political gimmick. 
He went on further: 
Of course, South Australia recognised that a reservoir at Chowilla was belter than nothing. 
I do not agree with him, but still I am quoting what he said. He went on: 
A change of heart then took place and, despite the gerrymander, there was also a change of Government in South Australia. Suddenly, it was found that the great Investigations that had taken place concerning the proposed Chowilla reservoir were insufficient to justify increasing the amount of money that it was intended to spend on the new reservoir from $28m to $70m. 
Here he was referring specifically to the period when the then Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  agreed to the deferment. I want to quote further from  Mr Floyd's  very critical remarks about the Chowilla Dam. As recorded on page 3388 of the Victorian Hansard he was asked whether conditions would be good enough for ducks at Chowilla. He said: 
Williamstown ducks- 1 might add that he is the member for Williamstown - would not go (here for the weekend. In view of the experience of the Government, the Stale Rivers and Water Supply Commission and the River Murray Commission, it is difficult for members of the Opposition to work out how Victoria fell for the Chowilla gimmick in 1961. 
I do not agree with the sentiments expressed by  Mr Floyd  but I was very interested to see what the leading  speaker  for the Labor Party in the Victorian Parliament had to say about the concept of Chowilla. 1 will be interested to see what position Victorian Opposition senators will take in this debate and the division which will be called on this Bill. Are they here as members of the South Australian Labor Party or are they here as States men representing their State of Victoria? If it is the latter, I ask them what is the reason for the difference between their expressions and actions in the Senate and those of their colleagues of the Opposition in the House of Assembly in Victoria, because the Bill in Victoria was agreed to without amendment and without even taking a division. As indicated in the Victorian Hansard at page 3479, no amendment was moved and no division was necessary. This in itself is again very interesting. When we look to the New South Wales debate we find that right at the finish of it the only Labor spokesman, so far as I can see - a  Mr Johnston  - said: 
There is no reason why we should oppose Ihe Bill. 
As I understand it,  Mr Johnston,  a Labor member from Broken Hill. He said: 
However, there is no reason why we should oppose the Bill. 
The motion was agreed to. With the exception of 1 clause it was carried in the New South Wales House of Assembly by all members. The exception, clause 4, dealt with the Menindee Lakes in respect of which some opposition members in that Parliament were critical of the fact that Menindee Lakes had been brought under control of the River Murray Commission. But this is an aspect which adds a great deal, both in water and in flow factor, if required, and would be of particular benefit to South Australia. The way that this matter was dealt with by the New South Wales Parliament is particularly interesting. I wonder what the position of New South Wales Labor senators will be on this measure when a vote is taken on it in this place. 
But let us come back to the investigations agreed to by the River Murray Commission and the assumptions that were used. I mentioned earlier that these were agreed to, that some 260 studies were made, many of them being made by computer, as against 13 studies only in respect of the original Chowilla concept. The Opposition questioned me on these assumptions.  Senator Toohey  has said tonight that he questioned them and he used the expression 'allegedly* in respect of the amount of water that would be available from Dartmouth.  Senator Bishop  questioned whether South Australia would get so much water from Dartmouth. But I remind the Senate that there was no criticism or condemnation of the assessments at the time they were made, nor was there any criticism of the technical advisers. If honourable senators opposite had any doubts, that would have been the time to express those doubts. I go further and ask: If they question these assessments, are they questioning the ability or the integrity of the experts who made the assessments and conducted the investigations? 
If there is doubt about the accuracy of the assessments the ability and integrity of these experts must be in doubt. These are responsible men. They are experienced and capable and have been able to come out with accurate assessments fairly based on fair assumptions. The investigations revealed many things. Even though they revealed many things that did not come to light in respect of Chowilla, because of the few investigations made of Chowilla, I do not condemn any of the investigations of Chowilla because they were carried out prior to the assistance of computers being available. So there is a big difference in this respect. Nevertheless, the important point revealed in respect of the Dartmouth Dam was that it would yield an additional 860,000 acre feet of water over and above that which we could get from the Chowilla concept. 
Before South Australia's Premier  Mr Hall  agreed to the Dartmouth Dam being built he fought for South Australia's interests and said: 'If there is this extra water in the dam we want our fair share of it for South Australia.' After wrangling with the other partners in the River Murray Commission he was able to obtain an additional 250,000 acre feet of water, which would give South Australia an entitlement of H million acre feet. I add at this point that South Australia's entitlement under the Chowilla concept was 1.254 million acre feet, which was exactly the same as South Australia's entitlement in 1905. Since that time there had been no change, despite the fact that there had been such a great increase in demand for water in South Australia. But referring again to the additional 250,000 acre feet of water that  Mr Hall  managed to get for South Australia, it should be pointed out that in real terms of usable water this increase amounts to an extra volume of water of some 37%. This is a tremendous gain for South Australia and a real asset precious to the State of South Australia which relies upon the river system for so much of its water. So instead of condemnation all praise and credit should be given to  Mr Hall  for managing to get South Australia a greater benefit from the Dartmouth project. He was able to get this benefit before agreeing to the Dartmouth project. That is what I call leadership. 
There has been criticism of the fact that Dartmouth is so far from South Australia compared with Chowilla which is in South Australia, and it has been suggested that it will take 6 weeks for water to flow from Dartmouth to South Australia. Let me make it clear that Chowilla is not in South Australia; it is in Victoria and New South Wales. But let us go further than this. Wherever the storages are on the River Murray system they are not owned by any one State. These storages and the whole river system from Albury right down the river are owned and controlled by the River Murray Commission. So let us not talk about our own dam. When it comes to control, as I mentioned earlier tonight, can any honourable senator opposite tell me of any occasion when the River Murray Commission has not been fair in allocating an entitlement or quota to South Australia in times of restriction? If any honourable senator is able to tell us of such an occasion I would like to hear of it. We have been talking about flow factors and Dartmouth being so far away, but right in the centre of where Chowilla Dam would have been we have Lake Victoria with 550,000 acre feet of water. So if by some freak of mismanagement we need water in a hurry, we have it available in Lake Victoria. This water can be used for flushing the river and also for those things in respect of which honourable senators opposite have questioned the use of water from Dartmouth. I do not doubt for a moment that Dartmouth will provide water for the purposes for which it is needed, but we have an additional safety factor with Lake Victoria which is under the control of the River Murray Commission. That lake is right alongside South Australia. 
With regard to the security of South Australia's entitlement, I have the utmost confidence in the River Murray Commission. lt has been and it will continue to be a responsible body. I can find no instance where, as a South Australian, I could be critical of the conduct of the River Murray Commission. But I should mention also that  Mr Floyd  in the Victorian House, in speaking of the River Murray Commission, said: 
The River Murray Commission has done an excellent job over the years. The Agreement came into being in 19 IS and it has been altered only slightly since because of the general realisation that the waters of the River Murray must bc fairly shared amongst the States. 
This statement was made by a leading Labor speaker from one of the States. He expressed full support for and confidence in the conduct of the RMC. South Australia's entitlement is  li  million acre feet, (t is interesting to note that South Australia's entitlement is deducted before water is supplied for normal usage by Victoria, which has an entitlement of 1.6 million acre feet, and New South Wales, which has an entitlement of 1.3 million acre feet. The argument that South Australia may miss out is completely illfounded and entirely incorrect. 
Much has been said about restrictions and the insecure position of South Australia if restrictions are to be applied. Let us look at what takes place when restrictions are applied. Before any restrictions can be applied by the River Murray Commission all parties to the Commission, including South Australia, must agree to them. This affords South Australia protection. But before any restrictions are applied 564,000 acre feet must be deducated for South Australia to provide the dilution water or flow factor. The remaining volume of water in the system after this is shared equally between Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales. An interesting point which gives much confidence to the concept of Dartmouth is the realisation that calculations show that in the last 65 years - since 1905 - if Dartmouth had been in existence New South Wales would have had restrictions on the use of water from the River Murray system 6 times and Victoria 7 times. In that period New South Wales would have had a reduction of up to 10% applied to its entitlement of water on 4 occasions; on one occasion a reduction of between 10% and 20% would have applied; and on one other occasion a reduction in excess of 20% would have been imposed. Victoria would have restrictions once up to 10%, twice between 10% and 20% and four times in excess of 20%. During the same time under the Dartmouth project South Australia would have been restricted only once. It would have been a 5% reduction which, based on a 1.5 million acre feet entitlement, would have been a reduction of some 76,000 acre feet of water. Regardless of the one restriction in 1965 South Australia would still have been left with a quota of 1.424 million acre feet, which is still far in excess of what its entitlement would have been under the Chowilla project, which was only 1.25 million acre feet. It is quite clear that, even with the 1-year restriction which we would have had with Dartmouth, we would have been far better off in that year with Dartmouth than with Chowilla. Clearly Dartmouth has more to offer in the way of water volume and security. 
These facts indicate very clearly that Dartmouth will provide greater gains to South Australia. Nevertheless, I support the idea of conducting further investigations into the whole river system and hope that Chowilla will one day be built. I came into this place a very keen and ardent supporter of Chowilla. I had discussions with the experts - not the politicians - and, having investigated the merits of each project with these experts, listened to their facts and examined their figures, I am now convinced that, as a South Australian, in order to do the right thing by my State I have no alternative but to support the Dartmouth concept and to make sure that South Australia gets its full and just water entitlement. Hence I have come out in support of Dartmouth. 
I criticise the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Drury  on behalf of the Opposition. The Opposition is adopting delaying tactics. As I have said, South Australia needs more water, but it needs more water as soon as it can possibly get it. What is the Opposition trying to achieve with the amendment it has put forward tonight? All it will achieve will be a deferment of the Dartmouth project until further investigations are carried out. Eventually a start will he made on the dam. In the meantime South Australia will have to wait for more water. A lot has been said in the River Murray region of the merit of the Chowilla proposal as against the Dartmouth proposal. I wish to remind honourable senators that earlier this year Region 5 of the Murray Valley Development League, which represents all councils of the Upper Murray region in South Australia from the Victorian border to Morgan, including the Loxton irrigation area, passed the following resolution: 
That this regional committee of the Murray Valley Development League, Region 5, supports immediate ratification of the Dartmouth project. 
Subsequent to the agreement lo complete the Dartmouth dum and its ratification by Parliament, the League do urge a campaign for an intensive investigation of Chowilla and any other River Murray conservation proposals for national development. 
I support the legislation which is before the Senate. 
In listening to this debate one point that has concerned me greatly has been the criticism and condemnation of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which was set up as a non-statutory body by the wool industry of Australia. The wording of the Labor Party's matter of urgency is as follows: 
The desirability of maintaining an embargo on the export of merino rams until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
I will deal firstly with the phrase 'other fair means'. This relates directly to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I repeat that it concerns me greatly to see this responsible body being denigrated and its image being completely killed because of the crude application of politics by some politicians in this place. . 
Since the beginning o£ the wool industry the growers have made every endeavour to get together as a single, united body and to speak with one voice. They succeeded in doing this a few years ago. They having succeeded in doing this and the Australian Wool Industry Conference having accepted responsibility and being recognised by the Government as a responsible body, we find that the Opposition is now prepared, to suit its own cheap political purposes, to denigrate the Conference. This afternoon  Senator O'Byrne  made many mis-statements. He also has a very short memory. A long time ago he condemned the Government over the wool selling proposal. It went to a referendum, which was lost because a majority of the growers in this country voted against a change in our marketing system. 
I remind  Senator O'Byrne  and other members of the Opposition that on that occasion the Opposition saw fit - I presume because of political ambition and not because of responsibility - to support right down the line the decisions and recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. But because of a belief that circumstances and political climates have changed, today we find that same Opposition turning around and criticising and condemning the Conference. If the Conference is destroyed or if its effectiveness is impaired because of the politics that have been brought into this matter by members of the Opposition, they will stand condemned by the wool industry whose virtues and policies they are supposedly standing up for and propounding today. I suggest that if they want to assist the woori industry they should get behind the very organisation that the industry itself has created, supported and given the recognition it deserves, and let it get on with the job that it wants to do for its industry. 
This afternoon  Senator O'Byrne  went so far as to condemn the influence of  Mr Bill  Vines as a member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Let me say that his statement was entirely incorrect.  Mr Vines  has never been a member of the Conference. He was the Managing Director of the International Wool Secretariat. He is a man who today is recognised and thanked by the Conference and wool growers for what he did and is still doing for the wool industry, particularly by his efforts in the International Wool Secretariat. So I correct that mis-statement by  Senator O'Byrne. 

 Senator O'Byrne also said that the wool industry was facing a crisis, that grower meetings were being held everywhere and that more and more meetings would be held because of the problems facing the industry. I remind both him and the Opposition generally that today members of the 2 Federal organisations concerned are meeting in Sydney and dealing with wool matters and that this week they will be meeting as members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I presume from remarks made by members of the Opposition that they regard these people as irresponsible men and men not worthy of being recognised as being associated in any way with the Conference. 
When members of the Opposition denigrate the Australian Wool Industry Conference they denigrate the members of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. Let me go a little further in referring to the structure of the Conference. Criticisms have been made by the Opposition with regard to the Conference itself and its very structure. This afternoon  Senator Wilkinson  said that members of the Farmers Union of Western Australia are not members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference because members of the Conference are appointed by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. I remind him that 5 Western Australians are elected as representatives of the Farmers Union of Western Australia. 
They are elected as members of the Farmers Union of Western Australia. They then go to the Federal Conference of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and there they are automatically made members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. If any of those West Australians are not accepted by their fellow members of the Farmers Union, those members have the right, every year at the annual meeting, to elect somebody else for appointment to the Australian Wool Industry Conference by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. Any member of a branch in Western Australia or any other Stale, if he is good enough, is able to go through as a branch or zone representative to the State Conference. If he is good enough and is accepted by the delegates for the whole of the State at the State Conference, he is appointed as a member of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. As a representative of his State, he goes to the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation where, because he has been elected by his State, he almost automatically becomes a member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. So members of the Opposition can split hairs if they want to; but in splitting hairs they are distorting facts and not giving facts. 
I was a foundation member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I am proud to have been a member of that Conference. I will be prouder still in the future because of what it will contribute to and do for Ihe wool industry. 1 only hope that it will survive the politics that are- being thrown into its midst al the present time by members of the Opposition. I will rue the day if ever we, as a wool industry, do not have a single spokesman, as we have in the Australian Wool Industry Conference. lt has accepted its responsibilities and is continuing lo accept them. As 1 said, it is meeting at the present time and is dealing with the wool industry in a responsible manner. I shall not deal with the referendum because  Senator Drake-  Brockman dealt very fully with it. There are many points there in respect of which complications and problems could arise. 
I turn now to a couple of criticisms which were made by  Senator McManus  this afternoon and in regard to which I believe he may not be quite clear on the facts. It is unusual to see him condemning or criticising unfairly. I say that in fairness to him. He was critical of the Government for, as he put it. deferring any lifting of the ban until after the election. That is not true. It may have appeared that way; but when voices in certain sections of the community were raised against the lifting of the ban the Government said: 'We will hold this until these people have had an opportunity to go to the Australian Wool Industry Conference and raise their objections'. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting this evening I was dealing with some of the criticisms which had been levelled at the Government for deferring the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams. I want to refute the statement that the Government asked the Australian Wool Industry Conference to reconsider the whole matter of the lifting of the embargo. This  is  not correct. The story is that when some objections were raised the Government delayed the lifting of the ban to give those people who objected the chance to air their objections with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I think it is very interesting to note that after 10 months the Executive of the Australian Wool Industry Conference received no approaches from the federal wool grower bodies, which composed the Australian Wool Industry Conference itself, about altering the previous decision taken by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. One group came to the executive of the Conference with certain comments. This group was invited to bring forward written submissions and give these to the Executive. But this group did not report with a written report to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 1 want to repeat again that the Australian Wool Industry. Conference is a very responsible body. Here again I think it is shown very clearly that it has acted responsibly. 
I doubt very much that it has because the Opposition wishes to refer to the decisions of the AWIC only when it suits its own political needs. 
No. I think, in fairness to  Senator McManus,  he was not armed with the full facts of the case. I want to repeat that 10 months elapsed from the time of the original decision of the AWIC. During that time there was plenty of opportunity for any persons or any organisations to come to that body and put their facts before the Executive if they were opposed to the decision. Nothing was done. 
The Senate has heard a lot about cert air organisations opposed to the lifting of the ban. I want to make it clear to this place that I was present at the United Farmers and Graziers Wool Section Conference of South Australia this year. Two resolutions were passed dealing with the embargo on merino rams. Both of these resolutions condemned the trade union movement of Australia for refusing to ship the merino rams. They were the only 2 resolutions on the embargo that were debated by a very responsible body at this State conference. I think this shows clearly that logic and responsibility are still being applied by the wool grower organisations. 
Fears have been expressed about the great number of merino rams that would be sold by Australia to overseas countries if those countries had the opportunity to buy. This afternoon the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  dealt with various measures and restrictions that would apply to the embargo. But at the Sydney sales which took place in February this year 287 stud merino rams were offered for sale, of which 196 were sold. Of the 196 sold only 47 were sold to overseas buyers. Of the 30 poll merino rams offered for sale 9 were sold, but none was sold to overseas buyers. The stud merino rams grossed $304,950, with an average price of $1,556. The top price paid by an Australian stud for a ram was $16,000. In respect of the overseas purchases the gross receipts were in the vicinity of $116,000 with an average price of $2,480. The top price paid was $12,500. Firstly, where were the great numbers of rams which were going to be sold from this country? The overseas buyers bought only a few. Secondly, where were these fictitious prices which the Opposition has been talking about for so long? 
 I have listened to  Senator Drury  and  Senator Bishop  speaking on this further amendment. The first amendment was designed to take away all the control and power of the River Murray Commission because it was proposed, basically, to vest all the powers in a national water conservation and constructing authority. I remind members of the Opposition that that amendment would have taken away much of the power of South Australia. 
In the second amendment the Opposition proposes to take away the time factor. We are all very conscious of the fact that South Australia not only needs more water but also needs it as soon as it can get it. This second amendment is purely a delaying tactic, lt states:   . . the Senate is of opinion that the Agreement should not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed. 
Ft is necessary lo go back and look al what the attitude of the Opposition has been during this controversy over the 2 dams and further water storages on the River Murray itself. Ever since the presentation of the report of the River Murray Commission, in which the Commission came down in favour of Dartmouth, we have seen a great shifting of ground by members of the Opposition. Firstly they said that we must have Chowilla and nothing else: that it must be Chowilla at all costs. They were not prepared to accept the report of responsible men. Later on, for reasons best known to themselves, they adopted a second attitude. They said: 'We are now quite happy; we will go along with the proposal that we have a 2-dam concept. Let us build both Chowilla and Dartmouth'. Then they shifted ground again. They said: 'Perhaps we should support a proposal for further computer studies on a combination of both Chowilla and Dartmouth'. That is the proposal that we have before us now. 1 ask members of the Opposition why all this shifting of ground is taking place. I mentioned the other night, when I spoke on this issue, that they had the opportunity, through the man who was Premier of South Australia al the time, to oppose any investigations of any alternative storages on the River Murray in October 1967 if they were so sure that Chowilla was the best and only dam they were prepared to support in the interests of South Australia. 1 repeat - I ask members of the Opposition to tell me so if I am wrong - that I cannot find any record of their objecting either to the investigations of the alternatives or to the assumptions that were to be used in those investigations. 1 ask members of the Opposition at this moment, if they did oppose the investigation at any time or if they can recall  Mr Dunstan  opposing it at any time, to please fell me. I am very interested to find out whether they did object. I cannot find any record of any objection. 
Let me go further than that. The nian who advised  Mr Dunstan  at that time was the Engineer-in-Chief of the Engineering and Water Supply Department. He was advising  Mr Dunstan  and working under  Mr Dunstan's  instructions. He is still the Engineer-in-Chief today. He, with his responsible officers, has given advice to the present Premier,  Mr Hall,  who is prepared to accept their advice. Why do members of the Opposition now suddenly question the ability of this man who is the EngineerinChief? I say that they are questioning his ability. Why are they placing him in such an invidious position? He is a responsible man and has acted very responsibly in his position. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Bull)Order!  In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of ihe Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chai, and report lo ihe. Senate. 1 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly) 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Before this debate was interrupted last night I referred to the amendment moved by the Opposition. I pointed out that members of the Opposition had shifted ground on many occasions. First of all they were all for Chowilla and nothing else. Then they decided that they would prefer a 2-dam concept with both Chowilla and Dartmouth. Now, in the amendment that is now before the Committee they are proposing that further computer studies be made with regard to the 2 dams. If they were satisfied with Chowilla and its entitlement to South Australia of l j million acre-feet of water and if they supported Chowilla for some time after the River Murray Commission made its report, why did not they say then that South Australia needed 2 dams - both Chowilla and Dartmouth? 
Have they just suddenly decided that South Australia needs more water? Originally they were satisfied with Chowilla and an entitlement to South Australia of I  k  million acre-feet. If they have decided that South Australia wants more water, that is exactly what the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Hall,  fought for and won under the Dartmouth agreement. He succeeded in getting a further 250,000 acre-feet, thus giving South Australia an entitlement of l i million acre-feet, which means in real terms that the State will receive a 37% increase in usable water. I just wonder what the Opposition really wants. 
As to the suggestion in the amendment for further computer studies, the report of the River Murray Commission shows very clearly that whether the Chowilla Dam were built to a capacity of 3 million acre feet or 5 million acre feet, there would be very little difference in its yield, which in either case would be about 250,000 acre feet. This is what it would add to the whole river system, lt is interesting to note that when Dartmouth is built South Australia will be getting an extra 250,000 acre feet of water which would be the total yield of the Chowilla dam. 
 We will get from Dartmouth a greater increase of water in a drought year than we would get from Chowilla.  Senator Ridley  knows this quite well because he knows that the basis of the Agreement is that South Australia shares equally with the other two partner States. Let me remind  Senator Ridley  of the studies which have shown that if Dartmouth had been in operation South Australia would have had 1 year of restriction, whereas if Chowilla dam had been in operation South 
Australia would have suffered 3 years of restrictions. Even in that  1  restricted year with Dartmouth in operation South Australia would have received 1.4 million acre feet of water, which would still be more than that State would have received under the old arrangement involving the building of the Chowilla dam. So even in that  1  year of restriction South Australia would have been a good deal better off. South Australia will now have equal sharing and it will also have security, lt appears that honourable senators opposite are not prepared to take the word of responsible men who have ability and experience and who have looked at this position very closely. It seems to me that what they are saying is: 'We very much doubt the ability and the integrity of these men'. After all, these experts have made definite statements and I for one accept the statements of experts. 
I want to quote portion of the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
Some studies were made of combinations of storages at Dartmouth and Chowilla, but these were obviously much less attractive than a single Storage at Dartmouth and were not pursued. Chowilla built after Dartmouth would add about 250,000 acre feet to the available water. A storage of 2 million acre feet at Dartmouth combined with a 3 million acre feet storage at Chowilla would provide an additional yield not more than 15% greater than provided by a 3 million acre feet storage at Dartmouth alone. 
It is obvious that there will not be a great gain if we build Chowilla at the same time as we build Dartmouth. I say quite emphatically that I, as a South Australian, am very concerned about that State's water entitlement and the security of that entitlement. But let me go further. The Opposition suggests in the amendment that we build both dams at the same time, and it has also adopted a delaying tactic by suggesting that we make evaluations and further computer studies. If this amendment is accepted it will mean simply a delay in the provision of extra water for South Australia. 
 Yes, but the amendment asks for more computer studies. That is the point. If we build both dams at the same time we are going to have an interest burden of some 53,500.000. It would be a very brave man who would be prepared to say emphatically that we need both dams immediately. The experts have said we do not need them at the present time and I will accept the word of those experts. But let me return to this $3,500,000 interest burden which would have to be met if we decided to build both dams at the same time. I suggest that we start looking to priorities. In Eyre Peninsula in South Australia a pipeline is being provided under what we know as the Polda-Kimba scheme. The project is not as yet completed because of lack of finance. Through the summer period the people have been carting water to the township of Kimba. I an assure you,  Sir, and  Opposition senators that if priorities are to come into consideration on the question of where money should be spent at this stage to meet the needs and requirements of South Australia, then the people on the west coast would tell you very clearly where they consider this additional money should be spent. 
I support that too because there are other priorities in our State which must be looked at in the immediate future, particularly when we consider the kind of things that I have mentioned - the lack of water and the absence of reticulation to townships like Kimba and the properties surrounding it. They are desperately in need of water. Two years ago the whole district was almost out of water. The people were carting water by train even for stock. This year they have been carting water to the townships. There are trunk lines in the Eyre Peninsula which also need attention. We have to look fairly and squarely at priorities when we start talking water and when we are considering amendments such as those proposed by the Opposition which, as  1  have said, I believe are designed, firstly, to delay the project, and secondly, to increase the cost factor before an additional dam is really needed. I support the Opposition as I would support anyone who believes that further investigations must be made for future storages on the Murray system. I too hope that the next dam to be built for storage will be the Chowilla Dam. However, we must look at this clearly in the light of what should be done and list our priorities accordingly. 
Strangely enough, we are dealing with an amendment which refers to a 2-dam concept and further evaluations of the proposal.  1  do not know whether the Opposition, particularly representatives from 
South Australia, are aware of a Press article which [ noticed in an Adelaide newspaper on Thursday last 16th April under the heading, 'Change seen in Labor stand'. The article states: 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Dunstan)  has now stated quite clearly that Labor agrees that Dartmouth should be built first. Earlier the impression had gained ground that Labor was firmly wedded to the proposal to build both dams at once. 
At the present time we are debating in this chamber an amendment which takes in a 2-dam concept although the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia has said very clearly to the Press that he supports Dartmouth at this stage. He has also said that he wants to see Chowilla built. The Premier of South Australia has made very clear that he has supported Dartmouth because of the greater gain to be obtained from Dartmouth in the immediate future. He has made it equally clear that he will support and do all that he can to have further investigations carried out on the whole river system to look at future storages. In addition he has said that he hopes that Chowilla will be the next storage constructed. 
I can do no other than oppose this amendment for the reason that I, as a South Australian and a representative of that State, believe that my responsibilities lie in getting the maximum supply of water for South Australia with the greatest security, coupled with an urgency to have the dam built so that water will be available as soon as possible. The proposed amendment will only further delay the project. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) 14.91 - I rise for the first time in this debate. I did nol want to enter it because of the capabilities of my colleagues from South Australia who can put the case adequately. However 1 am concerned about the statements which have been made by honourable senators on the Government side, particularly  Senator Young.  I am reminded that at question time today  Senator Wright,  who represents the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  was asked to inquire into whether action could be taken in relation to untruthful statements that were made in this chamber. A great deal of gaol punishment is awaiting some honourable senators if the Attorney-General finds that he has the power to take such action. 
I agree with  Senator Young  that we must consider priorities in the expenditure of money. He has referred to the need for a water supply to the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. The provision of a water supply to that area is more important to the people there than the question of whether we build the Chowilla Dam. I remind the honourable senators that there is an acute shortage of water at Eyre Peninsula, which relies solely on the Tod River and the Polda Basin for its supply. This supply is being exploited to the utmost at present and there is still insufficient water to supply many of the towns in the Eyre Peninsula. Water is necessary in this area. Kimba is without a water supply. Water from the River Murray has to be carted to it from Iron Knob. Unless this supply of water at Iron Knob is assured large sections of the Eyre Peninsula will be without water and areas which are productive at present will become unproductive. The future of the Eyre Peninsula's water supply depends upon the ability to link the mains which extend almost into Kimba with the waters of the River Murray received at Iron Knob. Therefore, the Chowilla proposal is of interest to more than just the citrus fruit growers along the river. 
Between 85% and 95% of South Australia's water supply is dependent upon the River Murray. The river is the source of water for not only those people who live along its banks but also the industrial expansion which is taking place at present at Whyalla and Iron Knob. No-one can deny that if the Darmouth proposal is proceeded with South Australia will be guaranteed an additional supply of water, but it will be provided only during the period when we do not want the water. In some years there is no shortage of water in South Australia because 8.5 million acre feet of water runs into the sea. At present the River Murray Commission cannot supply the 1.25 million acre feet of water to which South Australia is entitled under the existing agreement. It is in respect of periods of drought, when the Commission is unable to supply the 1.25 million acre feet to which we are entitled, that we are complaining. 
The guarantee of an extra 0.25 million acre feet of water is of no value to South Australia unless it can be provided on the occasions when it is needed or can be held for use in a period when it is needed. It is therefore thought that South Australia should have a dam within its borders so that it can hold water for use during drought periods. I think it was stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in this chamber, that there were periods last year during which whole areas were made unproductive as overhead sprinklers could not be used on the citrus fruits because of the saline content of the water. Whilst an increased water supply is guaranteed to South Australia from the Dartmouth project it should be remembered that we must take our quota month by month. During the winter months when we do not want as much water as we require in the summer River Murray water runs into the sea. During the summer months when we do want water we will get our quota if it is available, but if it is not available we will get only onethird of what is available. 
The main danger to South Australia is that the extra water which is available to New South Wales and Victoria will be used for irrigation purposes. Both States are agreeing to the proposed amendment to the Agreement because it will give them additional water to use for irrigation purposes. The saline content in the water is due to seepage from irrigation and re-use of the water. While additional water will be available during the period when we do not want it, in a period of short supply, as  Senator Ridley  has indicated, we will get only sufficient to assure the supply of 900 cusecs of water to Mildura in order that Victoria will be getting at all times a pure water supply. South Australia will be left with the saline water which is left over. We submit that it is inevitable that as more water is used the saline content will increase. But if we had a reservoir of the capacity of Chowilla as proposed for the purpose of storing water when it is available in times of heavy flow such as in the winter months when we are getting nearly pure water, this water would be sufficiently pure to mix with the salt slugs that we get during a period of low water supply. 
My main purpose in entering this debate is to correct the impression that some would try to give that there was some sell out by Don Dunstan'* Labor Government on this issue of Chowilla. The construction of the dam was envisaged by the Playford Government. It was supported by the succeeding Labor Government but in 1967, when it was understood that the cost of Chowilla would rise tremendously, a request came from Victoria and New South Wales for a computer study. The Labor Government was still adamant on the question of Chowilla, but due to the increase in cost and with the hope of going to arbitration as it was entitled to do under the rules of the River Murray Commission it could not refuse the computer studies which the other States were insisting upon, believing that whatever the computer studies might show, because of the sacrifice that South Australia made in giving certain water rights away at the time of the building of the Snowy Mountains scheme, there was an obligation to honour the promise of a storage in South Australia. So Don Dunstan agreed at that time, together wilh the Liberal Party Opposition in South Australia, to defer the construction of Chowilla until such time as they had the computer studies which were demanded by the other States. When the computer study had been made the Dunstan Government in 1968 instructed its representative on the River Murray Commission to oppose any further deferments for the sole purpose of forcing the issue to arbitration. 
Under the rules of the River Murray Commission if the parties cannot agree the matter has to be adjudicated upon by a judge of the Supreme  Court of.  Tasmania. lt was for the sole purpose of getting this adjudication that South Australia sought a disagreement. The Labor Government wanted to force a disagreement and so submit the matter to arbitration. An election was held in 1968 and although Labor received a majority of votes it did not form the Government and the Hall Government reversed the instructions given to South Australia's representative on the River Murray Commission and agreed to the proposal for the building of the Dartmouth Dam. Therefore any chance that South Australia had under this agreement to go to arbitration on this question was taken away by the Hall Government. 
Would they have arbitrated purely on Chowilla's11/4 million acre feet or purely on Dartmouth's11/2 million acre feet? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the reports in this morning's Press of the unanimous decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference with regard to wool marketing. Will the Government accept the views and decisions of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on wool marketing as those of a responsible wool grower today, or will it be like the Opposition and show a preference for the views of splinter groups that have no State affiliations? 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General say when a television station will be built in Upper Eyre Peninsula to serve areas of South Australia there? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. As the Hall Government in South Australia was defeated by the State Opposition supporting an amendment proposing the  building of both the Dartmouth and Chowilla Dams simultaneously, and as the Commonwealth and other partners of the River Murray Commission have ratified the agreement for the building of the Dartmouth Dam, would such a policy of supporting the building of both dams simultaneously endanger the early building of the Dartmouth Dam and an increased supply of water to South Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry seen an Article relating to the commercial progress of substitute and synthetic foods as an alternative to or substitute for meat. Is it not a fact that there are substitute steaks, chicken, bacon and even prawns on the American market and that patents have been taken out for the production of synthetic meats from mineral oil. As these substitute and synthetic meats are a real threat to the meat industry of Australia, will the Minister take steps to see that no production licences for these so-called meats are issued in Australia. Will he also ban the importation of any of these products into Australia so that Australian meat producers will be protected. 
The first comment I wish to make is that I am very disappointed that this urgency motion was introduced wilh so little notice being given to us on this side of the chamber to enable us to prepare material for such an important debate as this. As  Senator Marriott  said, the lack of notice may have been due to the fog in Canberra this morning, which may have meant that  Senator Wriedt  was not able to arrive in Canberra in time to give us sufficient notice. I participate in this debate not as a Tasmanian but as one who has been closely associated with shipping and the introduction of containerisation. Well before containerisation became a reality in transportation from Australia to other areas, I was closely associated with and particularly interested in shipping, including Tasmanian shipping services. I would like to have had time this afternoon to obtain figures with regard to the services and the tonnage movements from Tasmania to overseas ports. But, unfortunately, I was unable to obtain them because there was not time to make the necessary arrangements. 
To my knowledge  Senator Wriedt  did not give any specific figures to illustrate the problems associated with Tasmanian shipping services; rather did he make general statements. 1 could be incorrect in making that comment, but my understanding is that no specific figures were given. I would have liked some specific figures because I could  relate them to pertinent figures with regard to Tasmanian services prior to the introduction of containerisation. As a member . of the old Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee, which dealt with all aspects of freights, tonnages and problems involved in the export of Australian goods particularly to the United Kingdom and the Continent, I can say that that Committee dealt fairly with the States as a national committee and recognised the rights of Tasmania equally with those of any other State of the Commonwealth including my own Stale of South Australia. 
A few minutes ago  Senator Lacey  referred to the fact that . certain recommendations had been made with regard to the problems of Tasmania. He spoke of the Federal Government in a rather condemnatory manner. Let me say that the Federal Government recognised the responsibility of the Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee which has now gone out of existence but which prior to containerisation was the responsible negotiating body between the shipper - in other words, the exporter - and the shipowner. To my knowledge no evidence has come forward from Tasmania with regard to the problems of that State. I wish to say to  Senator Lacey,  through you,  Mr President,  that we as a committee were very much aware of the problems associated with not only Tasmania but all the States of the Commonwealth, and we did our utmost to make sure that the shipper section of this country was protected as effectively as the efficiency of that committee allowed it to be. 
The whole of this debate this afternoon and this evening is related to the concept of containerisation itself. 
If the problems existed before containerisation, why did not members of the Australian Labor Party raise them before? They should have recognised that there was a responsible committee in Australia for a long time. They should have brought the problems before that Committee. They have now seen fit to introduce this urgency motion, which is related directly to the introduction of containerisation and the fact that Tasmania does not have a direct link in the form of a terminal port under the concept of containerisation.  As  a South Australian, I point out that my own State does not have a terminal port. But, as an Australian, I recognise thai if we are to curtail increases in freight rates, and hopefully to reduce them, we must look at this matter on a national basis and do all we can to make sure that efficiency in the transportation of our exports will be our ultimate aim, no matter from what State we come. 
One of the main aspects of containerisation is the quick turnround of ships. We have seen the sophisticated method of loading and unloading ships with cranes that are specially designed to deal only with containers. The containers themselves are big boxes which are prepacked, loaded quickly into a ship and unloaded quickly from a ship so that the ship is not in port for long and can turn around quickly. That is one aspect of containerisation. But in order to get the most out of containerisation it is also necessary to have as few terminal ports as possible. Hence today we have only 3 terminal ports in Australia, namely, Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle in Western Australia because of its geographical position. 
Basically, as I understand it, the deciding factor in determining whether a port should be classified as a terminal port is the throughput of cargo. The requirement is in the vicinity of I million tons of input and output. My own port - port Adelaide - regrettably does nol measure up to the 1 million ton throughput. Nevertheless we have accepted containerisation because of the benefits that it will bring on a national level. As I said, we have the 3 terminal ports. Consequently we have 3 States - Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania - that are serviced through feeder ports. There are some problems and queries with regard to these feeder ports. As a South Australian, I am still hopeful that this arrangement will work out; but in some ways I question whether in the long term there will be equality of freights, because at the present time we have a gentlemen's agreement and not a written agreement. 
I wish to emphasise this because under the old formula and with the Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee there was uniformity of freights irrespective of the Australian port concerned. Today with containerisation we still have uniformity of freight rates throughout Aus tralia, even though they may be subject to a gentleman's or verbal agreement. The one thing I want to emphasise is that in the first year of containerisation we had a standstill in freight rates - again an agreement between the shipper groups and the shipowner groups. In the second year of containerisation, for the first time in many years, we have seen a downturn in freight rates of 4% in general or, as it is termed, dry cargo, and a 2i% reduction in refrigerated cargo, lt has been a long time since we have seen a downturn in freights. I want to emphasise that these freight reductions have applied to all States and not just the States with a terminal port but also to the feeder States, including Tasmania. 
Until 1967 we had seen freight rates increasing at such an alarming rate that the Government, along with the ship owner groups, looked to other modes of transport in an effort at least to check freight rates to counter this great problem which faced us as an island state, an exporting state so far from our markets. So the concept of containerisation was introduced in Australian trade to the United Kingdom. Even though there has been criticism tonight of this urgency motion moved by the Opposition I want again to emphasise that we have seen freight reductions of 4% and  21%  with the introduction of containerisation. Even though the efficiency and effectiveness of containerisation may be questioned, and even though Tasmania at this stage may be served by conventional shipping and by the old type of refrigerated shipping, it has benefited along with South Australia and the other feeder States, as have the terminal States, from the introduction of containerisation. This is- possibly due to such things as fewer ships, more efficiency, quicker turnround and rationalisation, as it is termed. All of these things have brought benefits to us as a nation. ! can sympathise with Tasmania, perhaps in a parochial sense, as a South Australian, with regard to containerisation because the container ships do not call directly to the ports in my own State. 
In 1972 the Scandinavian countries will introduce on the Australian . run another 5 ships. They will not be container ships, unit load ships or Scandia ships, as they are called. They will be the roll-on roll-off type of ship. These are extremely flexible ships. 
They are the type of ships which do not require any sophisticated equipment on the wharf. They have their own ramp. They can pull into a wharf and they can unload and load at any port whatsoever as long as there are reasonable wharf facilities and depth of water. The Scandia type of ship, on the other hand, is the type of ship that can take either containers, the unit loads, or strap palletisation - as has been mentioned tonight - or general cargo. The ROR, that is the roll-on roll-off type of ship with which Tasmanians are particularly conversant, is the type of ship that is extremely flexible. With the build-up of tonnage on the United Kingdom run this type of ship - this is the only one to which I can refer on this aspect because the Scandias are coming in on this run - could bring benefits to States such as Tasmania and South Australia. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  has seen fit whilst overseas to make a statement that the Tasmanian container service will commence shortly and will bring with it the same benefits which the terminal States have, and the benefits that the mainland feeder States have. In other words, even though Tasmania has had the benefits of the efficiencies from the introduction of containerisation with the reduction in freight rates it will also have the added efficiencies of being able to containerise in Tasmania and bring the containers to the port of Melbourne at no extra cost to Tasmania. This cost factor is going to be averaged out with all the shipper interests, the exporter interests of Australia. Tasmania will directly receive the same benefits as the mainland States receive at present, be they terminal States or feeder States. I cannot see the necessity for  an  urgency debate tonight because the report of the Minister's statement was made prior to this urgency motion which was brought on this afternoon. 
Criticism of the Federal Government has been expressed by Tasmanian Opposition senators tonight. Prior to containerisation there was an exporters' group or a shipper group, the Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee. Since the introduction of containerisation there has  been a shipper group known as the Australia to Europe Shippers Association. This group is . representative of the major exporter groups of Australia irrespective of State. 
It represents all the exporter groups working in the interests of the exporters of this country. It has given very effective and efficient service to the exporters. When criticism is levelled at the Federal Government 1 would suggest that the Opposition look back into the background of our exports and relate its criticisms perhaps to another body and not . to the Australian Government, because this is  the body which has closely watched the interests of the groups it represents and, at the same time, has closely watched the activities of the shipping companies themselves to make sure that efficiency will be the dominant factor and that the benefits will be in the gains to the Australian exporters. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls the application and administration of the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act uniform throughout the Stales of Australia, in relation to the assessment of relatively high rental values of houses provided for workers on rural properties by property owners. 
Are rural workers being unfairly taxed on an unreal rental value of such housing: if so. will the Treasurer give consideration to exempting rural workers from this increased lax, which is  only another cost burden upon primary industry, and greatly reduces the incentive for workers to seek employment in the rural industry. 
 I had no intention of rising to speak on this Bill until I listened to the debate this afternoon and this evening. I was pleased to see  Senator Greenwood  given the opportunity to make a personal explanation and I would like to compliment  Senator Murphy  for his democratic approach and at the same time condemn  Senator Georges  for his undemocratic approach in again denying freedom of speech. The reason I come into this debate is that  Senator Cavanagh  this afternoon implied that  Senator Greenwood  and others went out of their way to provoke and incite violence in the Moratorium demonstrations held on 8th, 9th and 10th May. This was a complete and utter distortion of fact. Concern was felt by many honourable senators on this side of the chamber as well as  Senator Greenwood,  and also by members of the Democratic Labor Party, that violence might erupt, and it was thought that the people of Australia should have this fact pointed out to them, lt was thought that particularly those participating in the demonstration should be told that they must exercise complete restraint to make sure that people and property would not be endangered or damaged in any way. 

 Senator Cavanagh also said that there were some returned soldiers who interjected and tried to provoke some of the marchers in the Moratorium demonstration in Adelaide. This was reported in the Press. But why did these young men, wearing the returned soldier's ribbons of the Vietnam campaign, see fit to try to take away from some of the marchers Vietcong flags and other banners that indicated support for the Vietcong, the very enemy against whom these young men had been fighting? One young returned soldier said, according to the Press report: 'lt is all very well for these people to march down the streets carrying these banners and flags, but I have been up there. I have fought against the supporters of this flag. 1 have seen comrades shot by those supporters. Then I return to my own country and see people marching and shouting and carrying these flags and banners. Am 1 expected to stand here peacefully and see these people go by? I have seen bullets coming from people carrying these same flags in the country in which 1 served my own country of Australia'. So 1 pose the question again: Why did these young men see fit to provoke some of these marchers in the Moratorium demonstration? Probably all young people and a great bulk of the elderly people of this country would know the name of Normie Rowe. 
The honourable senator would not know him. I would not expect the honourable senator to know him because this young man - is a good Australian. Normie Rowe is one of the top pop singers in Australia, a young lad with a terrific future. He was in England getting right to the top of the entertainment world when he came back to this country. Whilst he was back here he was called up for service in the Army.  His  name came up in the ballot. I feel privileged and particularly proud to know Normie Rowe because 1 think he is one of the finest young Australians I will ever have the opportunity and privilege of knowing. This young man was willing to sacrifice his career in the entertainment world which is a very risky one. He was at the pinnacle or close to it and be went to serve in Vietnam. He has come home and he has nothing but praise for what his comrades have done in Vietnam and for the cause that the Australians, Americans and others are fighting for. 
He said: T wish that some of these people who protest could go and see the good' - I emphasise the word 'good' - 'that my comrades and others have done, not just for the cause of democracy in keeping a foreign enemy out of this country but in helping the reconstruction and development and the opportunity for freedom and advancement for these people.1 Here is a young man who has been willing and prepared to sacrifice not only his career but, if necessary, his life and when he comes back he is prepared to stand up and say these things. Not only has this young man said these things to me but also he has seen fit to tell the world. He has said this on television. He can feel proud of his service and we can feel proud of him and others like him who not only are very proud to have served this country but also are convinced that what they did was right. They are proud to tell the people of Australia that the cause for which they fought was right. 
But 1 want to go further. Much has been said about the Moratorium and the hundreds and hundreds of thousands who marched. I challenge the accuracy of that expression, which was used tonight by  Senator Wheeldon. Senator Cavanagh  referred to the great success in South Australia. Let us look at these figures factually and on an arithmetical basis. On Friday afternoon - they picked the time of 5 o'clock when they could do the utmost damage and inconvenience the most people - about 2,000 people marched. But it was announced on Friday night: 'Let us not worry about this. Tomorrow is the big day. This is when the numbers will be out. We are going to have 20,000 marching.' the next day they had 5,000. I had the good fortune to have the Saturday afternoon off and I went to a football match in a suburb at which there were 8,000 people. All that the Moratorium organisers could raise was 5,000 people. I do commend those who were in control of this march. 1 must say that in all fairness; I speak about Adelaide. There was some violence on the Friday. 
 I have mentioned that. But on the Saturday it was a peaceful demonstration. Even though 1 did not agree with the march I must commend those who were in charge for the control they had over any outbursts of violence. 
 That is the one sort of remark that 1 am not prepared to accept. Neither .1, nor any of my colleagues nor any fair, decent Australian would wish for any violence whatsover in any campaign of this kind. In regard to numbers we have heard from Sentaor Wheeldon a lot about these hundreds of thousands of people. I would like to refer to the meeting that was held in Canberra the other day. My estimate was that there were 300 to 400 people there. 1 also asked members of the Press and others how many they thought were there and many said that there could have been 300 or 400. Some sections of the Press came out with a figure of 1,500 to 2,000 which is something like 5 to 5i times more than were there. So one of these days I am expecting to pick up a newspaper and see that Australia's population stands not at around 12£ million but at about 62 million people. This would be the same distortion of facts. 
I believe the police estimates which differed slightly from the numbers given by the organisers of the Moratorium. Accepting the numbers that t the police have given in various areas all I want to say is this: 
When these numbers are tallied up and related to the population of - Australia it will be found that this Moratorium was a very, very minimal thing as far as numbers were concerned and would have been on a numerical basis a great disappointment to  Dr Cairns  and the other organisers. 1 make no bones about this because they did not get the numbers they expected. The tragedy of the Moratorium is that a great number of those who marched in many ways would have been innocent of the reasons why there was a Moratorium and a march. There were many people who were and are opposed to war. All of us are opposed to war. There were many school children. I asked school children who were wearing Moratorium badges why they were doing this and they said: 'Because 1 am opposed to war'. They could not go past this, and this is one of the tragedies. The Moratorium gained a lot of support from people who were innocent of many of the tragic facts of the Moratorium itself. Statements were made by the Communist leaders during the French occupation of Indo-China. Ho Chi Minh himself said: 'We will not have to win this war with a frontal military attack. We can play this along with guerilla warfare and other methods. We keep just pinpricking here and there all over the place and by subversive means we can win this war in Paris.' The same thing has been said about the Vietnam war: 'Let us not worry about frontal attacks. By subversive means we can win this war in Washington.' 
Now, what is this Moratorium doing in reality other than assisting the Communist cause of subverting the cause of freedom and democracy and the development of self-government in South Vietnam? This is the great tragedy that is taking place at the present time. We have heard so much from the Opposition and from some of the leaders and organisers of the Moratorium about the atrocities of the Vietnam war, the atrocities that are being committed by the Americans and by our troops. Have we once heard any comment about the atrocities committed by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese? Have we heard anything about the atrocities committed during the Tet offensive? Have we heard any comment about the atrocities committed during the invasion of Laos by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong? Have we heard any comment about the Vietcong trying to take over Cambodia? No, not a word. But the moment the Americans go into Cambodia there is a great outcry from the Opposition and screams of 'invasion', tragedy', 'atrocities'. What has been going on in Cambodia for a long time? How many deaths in South Vietnam were being caused by the foothold that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese had in Cambodia itself? How much longer would the war go on in Vietnam if the Vietcong were allowed to continue their invasion and domination of Cambodia? 
I know the honourable senator's sympathies so there is no need for him to express them now. We are very aware of them. 
Now, let us go further back. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Do any Australian States conduct their own aero-magnetic and seismic surveys in the exploration for hydro-carbons in their on-shore areas; if so, which States conduct (a) aero-magnetic surveys and (b) seismic surveys, and over what period of time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
What has been the total cost to the Commonwealth Government of the operations of the Bureau of Mineral Resources in the exploration for hydro-carbons in (a) the off-shore areas of Australia; and (b) the on-shore areas of Australia. 
What proportions of the amount spent on on-shore exploration were expended in each of the States in (a) acromagnetic surveys, and (b) seismic surveys. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As local government performs a very important and necessary function in our society and as councillors, in carrying out their responsibilities, incur certain expenses, will the Treasurer give consideration to the introduction of an income tax deduction or allowance for councillors to offset to some extent the financial contribution that they make for the benefit of the community in their areas? 
On 9th April I placed on the notice paper a question concerning over-border trading in wheat, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As this is a very important matter I ask the Minister: How long does he anticipate that I will have to wait before I receive a reply? 
I support the Bill. Before passing any other comment I commend the Treasurer (Mr Bury) for setting out so clearly details of the Bill in the memorandum that accompanied it. I hope that this practice will be continued in the future. It has been of great assistance in assessing all the details associated with the Bill. I congratulate the Government in continuing its move to make some concessions available in respect of the estates of deceased primary producers. As  Senator Byrne  said a few moments ago, it is unfortunate that primary industry has the problems that it is experiencing at present. The Government has found it necessary to make these concessions. I commend the Government for giving consideration to this area which has been a great problem for so long for those who are dependent on primary industry. The two main conditions attached to the Bill are that a deceased person's estate must have shown that at least 50% of the deceased person's income had been earned from primary industry and, secondly, that in excess of 50% of his estate consisted of property associated with rural industry. These are two very good points. They would exclude many investors who, over the years, had taken advantage of the general taxation provisions by entering the field of primary industry and development. 
In making concessions for primary industry the Government has endeavoured to define 'primary producer' to ensure that these concessions go to the area intended by the Government. At the same time the provision relating to a 5-year average with regard to primary producers incomes does create problems. As  Senator Byrne  has said - I agree with him - the dependants of a young person who might have been on the land for 2 or 3 years only would find it very difficult to claim that he was a primary producer who would qualify under the 5-year average provision. Alternatively, a person who perhaps had been developing a property and who had another source of income until he was on his feet might not qualify as a primary producer if he had happened to die at the wrong time. I believe that consideration should be given to that period of 5 years. Nevertheless, I repeat that it is pleasing to see that the Government has endeavoured to give a clear definition of a primary producer. 
One of the areas of relief is the 20% increase in the level of total exemption from $20,000 to $24,000 where the estate goes directly to a widow. This will give great assistance to families with small rural estates. But at the same time I wonder how many properties would come within this limit of $24,000. With today's values, if we consider the property, the stock and plant, on many occasions it would be a very small property to come within the $24,000 limit. I wonder how great an area will receive assistance from this provision. However, there is an additional area where there is partial rebate. The Treasurer said in his second reading speech: 
An outright exemption for eligible estates which pass wholly to the widow, children or grandchildren of the deceased person will apply where the value of the estate is $24,000 or less. For eligible estates which do not pass to such relatives, outright exemption will apply up to a value of $12,000. The present statutory exemptions are $20,000 and $10,000 respectively. For eligible estates of a value in excess of $24,000 passing wholly to the close relatives I have mentioned, the statutory exemption is to be reduced by $2 for each $8 by which the value is greater than $24,000, and thus will cut out completely at a value of $120,000. 
I think one of the major areas of relief is the partial rebate of duty which will apply to properties up to the value of $250,000. This provision will cover quite a large area. For an estate up to $140,000 there will be a rebate of 50% on that part of the duty which is attributable to the rural property, and where the value of an estate is greater than $140,000 but less than $250,000 the 50% rebate will be reduced by one-tenth of 1% for each $220 by which the value of the estate exceeds $140,000. This is a big reduction; it is 50% up to $140,000 and then there is the partial rebate which finally cuts out at a value of $250,000. There may be some who would question whether the ceiling of $250,000 is perhaps excessive. Speaking of the wheat and sheep combination type properties, of the high density properties in high rainfall areas and quite a few areas of general agriculture, the capital value of many properties would exceed $250,000 for stock and plant, but at the same time the return on capital and the actual income would be very small in comparison with that received in so many other areas of industry where $250,000 has been invested. Again I commend the Government for giving assistance to this area of the rural sector. This is a move in the right direction and I hope that as time goes on further concessions will be made. I say that hopefully. 
I want to say that I would support any type of abolition of death duties. I feel that they are one of the most iniquitous and unfair types of taxation which have ever been burdened on all sections of the community. One must realise that this duty was brought in as a wartime measure in 1914 in a time of emergency, presumably with the intention of it being on a temporary basis. Since then it has continued and the tax imposed by the Federal and State governments has been increased. This creates many injustices for many people in many sectors of the community. As was mentioned today by  Senator Byrne,  the revenue from Federal estate duties is something in the vicinity of $69m, which is marginally less than 1% of our total revenue. On a monetary basis I would suggest that the return from estate duty is not very great when one considers the problems caused and the costs to so many families in the community. I would prefer to see some type of equitable tax introduced instead of this regressive tax which affects many unfortunate people. 
If we consider primary industries we see that many properties have been handed from father to son and have gone down through 3 generations - in some cases more. These people might not have bought any more land, but because of an increase in land values, because other people have seen fit to have an escalation of land values or because 2 or 3 neighbours have bought another property so that they each have a little more and are able to pay more, eventually when a person dies his estate is assessed on inflated values over which he has no control and which he has had no part in causing. Yet his dependants are burdened with this increase in value. I hope that as time goes on we will see decreases in land values. One of the great problems for primary industry has been the inflated values of property and the problem that a primary producer has in trying to give some protection to his family so that his dependants will have security when he is deceased. I have known cases where families have had to sell part of their property to meet their commitments for estate duties. I know that it is said that a person can take out insurance. I agree that a person can take out insurance to ease this situation. But at the same time we cannot overlook the fact that State governments also have their eye on this area of taxation. It is very difficult - and I am speaking as a South Australian - to avoid some form of death duties, either at the State or Federal level. 
 That is right. So it boils down to this: Either you pay throughout your lifetime or you pay in one lump sum afterwards. Whichever way you pay, you are being penalised for an asset that in most cases has been created by money on which tax has already been paid. By thrift and hard work you have developed an asset and provided some security and in many cases a means of livelihood for your dependants. I believe that one of the tragedies of the situation is that having paid tax throughout your lifetime and having created an asset for your family, estate duty is imposed when you die. It is a burden for which your family should not be responsible. 
The other important question concerning estate duties, as I see them at the present time, is that a lot depends upon when a person dies. None of us wants to leave this world before he has to, but none of us has any control over this aspect. An example is a property owner with cattle in a drought frequency area. There were some years of drought, then there were 2 or 3 good seasons and the owner of the property built up his stock, but he happened to die while the property was at peak production.  His  family experienced 2 or 3 years of drought after he died. The value of the property was assessed on the year in which there was a good carrying of stock on the property. With a drought, the numbers of stock were depleted and the family's income was down. It takes that family a long time to develop the property again to the stage of good earning capacity. But the family is penalised because the father happened to die at the time when the property was in full bloom of production. But it could be quite a few years after the father's death before the property will again reach this peak of production. The case to which I have referred is not a hypothetical one. It is a true case. 
That is right, it caa happen in the world of business, but we are dealing with estate duty levelled on those engaged in primary industry. As I have said, I am opposed to all types of death duties because they affect all of us across the board. But this has happened. The economic policy of this country today - and I refer particularly to primary industry - is directed towards the aggregation of property, to increase the size of properties so that they become economic units. Whatever the interpretation of an economic unit is, I am not one who would try to define it. It depends upon the reliability of the seasons, the type of soil, the type of production and so on. So one cannot clearly say, in general, what is an economic unit, but one can do so with regard to a particular area. I think there are some districts in which all of us could perhaps say there are what we consider to be economic units. But I want to leave this question in the broad. 
The economic policy today is not to have great masses of aggregation of property, but to have an aggregation of property so that it becomes an economic unit. The fiscal policies associated with death duties and like taxes result in the fragmentation of properties, because in so many instances a part of a property has to be sold to meet the liabilities of death duties. We should go further than this. Again a man's dependants may find it necessary to buy a bit more property, to increase the size of the existing property so that it becomes an economic unit, but because of the financial commitments, such as the liability of estate duties, they are unable to purchase any additional property and so they do not have an economic unit. There are also other problems associated with these commitments. In so many instances we find that people try to cut corners and economise, with the result that efficiency is cut. Today we are encouraging greater efficiency, both in aggregation of property and in the operation of the property, yet the imposition of estate duty tends to have exactly the reverse effect. Hence I say again that I am completely opposed to any form of death duties, both at the Federal and State levels. 
I mentioned earlier that a lot depends upon when the owner of the property dies. I can use another example of a property which has been handed down through the generations. The family of the deceased property owner has not done anything to cause an increase in land values, but it is penalised because of the high commercial values applying in the district. If 3 or 4 properties have been sold in a district, the prices which were paid for those properties form the basis of the assessment of the value of the deceased's property in order to calculate the amount of death duties. So in many instances today we have the position, particularly with a downturn in income and a downturn in land values, where, because a man died 2 years ago - prior to the imposition of wheat quotas, to use an example - his family is paying death duties which are based on the inflated price of land. The deceased's family may not have been the cause of the inflation in land prices because it may not have bought any land, but 3 or 4 properties in a district may have been sold at big prices. The family is penalised for this. At the same time, there has been a great reduction in land values. The death duties in this instance are based on high land values which applied 2 or 3 years ago, but the tragedy is that the father died then and not now when land values have dropped. Death duties are based on the capital value of properties and not on the earning capacity of properties. 
So I suggest that if we have to continue with this type of iniquitous taxation, instead of estate duties being based on the capital value of a property, serious consideration should be given to making this assessment upon the earning capacity of the property. If this were done I believe that it would give greater opportunity to the dependants of the deceased eventually to meet their commitments for death duties and return the property to an effective and efficient economic unit. Perhaps this would pose many problems. There could be certain complexities with companies, but I cannot see any difficulty in obtaining figures which would show the gross return of a property and from there relating them to an assessment of estate duty. The assessment could be based on a 3 to 5 year term. This would give a far more realistic assessment of the potential of a property, and would divorce the property from any inflated land values in a district which could be caused by people who may wish to move in to a district because of investment reasons or because of competition between 2 neighbours who are determined to buy a property. Honourable senators have seen this happen. 
My suggestion would alleviate the problem of getting back to the reality of determining what a property is really worth. Any property is worth only as much as it can earn. I believe that this is an area which should be given serious consideration. It may have been given consideration in the past, but if it has not I hope that it will be given consideration in the future. There could be problems, but I would hope that the problems could be overcome, because I think that the assessment of estate duties based on the earning capacity of a property would be a far more realistic approach than the one we adopt at the present time. I support the Bill. I should have liked to see a Bill that went further and dealt with other areas of estate duty because, as I said earlier, estate duty does not affect only the area of primary industry; it affects all the citizens of this country, and I would hope that one of these days Australian citizens will not be burdened with the fear that some time in the future they will become the subject of estate duties which will place a very heavy burden upon their dependants. 
Having for so many years expressed the view very freely and frankly that I support the abolition of any type of death duties, I would be going back on my principles if at this stage I did not rise and express this view again. I have already expressed it this afternoon when I spoke during the second reading debate. When I look at the amendment which was moved by the Australian Labor Party I find that it states: 
That the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation. 
I repeat the words 'the burden of Federal and State death duties'. Here the Labor Party's amendment is giving thought to the great problem of this area of death and estate duties. The amendment continues: 
the particularly critical situation - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sector, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation. . . . 
Here again we find that the Labor Party is expressing a view which  Senator Byrne  has suggested the Government should consider. 
 Because I am prepared to go further, and I am asking honourable senators opposite whether they are prepared to go further. Then the amendment states: 
that difficulties are aggravated . . . 
 I am in your hands,  Mr President,  but I am trying to point  out  in argument that there is very little difference between the thoughts behind the proposals in the Opposition's amendment and the thoughts behind the proposal in  Senator Byrne's  amendment. That is my reason for referring to the Labor Party's amendment, but if you direct that I should not do so, then I shall not continue with it. But I want to say this: Ever since I have been here we have listened continually to members of the Opposition saying: 'We are going to help primary industry. Why does not the Government do this?' There are so many areas in which the Government has assisted the rural sector of the community by providing subsidies, long term loans and so on. Here is an opportunity to carry that assistance a great deal further, by asking the Government to consider, not immediately, but to consider the abolition of estate duties, and we find that the Opposition is bucking and ducking. I now ask honourable senators opposite: Where is their sincerity when they stand up and say: We will toe the benefactors of primary industry. We want to help the little man. We want to do this. Give us a chance and we will show you just what good we can do for primary industry.'? 
Here is an opportunity to give no more than an indication of where we would like to assist primary industry, but honourable senators opposite are ducking and weaving and are saying that they have had no notice of the amendment. If there is any sincerity in the thoughts of honourable senators opposite, they would not have needed any notification of  Senator Byrne's  amendment, because their direction would be very clear for them. The first I heard  of  the amendment was when  Senator Byrne  moved it. But my convictions are such that 
I have always been opposed to this area of taxation not only for the rural sector but for every sector of the community. I know where 1 am going.  Senator Byrne's  amendment has not worried me in any way at all. It has given me an opportunity to  go  further with my expression  of  view which I have always conveyed both outside and  inside  this Parliament. Finally, the next  time  Opposition senators  rise  and commence to speak about what they want to  do  for primary industry, I hope they will  not  mind if a few of us smile smugly and wonder what depth there is behind the words which they express. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Does the Minister know from which abattoirs throughout Australia meat has been rejected by the United States of America? If so, will he name the abattoirs? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Following recent Press reports that discussions were being held as to the feasibility of extending the runways at the Canberra Airport, have the discussions reached a stage where the Minister can say whether the runways will be extended at Canberra Airport or whether it will be necessary eventually to move the airport to a new site? 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does over-the-border trading in wheat Increase the dangers of spreading noxious weeds from one State to another, with a consequent adverse effect on many rural areas; if so, will the Minister have discussions with relevant State Ministers with a view to introducing a waybill or bill of lading for interstate road transports with wheat or grain, naming the consignor and consignee. 
Would not such  a  procedure enable authorities - 
to. keep a check on the over-the-border movement of grain and prevent the spreading of noxious weeks; and 
to find out those who are involved in overtheborder trading of wheat, which could endanger the whole structure of the wheat industry. 
There is a possibility of spreading noxious weeds by over-the-border trading in wheat. I have already brought this matter to the attention of the State Ministers for Agriculture since the introduction of quarantine measures is the prerogative of each State Government. 
It would be difficult to say how effective the procedure outlined by the honourable  Senator would  be in keeping a check on over-the-border movement of grain and in preventing the spread of noxious weeds. 
The Standing Committee on Agriculture recently considered a somewhat similar suggestion but came to the conclusion that a quarantine measure should not be used to overcome a marketing problem. 
1 wish to direct a question to the Minister for Air. ls he aware that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claimed in a television interview recently that the Fill aircraft needed tanker refuelling in the air equally as much as the F4 aircraft and consequently both aircraft needed aerial tanker support? As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claims to be an authority on such matters, I ask: Will it be necessary for the FI 1 1 to have tanker support to meet the operational requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force? 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the other place. 
I too have had correspondence from ophthalmologists and have had discussions with them in my own State and I agree that there are anomalies in this proposal. As  Senator McClelland  has said, if a patient goes to an ophthalmologist and an operation is required which will result in the fitting of an artificial eye, this is done for an outlay by the patient of only $5. But if the ophthalmologist prescribes spectacles to a patient the patient has to pay the full cost of the consultation. 1 think that this is an anomaly. I would like to know why it is so. J am not suggesting that the cost of the spectacles should bc included, but 1 do query why a patient should be able to be reimbursed to the extent of all but $5 for a consultation with an ophthalmologist, but if spectacles are prescribed the patient has to pay the lot. I believe that a patient should be entitled to the full Commonwealth benefit but not the cost of the spectacles. I do not see why this could not be done. I am in sympathy with the ophthalmologists in relation to the position in which they find themselves. At the same lime, 1 appreciate that there are many problems and complexities in relation to optometrists, but 1 speak in support of the case for the ophthalmologists. 
I wish to make quite clear at this stage that 1 am unable to support- the amendment. 
I wish to mention the fact that recently I had discussions with some ophthalmologists. I must admit that ] felt that their approach was an extremely fair one. They did not approach me in a dogmatic manner; they made their request in a very frank and I felt a very forthright and legitimate manner. They did not attempt to pressure me into agreeing to delay the passage of this Bill in order that their request could be included in it. However, they did make it clear to me that they would like to see their point of view included in the legislation and that they hoped it would be included in a Bill at some time in the not too distant future. But, 1 repeat, these ophthalmologists did not ask me personally to delay the passage of this Bill so that their requests could be met now. I admire them for adopting this attitude. What is more important than this Bill becoming law as soon as possible so that the large number of people who, unfortunately, need operations or medical assistance may benefit from it? 
Every day that we delay the passage of this Bill we are doing an injustice to the people of Australia. As far as I am concerned, the sooner this Bill becomes law and its benefits are available to the people of Australia the happier I and people like me will be. I am satisfied that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has made it quite clear that he will give serious consideration to the position of the ophthalmologists and to the anomalies which exist within this area. I propose to lend my support to the inclusion of ophthalmologists in the Commonwealth health scheme and to a clearing up of this anomaly in regard to glasses. However, I am not prepared at this stage to delay the passage of this Bill, because it would be against the interests of so many people to do so. But I give the assurance that 1 will fight for whatever I think is right. I will fight for the inclusion of the services of ophthalmologists in the legislation at a later stage. But I am more interested in the passage of this Bill through this chamber at this stage. 
I present the third report of the Printing Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I direct a question lo the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Certain statements are being made in South Australia in regard to the Dartmouth-Chowilla issue in which the proposed Chowilla dam is being referred to as South Australia's dam. 1 ask: Is it correct to say that any dam which is built on the River Murray below Albury, including a dam at Chowilla, cannot be claimed to belong to a particular State but that instead it would come under the control of the River Murray Commission, which consists of representatives of the New South Wales, Victorian, South Australian and Commonwealth governments? 
I did not intend to participate in the discussion, but having listened to  Senator Milliner  I .think that he might have included me as one of those honourable senators who he thought were confused about the Opposition's proposed amendment and were joining in certain conjectures regarding it. I think it is crystal clear what the Opposition wants. Its political philosophy is such that it wants a national health scheme. That is the first point. That is what the Opposition wants. It does not want the scheme that the Government is presently proposing. The second point is that the Opposition wants a scheme in which no responsibility is placed on the citizens of this country. 
Opposition senators are saying this. This is what they are proposing. It is not conjecture. It is crystal clear what the Opposition wants. Anything that is conducted in any community where there is no responsibility soon gets to a state of decadence. I believe that it is not asking too much of anybody to make a weekly contribution towards this health scheme for the protection and welfare of his family. But the Opposition says that this is unfair, that it is undemocratic.  Senator Milliner  referred to trade unions. The very reason why workers join trade unions - and I shall deal with the question of compulsion in a moment - is consideration for the welfare of themselves and their fellow workers, and also for their own families, because of industrial aspects. 
So when we start talking about the welfare of individuals in this country, we get to this cloudy area as to whether or not responsibility should be associated with a scheme. The Labor Party accepts that there should be responsibility, but then it goes one step further. It also wants compulsion. It has been said that a person can resign from a trade union. Perhaps he can, but when he does so he automatically signs his death warrant with regard to that source of employment. Do not let honourable senators opposite deny that this happens, because in my own State of South Australia workers have refused to join a union - perhaps for the very reasons which the Opposition is putting forward this morning with regard to the health scheme - and the moment they have done so they have been blocked from employment in that area. This happens. So I repeat that we believe it is crystal clear what the Opposition wants by this amendment. I am sure that the Australian community is perfectly willing to make a small contribution that will give all people, including their children, protection against sickness and ensure the security and welfare of families. I oppose the amendment. 
 Will the Minister for Civil Aviation inquire from TransAustralia Airlines whether it had discussions with or approached the Australian Wool Board to see whether there were suitable materials for the uniforms for the hostesses which would have all the requirements that were mentioned in regard to the new uniforms, including non-inflammability? 
1 am conscious that we have many Bills to deal with so I shall be brief. There are many reasons why I am keen to enter this debate. One reason for doing so is to express my support for the Bill before the Senate and another reason is to clarify  Senator Keeffe's  mind. The honourable senator suggested that there is confusion on the Government side, but I want him to know that on this side of the chamber we always have at least an ability and an opportunity to express our independent points of view. If  Senator Keeffe  is confused as to what might go on among Government supporters 1 can appreciate his confusion because we work in a free area whereas he works by compulsion. 
The proposed Australian Industry Development Corporation is something which enters a completely new field of finance. It has been said that the Australian Resources Development Bank could easily fill the need to be catered for by the Industry Development Corporation. The Resources Development Bank has done an excellent job and is doing an excellent job, but that bank has concentrated mainly on borrowing money internally. Lately it has been operating more externally. It has been a lender to any enterprise and has worked as a banking institution. The point I make is that the IDC is entering the field to borrow money overseas which it will have the ability to do. This money will be in the form of repayable loans. But the IDC goes much further than this. The whole idea of the Corporation is to encourage Australian participation in and development of industry, lt will not be a lender in the way that banking institutions are; it will be working in the area of repayable loans, but not involving the same types of security as existing financial institutions require. Basically it will be a money lender of the last resort. If companies are considered to bc sound, to have potential and to be under good management they will be given the opportunity to receive assistance from the Industry Development Corporation. Another very important aspect is that the IDC will support the maximum Australian participation within these industries and enterprises which will be developed. This is a great area and is an area in which many people in this country will give their wholehearted support. 
Some people have criticised the amount of overseas capital that has come into Australia. I do not think anybody can justifiably criticise or condemn overseas capital coming into Australia to assist in our development which could not have been achieved without it. There are many who have shown concern for the fact that this overseas capital has come in for the purpose of establishing overseas companies and corporations. Through the IDC we see an opportunity for Australian companies to be assisted with overseas capital: so instead of it being an overseas company it will be to a maximum extent an Australian company which has been established and developed here. As I mentioned before, 2 areas of assistance are involved. The first is on the basis of a repayable loan and the second is on the basis of the IDC taking up shares in various companies. These shares can be held until such time as the company is established and is a going concern, at which time, as has been shown very clearly, they will have to be sold wherever possible to Australians. So Australian equity will be maintained within these companies. 
I am very much in favour of what the IDC can do to assist the development of so many of our secondary industries and enterprises which in the future will develop along with our mining enterprises. I feel that as time goes on, because we will generate from the profitability of these enterprises more credit and capital within Australia, this will encourage and assist further development and further Australian participation in the development of this country. One of the main areas of doubt with regard to the establishment of the IDC springs from the fear among some people that this is perhaps the beginning of a nationalisation of finance in this country by which the Government will gain control of so many Australian enterprises that have been established throughout this country. This fear is based on statements that have been made in another place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and some of his supporters. I do not hold this fear. We must be realistic about this. 
If ever the Opposition were to get into power with its planks and platforms it would be endeavouring to nationalise. So there is a fear from that point of view - I emphasise the word 'fear' - among the Australian public. Having established the IDC on a free enterprise basis to achieve a maximum of Australian participation and equity in companies under a system of free enterprise, no doubt the corporation will work extremely well and will prove its worth to the people of Australia. Woe betide the Opposition if ever it tries to put a few more little props into this to make it a means of nationalising the finance and development of this country. Years ago the Labor Party decided that it would nationalise banking. We saw then very clearly the attitude of the Australian people. Consequently, I discount the fear held by some people in the community that the AIDC could be the beginning of something which will lead to a nationalisation of our financial resources. 
In the brief time available to me I should like to add that I shall lend my wholehearted support to the Industry Development Corporation. I feel that it has a very important part to play, not only in bringing more overseas finance and capital to this country to enable further development but also in providing an opportunity for Australians to participate in the development of all areas of free enterprise, in the growth and further development of the industries which will follow. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that inflationary trends in Australia over the last few years have been less than those trends in most other countries of the world? Would it be correct to say that this has been because of economic management and that the result of this would be benefits for the people of Australia generally? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Can the Minister say how long it will be before colour television is introduced? Further, can the Minister give an assurance that colour television will not be introduced before existing services are extended to distant country areas such as that of the upper Eyre Peninsula in South Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, follows the Press reports of the Canadian ban on the importation of Australian mutton into that country because of the presence ot some organisms, ls it a fact that these organisms are not considered harmful to humans? Can the Minister say whether the same strict standards of hygiene apply to Canadian abartoirs and inspections of Canadian meat for home consumption? is it not a fact that the balance of trade between Australia and Canada is adverse to Australia, with Australian imports from Canada in 1968-69 amounting to approximately $153m whilst Australian exports to that country amounted to approximately $67ni? If the ban on Australian mutton is to continue and raking into consideration our adverse balance of trade with Canada, will the Government give consideration to Australia reducing its Canadian imports and importing from other countries that are importers of Australian meat, with the hope of developing further markets for Australian meal, particularly mutton? 
 I shall be very brief in my comments. I usually stick to fact and do not go in for fiction, so the Opposition need not show any concern. The point I want to make is that we suspended the Standing Orders tonight and I understood that all motions were of equal value irrespective of the timing. But confusion has been created by arguments advanced from the other side of the chamber. One must accept this as understood, on the basis of your attitude in the chair,  Mr Deputy President.  If there was opposition to or criticism ot the procedure that has been adopted, I suggest that at that stage the Opposition should have called for a vote to decide which motion would be put first. That not having been done, I accept ail motions as being equal. There was another procedure that could have been used, namely, the general procedure of meetings. That was not used tonight. We understood that 3 motions were placed before us. 
Having said that, I want to speak on a very pertinent point in relation to the motion moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I do not think that there is one member of the Senate here tonight - [ hope there is not - who is opposed to the establishment of committees. But I can assure you,  Sir, that  many members of the Senate here tonight would show concern if we rushed quickly into the establishment of a group of standing committees. This Ls possibly one of the greatest changes in its procedures ever adopted by the Senate since it was established. We have a radical change, lt is a most important change. All of us,  i  hope, are responsible enough to accept that not only will we have added responsibilities as a result of the introduction of these committees but also we will be inexperienced in the beginning of the operation of them. 
Hence I hope that the Senate, in its wisdom, will accept the establishment of 2 committees in the initial stage, with the principle of the committee system accepted, as is stated in the DLP motion. I hope that wisdom will prevail and that we will accept the proposition that we should learn and that we should move slowly and with caution in order to gain experience so that when these committees are fully established we can improve the committee system for the benefit not only of this Parliament but of the whole nation. If we rush in blindly at the start, with inexperience and taking on too many committees, we will make so many mistakes that we all eventually will pay the price for our haste. I definitely support the idea contained in the DLP motion. I hope that the Senate will support the concept of setting up 2 committees in the initial stage. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Gair,  do you wish to exercise your right of reply? 
 I  present the Fourth Report of the Printing Committee. Copies of the Report have been distributed to honourable senators. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
1 rise to give my support to the Bill. 1 rise primarily to mention one point that has not been made tonight. AH honourable senators have stated very emphatically that this is a voluntary scheme. One thing that should be clarified is that even though it is a voluntary scheme, if anybody does desire to leave his property he will not be compelled to accept an assessed market value for it. He will have the opportunity to accept any value that he thinks will be of benefit to him. If he is offered a higher commercial value than the assessed commercial value he is completely at liberty to accept the higher offer. In questioning  Senator Webster  tonight I tried to get clarification of this point. I am certain that this is right. I have checked through the Bill and I have read the Minister's second reading speech. I thought that this was one point that should be clarified completely. This scheme - and I commend the Government for it - has many virtues, as  Senator Laucke  has said, and one of its greatest is that it is voluntary. The opportunity is available to those who wish to leave to get the best they can as they leave their properties. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [10.21] - The hour is tate and I know that senators are weary but I understand from occupying your seat temporarily,  Mr Deputy President,  during the afternoon that we are going to be enlivened by some speeches on the adjournment. Having said that. I wish to address myself to the general principle that this Bill postulates. 1 was interested to listen to  Senator Webster  deal with the problem of butter and margarine, which he introduced incidentally in the context of his argument, lt crossed my mind that the problem that was engaging his attention was not a novel one. I remember when 1 was a young boy reading of the history of the problems that engaged the wool industry in England and which were solved in part it was thought by passing a Bill which, when enacted, provided that everyone had to be buried in a woollen shroud. I quote that only as an illustration of a government enactment being used to interfere with or temporise with the mechanism of the market. 
The essence of the Bill before the Senate at present relates basically not to the problem of the dairying industry but to the problem of the use of land. 1 speak as a Victorian senator coming as 1 do from a part of Victoria where the problem that is  aroused  by the interest of this Bill has been in existence from time to time for 120 years. In the history of Victoria there have been 3 illustrations of the problem of land tenure that confront us. The first was what is known by social historians as the squatting age. Then there was the breakup in the 1870s of the land tenure system, which was based upon wool and cattle production, and the turning of the system into small units in order to fulfil the social- 
I want to recollect to  Senator Webster,  as a senator from Victoria, that this has happened 3 or 4 times in Victoria. The problem is one of effective land use in the context of the economic circumstances and the social circumstances that exist at ihi time. If the honourable senator will allow me to continue and does not break the thread of my argument - to use his own phrase - in the 1.890s. after the breaking up of the land in the 1870s and the bank crash of 1892, the land was reconsolidated. In 1919, it was broken up again for soldier settlement. It was reconsolidated because of economic forces and pressures between 1921 and 1939. From 1947 onwards, the land tenure system of Victoria was broken up again, in 1953, when I ended my first appearance in the Senate and when one of these Bills relating to the dairying industry was before the Senate, I made the prophecy that that Bill which related to the equalisation fund would be perhaps the last to be passed. I said that the Australian dairying industry was involved, as were all other elements of Australian primary industry, in the problem of land use. 
remember 2 years ago addressing 800 indignant dairy farmers at Shepparton. I would sooner face a hostile Senate than 800 indignant dairy farmers or 800 indignant farmers of any kind, for that matter. I remember quite clearly staling to the dairy farmers in Shepparton that the Victorian dairy farmers had no worry because they were an efficient section o£ the Australian dairying industry because the land in south-eastern Australia naturally lent itself to dairying. The present Bill deals with the areas of the Australian dairying industry into which, unfortunately, people have been cajoled by the promises of politicians for electoral purposes. They entered into areas where the land could not effectively support a dairying industry in economic terms, as 1 understand it. 1 add, if I may, as a measure of what I believe to be true in terms of personal experience, that on marginal land I have attempted 3 times - backed by what was alleged to be scientific knowledge of land use - to establish dairy farms. I have had 3 attempts and I have lost money on every one of them. I claim at least to know something about dairying, even if I do not know much about politics. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that we are involved in this problem of the effective use of land. In cold, economic terms, this is clearly demonstrable in the terms of this Bill. We are also involved - as indeed I am involved - in a romantic or an emotional problem which, I think, is pervasive in the Senate. I am constantly reminded, whereverI go, of the poet who who was writing of circumstances similar to those in which Australia finds itself today. He wrote: 
III fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates and men decay; 
Princes and lords may flourish, or may fade; A breath can make them, as a breath has made; But a bold yeomanry . . . 
That is the wordI substitute - 
. their country's pride, 
When once destroyed, can never be supplied. 
I believe in a strong heart land in the country. We do not achieve a strong heart land in the country by compelling the people to live in a state of economic peonage. Therefore, I support this Bill as a measure to provide the means by which, firstly, there may be an effective use of the land and, secondly, there may be a compassionate social approach to the solution of the problem. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister  for  Primary Industry. If drought conditions continue to affect adversely so many rural areas of South Australia, will the Minister consider giving drought assistance to farmers in those areas who are seriously affected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's answer to a question concerning Bureau of Mineral Resources expenditure 'that the proportion of expenditure on aeromagnetic and seismic surveys in each State is not available, but the greater proportion of the expenditure was north of the 26th parallel', and as the northern border of South Australia runs along the 26th parallel, would it be correct to say that very little has been expended by the Bureau on aeromagnetic and seismic surveys, in South Australia, particularly when compared with the amounts expended in some of the other States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
With regard to the Canadian ban on the importation of Australian mutton into that country because of the presence of some organisms, is it a fact that these organisms are not considered harmful to humans. 
Do the same strict standards of hygiene apply in Canadian abattoirs in relation to inspections of Canadian meat for home consumption as applies in Australia. 
Is it a fact that the balance of trade between Australia and Canada is an adverse one to Australia, with Australian imports from Canada in 1968-69 amounting to approximately $153,160,000 and exports to that country amounting to approximately $67,655,000. 
If the ban on Australian mutton is to continue, will the Government taking into consideration the adverse balance of trade, give consideration to Australia reducing its Canadian imports and importing from other countries which are importers of Australian meat, particularly Australian mutton. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Canadian restrictions were related to meat inspection criteria for the acceptance of mutton carcases affected by the disease caseous lymphadenitis. The disease is not regarded as being communicable to man. 
The Canada Meat Inspection Regulations, under which the restrictions were imposed, apply equally to both imported meat and meat prepared in Canada for domestic consumption. 
Yes. 
The Canadian ban is effective until such time as procedures in Australian meat works satisfy Canadian requirements. As a result of urgent action being taken in Australia to amend meat works' procedures it is expected that mutton exports to Canada will soon be resumed. 
 No one can say today that the rural industries are not faced with many problems. This applies to most sections. Nor can anyone who is associated with rural industry not show genuine concern. The Government is very conscious of the situation and is looking at both short term and long term measures to improve the lot of the man on the land. This afternoon Opposition supporters were critical of what the Government has done and is proposing to do to assist primary industry. There was an element of panic in some of the things they were saying. 
Opposition supporters are absent because they are trying to collect their thoughts about what they should have said this afternoon and did not. T emphasise that the Government would be foolish to implement any measures that were not well considered and sound, because in the long term they could have very adverse effects upon rural industry. As I said, all of us are conscious and are very concerned that we have problems with rural industry. But I say that these problems are not peculiar to Australia. These problems are worldwide. Mention was made today of what we should be doing in relation to selling wheat to China. The Australian Wheat Board, with Government and industry backing, has done an amazing job in disposing of its wheat over the years. We have a huge surplus of wheat on our hands. Again, this problem is not peculiar to Australia but is worldwide. But wheat is not the only grain with which we have such problems. Today there is a surplus of rice. Even a country like Japan, which not so long ago was importing rice, is now an exporter. Countries in South East Asia have a surplus of rice and are concerned as to how to dispose of that surplus. So when we start talking about other markets for wheat that we should be developing we have to look squarely at all the facts and assess the situation in its correct context. We have spoken before of the reasons for the wheat explosion. This has occurred because of new strains of wheat that have been developed. Likewise, there is a great surplus of rice because of two new varieties that have been developed. 
Perhaps one of the great problems of primary industry has been this great fall in wool prices. Today most wheat farmers arc also sheep farmers. Because quotas and increased costs were adversely affecting their profitability, they found that wool was a very good asset in the production of their overall net income. So the fall in wool prices has affected the mixed wheat- wool grower. But it has done more than this. The fall in wool prices has encouraged more wool growers to come in under the umbrella of wheat stabilisation. Hence we have had, as we know, an explosion in wheat production. The droughts that have occurred earlier and which tragically are occurring today in so many parts of Australia have encouraged many wool growers to come into the area of wheat production as a short cash crop. 1 think we should look at what the Government has done over the years to assist primary industry. Last year in direct financial assistance the Government spent about $ 1.40m. Last night in his Budget speech we heard the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  say that expenditure relating to rural industries is estimated to be $2 15m this year, which will be an increase of $77m. This is one area which shows clearly that the Government is currently giving direct support to primary industry. 
Even if there are huge surpluses in the wheat industry, the Government last year still guaranteed the first advance of SI. 10 a bushel, and this amounted to some $440m in ail. In addition to this, when the Australian Wheat Board had a big debt on its hands through not being able to sell all its wheat, the Government completely took over the debt for the Wheat Board and the wheat industry of some $300m. Again, we look to assistance that was given in the form of compensation when the United Kingdom devalued its currency. To the present time this has amounted to Si 15m. We look lo the great amounts that the Government is spending on research to assist the various sections of primary industry. The Government is supporting primary industry through the Commonwealth Development Bank with term loan funds and farm development loan funds. Then wc have taxation concessions. We have also special depreciation rales. We have full deductibility on some capital items and the averaging of incomes for rural industry. We have the benefit of the superphosphate subsidy, the averaging of prices for petrol and many other things that the Government has done to assist primary industry. In his policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised that the Government would reduce the rates of probate for rural dwellers, lt has carried out that promise. Again, there has been an increase in the amount of asset value of a property that can be exempted from any type of probate whatsoever. 
I think that now we should also look to another of the industries that is causing us quite some problem. I refer to the wool industry. The Government has given every encouragement to the industry organisations over the years to come forward with policies which would assist. As we saw in the Budget last night, the Government is doing a lot to assist the wool industry on a short term basis. Further than this it is looking to other areas, which I shall mention later, in which it may help on a long term basis. The Government is bringing in a one year scheme of emergency relief of a total amount of some $30m. 
Before 1 turn to some of the areas where perhaps the Government will assist primary industry in the long term we should look at some of the other factors which are causing these problems in primary industry. Inflation, which greatly increases the cost of production, is one of the great problems facing primary industry today. The Government is doing its best to counter inflation. This, I think, can be clearly seen in the Budget and by Press reports on the Budget. In most instances these reports have given credit to the Treasurer for the type of Budget he brought down last night. I mentioned inflation. One of the factors that can affect inflation and the cost structure is an increase in wages. I am not one to criticise the wage earner in any way. I have the greatest of sympathy and respect for the wage earner but I want to say that the militant trade unions - unfortunately there are many of them in this country - are endeavouring the whole time to increase the wage structure at a far greater rate than the increase in the gross national product, which does encourage inflation. All of us are conscious of the fact that when this happens there will be an inflationary trend. We read that last week the Premier of New South Wales criticised suggestions - in some cases they were more than suggestions - that some trade unions were fighting for a 35-hour week. This afternoon we heard read something which I believe is worth repeating. The report state'd: 
The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  declared that his organisation would strongly resist further efforts by employers and the Government to use arguments about the cost/price squeeze and its impact on farmers as a reason to hold down wage levels.  Mr Hawke  said he did not deny some farmers were in financial trouble, but these were almost solely small and inefficient marginal producers. 
 Mr Hawke  from the ACTU. The report continued: 
The cost/price squeeze argument, he said - and this is what we are here today about - amounted to little more than a plea for maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be better off 
Did any member of the Opposition stand up and criticise that statement which was made by  Mr Hawke?  Honourable senators opposite today in this chamber - no doubt others will follow - have been shedding crocodile tears and saying what should be done for the man on the land. But here is an opportunity for honourable senators opposite to speak to the militant trade union leaders in order to persuade them to curb this great fight for increases over and above the rate of increases of the gross national product. But honourable senators opposite will not do this. Let us consider a Press report in which  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition, is reported to have made some comments. The report stated: 
Too much attention is being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas, and too little to the needs of cities, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, said last night. 
By derivation, civilised men are those who live in cities - pagans are those who live in the country. 
This was the Leader of the Australian Labor Party making a statement like that. When we combine that with the remarks of  Mr Hawke  from the ACTU one wonders just how much sincerity there is in what the Opposition is bringing forward. I should like to comment on many other things, but because time is running short I shall refer quickly to some of the reconstruction proposals which are being seriously considered by the Government. 
The Government has agreed to provide $25m over 4 years for the reconstruction of low income dairy farms. This matter was dealt with by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  this afternoon. We were told in the Budget Speech last night that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  will be urgently examining the question of the wool industry reconstruction and reporting to the Government and that the Government recognises (hat 'reconstruction' includes also financial reconstruction. My comment is that I hope this will include longer term loans and, if possible, lower interest rates. It was stated that an investigation will include also the question of debt reconstruction. This will apply not only to the wool industry but also to primary industries generally. We were told that one thing the Government makes quite clear is that in any policy of reconstruction we must work in the closest possible co-operation with the industries and the people concerned. That is very important because people are important. 
Another area where improvements can be made is in that of tariffs because they increase the cost factor. Another matter is probate and death duties which have a long term adverse effect in a cycle upon the rural dweller. Before the last session finished there was a debate in this place, at which time some of us spoke in favour of the abolition of probate. At that time an amendment was moved to provide an opportunity for honourable senators opposite to cross the floor, but the Labor Party did not cross the floor to support us. Here was a chance for them to support primary industry but they did not do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria) 1.8.15]-  Mr Deputy President- 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister seen a report in the 'Australian' that China will give military aid to supporters of Prince Sihanouk in their fight against the present Government of Cambodia? This could only be interpreted as aid to North Vietnam. Is it not a fact that Prince Sihanouk was removed from office by a unanimous vote of the democratically elected Parliament of Cambodia? Will the Government make every effort through the United Nations to get that body to intervene actively and assist Cambodia, a small country, in its fight to defend its neutrality and rights against the naked and brutal aggression against its territories and people by North Vietnam and Communist forces? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator indicated to me that he intended to ask this question and, because it was a matter relating to external affairs in respect of which one needs to be very proper when replying, I am able to reply on the basis of the 3 questions he has asked. The Government is aware of the report. China has been providing assistance to North Vietnam for a long time in support of its aggressive aims throughout Indo-China. This assistance has already been going to Vietnamese Communist forces engaged in aggression against Cambodia. This so-called agreement seems to be designed mainly as a propaganda manoeuvre in an attempt to bolster the international credibility of Prince Sihanouk whose so-called government was set up in Peking under firm Chinese Communist control. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI made my point at the start. Perhaps the honourable senator was not listening. 
I remind the honourable senator of what I said about casting the first stone. It is a fact that Prince Sihanouk was removed from office by the unanimous vote of both Houses of the Cambodian Parliament which was elected in 1966 when Prince Sihanouk was still Head of State. In answer to the third part of the question, the Government has given careful consideration to this matter. It believes, however, that it would be unwise to bring the question of Cambodia before the United Nations at this stage because it might force certain members who have so far kept their options with regard to the Cambodian Government to take decisions that could be harmful to Cambodia's independence. Because of these circumstances any helpful proposals would almost certainly be vetoed. I might add that the Cambodian Government itself, which is the party principally involved and which presumably has considered the matter with great care, has not asked the Security Council to take any action. However, both the Cambodian Government and the Djakarta Conference have brought the situation to the attention of all members of the United Nations. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. If the shipping companies in the Australia-United Kingdom-Europe shipping consortia continue to press for increased freights on wool will the Minister continue to give every assistance to wool shippers to look for alternative shipping lines which can offer a service for wool at a cheaper freight rate? 
 Mr President,  I direct my question to you. Is it a fact that any question on which a point of order is taken is not rebroadcast? If this is so, does it not give an opportunity to  Senator Murphy  or other members of the Opposition to raise a point of order against any question that may be pertinent or embarrassing to the Opposition, and by doing this that honourable senator is then able to prevent the question from being broadcast to the Australian people? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry agree that today's strike that was called by  Mr Hawke  could cost the country millions of dollars? Would this not have an inflationary effect upon the economy and lead to increased costs adversely affecting the cost burden of rural industries 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen an open letter from the intellectuals of Cambodia to intellectual friends throughout the world in which they solemnly accuse the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese, as well as their mentor, the People's Republic of China, of trying to erase Cambodia and the Cambodian people from the face of the world? Has the Minister also seen a further statement in which they blame the current crisis in South East Asia on the leaders in Peking and Hanoi? Is it a fact that  Dr Cairns  invited to Australia for Moratorium Campaign discussions representatives of North Vietnam and the Vietcong, who are regarded as enemies not only of Australia but also of the nonCommunist countries of South East Asia? 
Dealing with the first part of the honourable senator's question, yes, I have seen a reference to the open letter to which the honourable senator referred. This again is an expression of view by certain people in relation to the problems in South East Asia, notably in Cambodia. I think it is quite important as an expression of view. As to the reference to  Dr Cairns,  I can rely only upon what I have read. I have in fact read - and nobody has challenged the statement - that  Dr Cairns  did invite certain people from the countries concerned to come to Australia as a part of the Moratorium Campaign and matters associated with it. I think it would be deplorable if we encouraged those people to come here having regard to the fact that we have an Australian involvement in Vietnam. It would be a complete affront, having in mind the policy of the Government in this matter, to those men of ours, and also women in certain fields, who are in the South East Asian area representing Australia and who are confronted by enemies from North Vietnam. To talk of bringing people here from North Vietnam when we have our own troops in Vietnam is quite shameful. It would do irreparable damage to those people who have accepted the situation of being in Vietnam as part of an Australian force. 
J direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question which relates to the increase of 4 per cent in wool freight rates charged by the United KingdomContinent shipping consortia, which will cost the Australian wool industry millions of dollars. I ask: Did the Minister or the shipper groups make any investigations of the possibility of using outside shipping services? If so, what were the results of such investigation? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. As the automobile associations in Australia are co-operative non-profit organisations which play a big part in educating motorists in safe driving practices and road traffic problems with the publication of a journal, will the PostmasterGeneral consider placing such organisations in bulk postage category A, which would allow them a cheaper postage rate and so avoid increased costs which can only be reflected in higher membership fees to the average motorist? 
 Senator Murphy,  when speaking to the Budget last week, referred to South Vietnam and emphasised particularly the comparison between the cost of lives and the money that would be saved if we were to withdraw from Vietnam. Having returned recently from South Vietnam and other countries in South East Asia I felt that I should make some reference to his remarks in my speech today. I am concerned to hear this point of view expressed because to me it implies immediate withdrawal from South Vietnam. No one would doubt that that would mean a saving of money nor could one doubt that it would mean a great cost in lives. 
We all know - history and the relevant figures prove this conclusively - that when South Vietnam became a single entity with the sanction of the United Nations and the support of the Soviet Union over 1 million people migrated from North Vietnam to South Vietnam to avoid the dangers of Communism. When one adds to that number the South Vietnamese who have been in the Army and those who have taken up senior administrative and leadership posts in the provinces, plus their families, one must realise that an immediate withdrawal, besides leaving South Vietnam and our allies in the lurch, would be leaving millions of people completely open to mass murder and massacre. I for one am not prepared to break faith with our allies nor to condone mass murder such as would occur. 
Many things in the Opposition's attitude to Vietnam concern me considerably. Some honourable senators may doubt my word on what would happen if North Vietnam were let loose on South Vietnam but we have only to cast our minds back to the 1968 Tet offensive and to what happened then. In Hue alone 1,500 people were mercilessly massacred in the city square and buried in a mass grave. That alone showed conclusively the kind of domination that the North Vetnamese would couple with the extermination of the people they did not want. 
An area of great concern to me is the fact that recently we saw in the Press that  Dr Cairns  had invited representatives from North Vietnam and the Vietcong itself, as well as other people, to Australia. Those 2 in particular I can only refer to as enemies of Australia. They are the people who today are fighting against our Australian troops. Likewise, they are the enemies of the non-Communist countries of South East Asia. If members of the Opposition do not want to believe me, let them ask the people in South East Asia and they will soon hear the answer. The point I want to emphasise is that, to my knowledge, no member of the Opposition has ever criticised the action of  Dr Cairns  in inviting these enemies, to Australia for a conference. So, I can only presume that all members of the Opposition support  Dr Cairns  in this action; and from that presumption one can only go further and say that members of the Opposition do support and do condone the actions of the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. 1 refer now to the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. There are many genuine people who do not support war. In fact, all people are opposed to war. But in Australia today there are many people who have been hoodwinked into supporting the Moratorium because of the amount of propaganda that has been fed through and the complete misunderstanding of the situation. The evidence of this is the fact that every Communist in Australia would be supporting the Moratorium. In fact, the Communist Party has members on the Moratorium committees. With reference to my own State of South Australia, although the Australian Labor Party says that to date it has handled the committee as an ALP Moratorium committee, there are 2 known Communists on that committee. 
 I can give the honourable senator the names. I do not have them with me, but I have them in my office and I will table them for the honourable senator this afternoon. 
1 will name them for the honourable senator. 
They were not disclosed in the Press; only the ALP names came out. But I shall make a point of giving those names to the Senate tomorrow - or tonight, if the honourable senator wants them. I am not ducking the issue. The honourable senator will be sorry that he brought this up. There are some names there that will embarrass him. Although there are people in Australia who are supporting the Moratorium, if members of the Opposition went to South East Asia they would find there people who are completely opposed to any such concept. They recognise that South Vietnam is an issue not just in that area of South East Asia; that Vietnam is a part of South East Asia and what happens in South Vietnam will have an effect upon the other countries of the area. 
Again if members of the Opposition wish to disbelieve me, 1 ask them to reflect on what is happening today in the countries of Laos and Cambodia. Laos is a little country with a population of fewer than 3 million. For a long lime - in fact, basically since 1945  -  the North Vietnamese have been mercilessly attacking the Laotian people. We find that today North Vietnam has an estimated 60.000 troops in Laos. They have overrun a great deal of the country. They have caused great hardship and great tragedy. There are in excess of 40,000 refugees in Laos. This is a little country that is bending over backwards to maintain its neutrality, lt is not hurting anyone. But what is happening there shows clearly the intentions of the Communists or the North Vietnamese; they intend to take over these countries in South East Asia at any price and at any human cost. 
Laos is endeavouring to stem this attack by the Communists. Each week about 10 Laotian soldiers are killed in action, apart from all those who are wounded. If that figure of 10 were related to a nation the size of the United States of America on a comparative basis it would be the equivalent of 1,000 American soldiers being killed each week. This is taking place in a neutral country, a little country, which does not want to hurt anybody and which only has a desire to have peace. Yet we hear nothing of this. Let me turn to Cambodia, where again- 
 Senator Cavanagh  interjects and says: 'Why do you nol get out of South Vietnam and let them have peace?' I remind him that, well before the issue of South Vietnam arose, back in 1945 the North Vietnamese and the Communists were in Laos attacking that country mercilessly, and that has been going on non-stop ever since. 
Cambodia also is a neutral country and a country that only wishes to live in peace and to mind its own business. It has been attacked by North Vietnam. Here 1 refer  to a  statement that was made to us by the Prime Minister of Cambodia, General Lon 
Nol - a magnificent man who is to be admired for his courage, initiative and leadership. He made the statement to all of us in the Australian parliamentary delegation that for so long the Communists have been able to cloud the issue of South Vietnam by saying that it is a civil war, but at last they have been exposed for what they really are - naked, open aggressors - because at last they have had to come out into the open and openly attack Cambodia, which is small, which is neutral and which did nothing to provoke any neighbour at all or to cause such aggression. 
One of the most inspiring experiences I had while I was away was to sit around a table with a group of students, teachers and intellectuals in Phnom Penh in Cambodia. These young people of different political views were all completely united in their cause - the cause of their country and finally the removal of every Communist North Vietnamese from their country. These students put out an open letter. I was not prepared to accept an open letter from them because it could be regarded as just a piece of paper. So, afterwards I spoke to the students and the teachers. I asked them whether their 2 leaders, or acting leaders, would be prepared to put their names on this open letter and sign it for me so that I would have a signed document. If the Senate wants this tabled afterwards, I will table it, with the signatures. The statements that were made by these young people really make the position clear. The statement was made to us that when Sihanouk was in power more than 1,000 students and teachers were physically removed. Some went to gaol; others just disappeared. In a hospital 1 saw a young lad who is now a paraplegic. I was not alone; others in our delegation saw him, too. He is paralysed from the hips down. As just an innocent 17-year-old student, he was beaten up by the Communists when they came in and tried to take over the university. 
These young people are so concerned about what is happening in other countries with regard to moratoriums that they have put out this open letter on which I have 2 signatures. There are too many pages to read all of it, but I wish to quote some of it. Honourable senators opposite are interjecting. Is it not strange how some people hate to hear the truth? This is a true docu ment which was signed and given to me by students in Cambodia. I wish to quote the comments of those students; but, because some people are afraid to hear the truth, they interject. The letter states in part: 
Considering the above, we solemnly accuse the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese as well as their mentor, the People's Republic of China, of trying to erase Cambodia and the Cambodian people from the face of this world. And Sihanouk, the puppet of these forces, is to be despised for the part that he has taken against his own countrymen. 
The annals of history will lay the full blame for the current crisis in South East Asia at the feet of the Communist leaders in Peking and Hanoi and to their fellow travellers and misguided henchmen, of which Sihanouk is a prize example. 
That statement could be interpreted to mean such people as leaders of moratoriums. I continue: 
These leaders have the gall to cry out American aggression! This is a joke in Cambodia. The Americans came with some aid for us, for the Cambodians themselves to ward off the North Vietnamese and Vietcong attack. Had our enemies succeeded, we would have been swallowed up, Cambodia would be no more. Wc, the Cambodian people, are grateful to the United States. 
That statement is very significant. It should ring very loudly and, I hope, very clearly in the ears of many members of the Opposition who for some reason or other seem to condone the carrying of Vietcong and North Vietnam flags down Australian streets under the noses of Australian boys who have returned from Vietnam. Time does not permit me to speak at further length about the issue in South Vietnam. I felt I had to make some reference to it following the comments that were made in this place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy). 
When the Parliament reassembled the week before last the Opposition saw fit to bring up an urgency proposal in relation to primary industry. It is rather strange that, on reading the Hansard report of the speech in the other place of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  last week I found about 6 lines that could be related directly to primary industry - just a passing reference. On reading the Hansard report of  Senator Murphy's  speech in this place, I could not find one line about primary industry. Hence I question the sincerity of the Opposition in bringing forward that urgency proposal. If primary industry had been as important to honourable senators opposite as they tried to make out on that occasion, why has the Leader of the Opposition in each House made basically no reference to primary industry? 
 That is right. He did use the words in one line of his amendment. The point I make is this: Now some member of the Opposition is bound to say something about primary industry to cover up. But the point I emphasise is that the Leaders completely overlooked primary industry and its problems. We all know that primary industry is faced with many problems. We also know that no single factor has caused this problem but that many factors have caused it. For example, world surpluses in many products have affected world prices, which have been reflected in Australian prices. When these factors are added to the rising cost of production of primary industry, the area of profitability of primary industry is affected greatly. 
For a long time the man on the land was able to increase his productivity to counter the rising costs of production. Today the situation has changed completely. Huge surpluses of many of our commodities have meant that we have had to be careful that we no longer over-produce and merely sit with a costly surplus on our bands. An example of this, of course, is the wheat industry. Two or three years ago there was over-production which was well beyond the capacity of the Australian Wheat Board to sell. The inability of the Board to sell all the wheat produced was due to over-production in the other main wheat producing countries. This coupled with a reduction in the actual markets brought about a consequent fall in prices paid for wheat. The wheat industry and the Government were placed in quite a serious position. One must commend the Government for what it has done. It still guarantees the first advance to the wheat grower of $1.10 a bushel, thus giving him some security. 
Perhaps the single factor that has had the greatest effect on primary industry today has been the fall in wool prices. It has affected not only the wool grower but also the mixed wheat-sheep farmer. For a long time the wool grower was able to increase his productivity to counter rising costs, but the limitation placed on the wool grower to increase productivity to an economic level was greater than that placed upon the wheat grower. It was easier to get more acres to grow more wheat than it was to increase wool production. There is a limit on how far economic production in the wool industry can be increased. For some time now the wool industry has not been able to increase its productivity to an economic level but has had to absorb increased costs. Today wool growers are faced with very low returns and, in some cases, no profitability whatever. 
The fall in wool prices had other effects. I mentioned the effect on the wheat-sheep farmer. When wool prices fell many wool growers were encouraged to go into the wheat growing areas or, if they were able to do so, to grow wheat on their own properties. This encouraged a further explosion in the production of wheat. Before wool prices fell the wheat-sheep farmer was able to get quite a sizeable part of his income from his return from wool. Today this income has dropped to a very minimal figure. Coupled with wheat quotas, which have meant a reduction in the amount of wheat grown, the fall in wool prices has meant that the wheat-sheep farmer has been very adversely affected. All sections of primary industry have virtually reached the stage where they cannot absorb further increased costs. They have reached the stage where they cannot be bled further. It is easy to say what the problems are, but it is not so easy to find practical solutions and answers to these problems. 
I wish to make a point now in relation to the cost of production. That has been a very big factor in the problems and profitability of primary industry. We all know that inflation has a great bearing upon the cost of production. Whatever the Opposition might say about the Budget, it shows the Government's attempt to counter inflation. Not only in annual Budgets but in other measures throughout the years, the Government has acted responsibly to check inflation. 
A new issue has come into the whole industrial field within the last 12 months. I refer to the emergence of a new  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I am the first to say that I support trade unions. I had the privilege of knowing  Mr Albert  Monk when he was the  President  of the ACTU. I admired him for his leadership and for his Australian approach. I would not be peculiar in saying that, because I think most Australians admired this man for the contribution he made to industry. Today we no longer have an Albert Monk: we have a very militant leader of the ACTU who should be in a position to know something of the basics of economics but who militantly presses for higher wages at a rate far in excess of the increase in our gross national product.  His  actions can lead to only one thing, that is, to increased inflation and, in turn, increased costs. Looking at it from a point of view sympathetic to the worker, he receives his increase in wages but within a short period of time the increase is lost because of the increase in the cost of living. 
But the wage increase does more than this. In the meantime it increases the cost of production. Primary industry is at the stage where it cannot absorb any further increases in its cost of production. Australia as a nation is expanding also in its commercial and industrial fields. As we expand naturally we as a nation will have to look at the possibility of selling more of our products overseas. But here we have to compete with foreign traders and manufacturers. We have to be careful to ensure that we do not find ourselves in the position of out-costing ourselves against our overseas competitors. If this happens - and it is something that we have to face realistically - we will then be in the position where there could be unemployment, which is something that we do not want to see in this country. We want every man to have a job and to earn a decent and real income - I use the term 'real income' instead of 'wage' because there is a great difference - so that all of us can maintain the high standard of living that we enjoy in this country. 
I must return to the question of the leadership of the ACTU. Today  Senator Cavanagh  referred first to the strike that was called by  Mr Hawke  last Tuesday and then he moderated his tone by referring to it as a protest meeting. 
I will check Hansard tomorrow. I may be incorrect, but my understanding was that he used the word strike' initially. Whether  Senator Cavanagh  said it today or not, we know that  Mr Hawke  called for a strike for the day on which  Mr Whitlam  was to make his speech in reply to the Budget. 
Initially  Mr Hawke  called for a strike, but then gradually he softened down his demand because certain trades and labour councils were not in favour of a strike. So  Mr Hawke  gradually had to moderate and come down to saying that there would be a protest meeting. Whether the Opposition agrees with this or not, it cannot deny that  Mr Hawke  condones strikes. A strike is an entirely different thing from a protest meeting. I say that  Mr Hawke  condones strikes across the board. 
Strikes are very costly not only to the worker but also to industry, to the consumer and finally to the nation. They have an inflationary effect. One must be very critical about this because we know that when inflation occurs there is an increase in costs, and when this sort of thing happens certain sections of industry, such as primary industry, cannot absorb any more costs. I have referred to a statement by  Mr Hawke  on a previous occasion, but I will refer to it again because  Mr Hawke  has no time or sympathy whatsoever for the man on the land. Honourable senators opposite stand up in this chamber and say that they support the man on the land, but at the same time, in the same breath, they say that they support.  Mr Hawke.  I may be wrong and, if I am, honourable senators opposite can correct me, but I do not think that any honourable senator opposite has ever stood up and criticised  Mr Hawke  for certain of the militant statements he has made. Let me quote an article reporting one of the statements he is reported to have made: 
The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  declared that his organisation would strongly resist further efforts by employers and the Government to use arguments about the cost/price squeeze and its impact on farmers as a reason to hold down wage levels. 
An honourable senator opposite says: 'Hear, hear'. The statement continues: 

 Mr Hawke said be did not deny some farmers were in financial trouble, but these were almost solely small and inefficient marginal producers. The cost/price squeeze argument, he said - and this is what we are here today about - amounted to little more than a plea for maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be better off. 
Opposition senators say 'Hear, hear' in support of  Mr Hawke.  I think this shows clearly the attitude of the Opposition to primary industry, when it comes down to realities. Whatever the Opposition may say regarding  Mr Hawke's  call for a strike or protest recently, he did not receive good support from the Australian people. The small numbers who went out in protest showed clearly that people were not prepared to accept this blatant attempt by the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to oppose parliamentary democracy, and this was basically what  Mr Hawke  was doing. He was calling for strikes and then for protests on the very day on which the Leader of the Opposition was to reply to the Budget. One can do no more than condemn the actions of a man who is prepared to go outside the parliamentary institution in order to carry on and to encourage such actions as he suggested. One could be critical and suggest that perhaps  Mr Hawke  had no faith in the ability of  Mr Whitlam  or of the Opposition, and hence he felt it necessary to go out himself and voice opposition. Whatever he may think, I hope that Australians will always remember and respect the fact that we have a democratic parliamentary institution in this country to which all of us should give our utmost support. Whatever party may be in power or whatever issue may be in dispute, Parliament is here for the people and it is elected by the people. I only hope that if  Mr Hawke  ever tries this again, he will receive as little support as he received on this occasion. 
Earlier I referred to the wool industry and to the great problems facing the wool industry. This year the Commonwealth Government has agreed, for one year only, to give $30m emergency relief to wool growers. But the Government has gone much further than this. The question of wool marketing is very much before the industry and the Government today. Broad suggestions for a single wool marketing authority have been made. At this stage I do not know any details of the plan. I hope that some change in wool marketing will take place, but at the same time I want to emphasise that I hope the Government and industry will not hasten to do something which will be a mistake and which will be very difficult to rectify in the future. 
The other point to make with regard to wool marketing concerns the physical changes that can take place in marketing. This is an area in which, in all probability, the wool industry can make big savings. The Government has been very cognisant of this fact because it has set aside quite an amount of money - as a matter of fact, $].5m - for research into various aspects of marketing, including the physical handling of wool, the measurement of wool, the core testing of wool and so on. Here again the Government is providing assistance in a completely new field in the marketing of wool. 
This afternoon  Senator Cavanagh  read out many letters expressing the concern of the wine industry, particularly in South Australia, about the Budget proposals. Speaking personally, I must say that I was sorry to see the Government introduce a 50c tax per gallon on wine at this stage. I would have hoped that the Government could find some other way to raise revenue. For long the wine industry has been the one primary industry which has beendoing very well. Not so long ago the wine industry was in trouble with a surplus and the problem of disposing of its crop, and in addition to this over the last few years there have been big plantings of vines not only in South Australia but also in New South Wales and to some extent in Victoria. Soon they will be coming into production and, when they do, there will be a great increase in total production. 
The Government will have to watch this situation very closely. I know that it will do so. But also, if it can be shown that there is a marked fall-off in demand because of the increased tax, I hope that the Government will take the steps necessary to reduce the tax or to remove it. First and foremost we must make sure that this one section of primary industry which has been doing so well recently is allowed to continue to be profitable. Another matter to which I refer is the break-up in the tax of 50c per gallon to 8c a bottle. It amazes me to find that the industry has allowed the 8c tax to be escalated to a price increase of 15c a bottle. I cannot understand why the industry has not seen fit to make this tax increase a single line entry so that the increase is 8c at the point of sale. The increase of 8c could have been channelled through to the consumer who could have been spared this escalation in price which takes place so often. 
I conclude my remarks by mentioning briefly a few other pointsat which the Government is looking for the purpose of assisting primary industry.In the area of reconstruction the Government has agreed to provide $25m over 4 years for the reconstruction of dairy farms, about which all of us are very conscious. But also the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has announced that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  will be urgently examining reconstruction of the wool industry and reporting to the Government. He said that the Government recognises that reconstruction includes also financial reconstruction. This point is important. I hope that in this reconstruction will be included an investigation of longer term loans and the possibility of reduced interest rates. We have been told also that the Government will investigate debt reconstruction. This in itself is a very serious problem, not only in the wool industry but also in other areas. But in addition it is my personal hope that the Government will give serious consideration to the abolition of probate duties, which is something which we tried to achieve in this place. I remind the Senate that a few of us voted for the abolition of probate, but it was noticeable that the Opposition was conspicuous by its absence in that not one member of the Australian Labor Party saw fit to cross the chamber and support us in a move which would have given so much relief to the man on the land. 
As the States come into the area of death duties, I hope that they will give serious consideration to reducing State succession duties and that also they will look very closely at freight charges. All these things have an adverse effect on the cost structure of primary industry. Today 1 have purposely dealt mainly with primary industry because of its great problems. As I said earlier, it has been noticeable that neither the Leader of the Opposition in this place nor the Leader of the Opposition in another place gave any time to primary industry. Perhaps now that the Opposition has had a reminder to this effect one or two Opposition speakers will pass some comment on aspects of primary industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As the standard gauge railway line between Port Augusta and Whyalla is to commence shortly, and taking into account the proposals for a new standard gauge line between Tarcoola and Alice Springs, is the Minister able to say  what the position is regarding the standardisation of the Port Pirie-Adelaide line and when construction is likely to commence? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Following the report that a Federal member of the Australian Labor Party has been banned from taking part in the Moratorium Campaign because of his views on Cambodia, I ask: Is it not a fact that Cambodia, a neutral country, is being openly subjected to aggression by Communist North Vietnam? Is it not also a fact that the Australian Labor Party claims to have significant representation on the Moratorium committee? Has any leader or member of the Australian Labor Party criticised the action of the executive of the Moratorium committee? If not, does this not indicate that the Australian Labor Party condones the aggression against Cambodia by the North Vietnamese and, at the same time, consistently does not support freedom of speech? 
1 rise to participate in this debate because there are a number of pertinent points which I think should be clarified. Some unfair criticism has been levelled at  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson tonight. 
It has been said that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's timing has been wrong. Circumstances have changed in recent times. It should be remembered that only recently the Senate introduced a system of standing committees in addition to its system of Senate select committees. The operations of committees have a direct relationship to the time we can possibly save within this chamber. I think this is a very important point which must receive consideration. 
Another matter which has been raised is the restriction or curtailment of the rights of the various committees which have been set up. This is something which concerns me and I think it should concern all honourable senators in this chamber. 

 Questions on Notice 

We all hope that the system of standing committees will be effective and of great assistance to the Senate. It is also hoped that they will save time. I do not think that it is a valid argument at this point of time to say that the 3 proposals of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. I think to do so would take something away from the rights of the individual members of this chamber. Tonight we have an opportunity to give expression to various points. These expressions can be noted by the Standing Orders Committee. If the Senate decides that a proposal should be accepted the Standing Orders Committee could draw up a standing order to suit the proposal and it would in turn come back to the Senate for it to decide on the merit of the standing order. 
Another important point which must be given consideration is that, as I understand the situation, there is no member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on the Standing Orders Committee nor is  Senator Turnbull,  who is an independent senator. The members of the DLP and  Senator Turnbull  will have an opportunity tonight to express their points of view and give an indication to the Standing Orders Committee of what they are desirous of seeing within the Standing Orders, particularly with regard to the 3 proposals of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I think, that for those reasons alone, one must commend  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for facilitating an open discussion, not on Party lines but on individual lines, in the Senate tonight. This will give all of us an opportunity to express our point of view and will give the Standing Orders Committee an indication of what  e desire that Committee to consider. The matter will then be brought back to the Senate. The Senate will still have control of its destiny because it will decide the fate of the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. 
 I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that at the time Cambodia was attacked and invaded by North Vietnam, General Lon Nol, the Prime Minister of Cambodia at that time, requested from Australia aid in the form of communications equipment and not arms? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. How many and which Australian manufacturers of tractors receive assistance under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966? How many Australian manufacturers are eligible today for temporary additional bounty, and what are the names of the companies concerned? 
My question also is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the march of farmers which took place in South Australia continued its progress down the streets of Adelaide until it reached a park? Is it. not a fact that permission for the march was given by the Adelaide City Council? Is it not a fact also that the farmers did not in any way obstruct traffic by stopping in a main thoroughfare?  Is  it not a fact that in the Moratorium march on Friday Moratorium marchers and leaders defied requests by the law and stopped in the centre of North Terrace and King William Street, obstructing traffic? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of the circumstances of the original march by farmers in South Australia.  I  would accept what the honourable senator said in good faith as a description of what happened. All  I  know of what happened in the Moratorium march in Adelaide last Friday is what I read in the newspapers. I think I read that 100 or so people were involved in trouble with the law as a consequence of their behaviour. 
I ask the Leader of the Government whether he has seen a report in the South Australian Press of a statement made by the  Chairman  of the Moratorium Committee in South Australia that that Committee would attempt to bring the life of the nation to a standstill in transport, factories, offices and education facilities, and that it would use such means as the occupation of city streets for a considerable length of time to achieve that purpose. What are the powers of the Commonwealth Government to prevent such anarchy and subversive actions from taking place and disrupting the every-day lives of the people? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not seen the statement to which the honourable senator refers. If the statement was made in the context in which he gave it to us - and I do not for one moment challenge his presentation of it - I would say it was a very wrong and improper statement to make. I think it does no credit to the organisation which made it. As to who is responsible for maintaining law and order and the conduct of the affairs of South Australia, this quite clearly comes within the responsibility of the South Australian Government. One would hope and assume that it would accept the responsibility of seeing that the laws of that State are obeyed and that no organisation, no matter what it is, should be given an opportunity to bring the city, the community and the life of a people to a standstill. In my judgment such action would, as suggested by the honourable senator, go a long way towards complete anarchy. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a report in the South Australian 'Advertiser' to the effect that Radio Hanoi has referred to the practical support being given by the anti-war movement in Australia and that trade union leaders in North Vietnam have expressed their sincere thanks to the organisers of recent anti-war demonstrations in Australia for their support? Is this not a clear confirmation of the importance to the plans of the Communist forces of North Vietnam for domination of Indo-China played by the Communist inspired Moratorium movement in Australia? Could this not also be taken as a North Vietnam thank you' to all those who organised, led and spoke in support of the Moratorium, including those leaders and members of the Australian . Labor Party who spoke? 
I was thinking of the expression that one often hears in private life: Spare me from my friends. I am sure that receiving the accolade from Hanoi or from North Vietnam would be rather a source of embarrassment to the not so many people in this country who have been associated with the activities of North Vietnam in relation to Vietnam. I have not had an opportunity to read the statement made in the Press so I do not want to go beyond that. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf  Senator Cavanagh,  by way of interjection, wants to embrace it, that is his responsibility and certainly not mine. 
Like all people I am concerned about the necessity for an increase in postage and telegraph rates. Prices are rising in many sectors today because of the increase in costs. These increases are necessary because of the general cost factor, lt is estimated that the loss incurred by the Post Office this year could be in the vicinity of $19m. The projection is that in the period 1970-71 if the Post Office continued to operate according to the present charges and tariffs the loss could be some Slim. This shows that there is every need to have some increases in postal charges and telegraphic rates. It is estimated that without an increase the postal side could lose some $30m in the year. At the same time, on the telecommunications side there could be a profit of some $19m. 
One might question why there is a great loss in one area and a profit in another area. The reason is that the postal side is a labour intensive area. We know that today the cost of labour is getting higher. This is because of wage increases. In this area of labour intensity it is necessary to counter projected wage increases and therefore there should be increases in the tariffs charged. The telecommunications side is a capital intensive area in which we do not face the same recurrent costs. There are high capital costs in this area but these reflect profitability. Hence one can set the projected loss on the postal side against the profit in the telecommunications area. The proposed increased charges before us in this Bill could result in an increase of some $53m in a full year. In real terms this could mean an estimated profit of about $30m for the Post Office generally. lt might be said that this is an excessive profit but let us reflect upon the activities of the Post Office and the service given to the country generally. In modern society one can refer to many areas of great importance and significance for the welfare and needs of our people but possibly there is no greater area than that of communications, whether within densely populated cities or in sparsely settled areas, whether intrastate, interstate or international. Today communications play not just an important part but an essential part in our lives. 
With so much reliance being placed upon communications today it is essential that we have a very efficient service, lt is necessary to operate at a profit in order to keep up with the new technologies which are coming to pass every day. Australia must remain at the forefront of developments in postal and telegraphic services, ft has done so in the past and I am certain this will continue to be the case in the future. No country is better served in the field of communications than is Australia today and if we are looking for profitability in the Post Office we will have to continue to adapt to the latest technological advances made. We must have a service equal to the best in the world. 
Criticism has been levelled at the Government because of the increases proposed this year.  Senator Wilkinson  said a few moments ago that it is only 3 years since the last increase in postal charges. However, we can point to many other areas in the commercial world where there have been increases in charges more recently than the last increase in postal charges. In that 3-year period there have been increases in costs which have been absorbed by the Post Office. I referred earlier to the fact that the postal side is labour intensive. During that 3-year period wage rates have increased by some 29 per cent. I am not critical of those increases; I am merely being factual in stating that the increase has been at the rate of about 29 per cent. It is impossible to avoid these increased costs in areas which are labour intensive because there is such a great requirement for personal handling in the delivery and sorting of mail. We appreciate that some 70 per cent of the costs of the postal services are associated with this labour factor. 
 This might be the point. This might be one area in which people might say that efficiency has been reduced in order to counter rising costs. This could be a legitimate argument in some spheres of activity. Nevertheless it is a fact of life that there have been these great increases in wages in a labour intensive area - an area in which higher costs cannot be avoided. It is not impossible but highly improbable that we can go too far with mechanisation of mail sorting. Since 1959 the postal rates overall have risen by only some 45 per cent while wages have increased by 100 per cent. These figures clearly show that there has been considerable efficiency and research directed towards greater productivity within the Post Office. If we look for areas in which this increased cost factor has been countered we see that productivity has shown a great increase. Recently there was a 1 per cent increase in labour while there was a 6 per cent increase in the amount of business. This does show that productivity has increased within the Post Office. 
Turning to the telecommunications side we see that the exchange and service rentals and connection fees have not been readjusted since 1954, which is a considerable time. Even though these charges are to be increased now we must realise that there have been great improvements in services provided not only to city areas but also to country areas. It is essential that more services be extended to these people. All responsible people, whether in Government or in Opposition, In this chamber or in the other place, have urged that all possible steps be taken to encourage decentralisation and improve the lot of those people who are prepared to live in the country. 

 Senator Webster tonight referred to the new telephone service that is being extended to country people. Telephone lines are to be constructed by the Post Office to areas within 15 radial miles of a local telephone exchange. The significance of this move is that people who possibly could noi afford a telephone service previously will be given an opportunity to have that service. The fact that the provision applies to areas within 15 radial miles of a local telephone exchange is also very significant, ft does not matter that the line may go for 25 miles or 30 miles, so long as it is within a 15 miles radius of the local exchange. 
It is also pleasing to note that the assistance to be given for upgrading or reconstructing private sections of existing subscribers' lines is to be reviewed. Many country people have telephone lines today that need reconstruction. Other country people have difficulty in meeting the maintenance costs of their telephone lines. I have referred to the services given to people living in country areas. Last year I had long discussions with the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  about a particular area of my home State of South Australia. In that area 15 or 20 farmers developed property and invested all their money in it. They could not afford to pay for the installation of telephpne services themselves, and the closest telephone to them was 9 miles away. In times of sickness and urgent business, and for many other reasons, people living in country areas should have the same services as people who live closer to or within cities. T am pleased to say that the Postmaster-General has decided to' extend telephone services to people living in such outlying areas. In considering the increased charges of the Post Office we should examine the other side of the coin and appreciate that extended services are being given to people who are in need of them and deserve them. 
I turn now to consider the very costly field of automatic telephone services that are being installed in many country areas. Quite a few honourable senators have been served by a manual exchange in small country towns. The local postmasters and postmistresses give wonderful service, but they are only human beings and they cannot be expected to operate a little exchange for 24 hours a day. Some such services operate for an hour or two in the morning and again in the afternoon, perhaps an hour at night, close at 11 a.m. on Saturdays and do not open at all on Sundays. 
This creates many difficulties for the people who are provided with what is in reality an inefficient service. Following the provision of an automatic exchange people in the area can ring anywhere for 24 hours a day. They are given a great feeling of security. I commend the PostmasterGeneral and his Department for extending automatic services to people in rural areas. They are essential in such areas. 1 also appreciate the cost factor involved within the overall ambit of the Postmaster-General. I repeat that in examining increased charges we should appreciate that all benefits involve a cost factor. So far as I am concerned, the extended services to be given by the Post Office are well worth while, even though they may necessitate some increases in costs. 
Tonight  Senator Cavanagh  criticised or questioned the extension of telephone services to people living within 15 radial miles of a local exchange. He said that the services should be extended beyond that distance. 1 ask whether any honourable senator can. indicate to me many areas in this country where subscribers in any number live further than 20 miles from a post office or exchange. 1 am not referring to pastoral areas but to general rural areas. 1 will be interested to learn the numbers of subscribers living further than .15 radial miles from an exchange or post office. 1 doubt, that there are many such areas. T. cannot think of any, other than pastoral areas. There is a great difference between pastoralists and people living in general rural production areas. If any senator opposite can put a factual case to me in this respect I would very much like to hear it. 
Wilkinson suggest that all taxpayers should be contributing to assist the development of postal and telegraph services in those rural areas? As a subscriber I am willing to contribute for the services extended to me and for the use of such necessary services as the telegraph service. 
Much has been said tonight about the establishment of a statutory authority to conduct (he Post Office in Australia. Although there has not been open criticism of the Postal Department in this country, it has been implied. In those circumstances it may be a good idea for me to quote the words of the Postmaster-General in the other place in the debate on this measure. He said: 
Recently, in March last approximately, the British Host Office decided that it would require a 10 per cent return on capital invested in telecommunications in lieu of the  Hi  per cent return which had been the earlier rate,  If  we apply a return of 10 per cent on $2. 1 90m which is the amount invested in the Australian Post Office in the telecommunications field, we arrive at a figure of $2l9m as representing that interest return. If we apply the British Post Office basis of 2 pei cent on expenses in relation to the postal services, which in Australia totals $173m, the figure is $3.5ni. So, the target of the Australian Post Office in the financial year which we have just ended would bc a surplus of 5220.5m . . . May I indicate what has happened in the Australian Post Office in the last financial year. Interest was $ 106m and the profit achieved was $2ni. This means that SI 08m is the amount which we have received in return on money invested or, in the case of the postal services, turnover. So the figure under the basis laid down by the British Post Office is more than twice what we in fact obtained in Australia. 
In the light of that statement by the Postmaster-General I ask members of the Opposition: Do they want increased costs in return for a statutory body? This is basically what happens. In Britain recently the telephone rental was increased from $34 to $52. but the projected increase in the telephone rental in Australia is $7, making the rental $47. This charge is well below the charge which is imposed by the Corporation in the United Kingdom. The service connection fee in the United Kingdom has risen from $A43 to SA54 whereas the fee in Australia is to increase from $30 to $40. Once again the charge in Australia is well below the charge which is imposed by the Corporation in the United Kingdom. 
The losses which are incurred in Australia are of concern to all of us. 1 wish to draw comparisons between the positions in other countries and the position in Australia in order that an accurate assessment can be made. If one further examines the situation in the United Kingdom one will find that its postal service lost $A37m in 1969-70. The deficit incurred by the Post Office in the United States of America exceeds$A1.6 billion annually. The loss of the Post Office of our Canadian cousins was somewhere in the vicinity of $A47m last year. Therefore, it is not something which is peculiar to the Post Office in Australia to incur a loss in the postal services it provides. A significant point I wish to make is that if we were to work on the same basis and with the same returns as the Corporation in the United Kingdom we would find that we would have to increase our charges greatly in order to obtain the same returns on the capital invested. In other words, the users of postal and telegraph services in Australia would have to pay amounts far in excess of what they are paying at present for the services provided if the results of the operations of the Corporation in the United Kingdom in its infancy are any guide. Therefore, let us be very careful when we start talking about the establishment of corporations. 
 Senator Gair  could be correct because the Post Office in the United Kingdom was inaladministered for so many years. We have in Australia at present a postal service equal to that of any nation in the world. It is also as cheap as the service provided by any nation. Let me draw some comparisons between the charges in Australia and the charges in other countries. I will give the overseas rates in their Australian currency equivalent. The postage rate in the United Kingdom is to increase from 4.5c to somewhere in the vicinity of 6.3c; in Germany it is 7.3c; in Canada it is5c. in the United States of America it is to be increased to 7.1c; in France it is 6.4c; and in Sweden it is 9.5c. 
In conclusion I would like to say that, like all honourable senators, I am con cerned about the fact that there is any need to increase both postal and telegraph rates. I hoped that there would be no need for any increase, but the facts and figures are such that rises are necessary. However, when one relates the charges for the services which are provided in Australia to the charges imposed for similar services in so many other countries one will appreciate that we are very fortunate to have such an efficient service at such a cheap price. 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has any contract been signed for the construction of a natural gas pipeline from Sale, Victoria, to Sydney, New South Wales; if so, what is the proposed route of the pipeline and who makes the final decision as to the route to be followed. 
Has the Minister for Air seen a report in today's Press to the effect that yesterday the United States House of Representatives approved of the payment of certain moneys for 40 Fill aircraft which have completed severe tests and been found to be structurally sound for use by the United States Defence Department? Has the Minister also seen the reported comments of the  Chairman  of the United States House Armed Services Committee,  Mr Mendel  Rivers, who was formerly a critic of the Fill aircraft, to the effect that he has taken a 180-degree turn following the successful testing of the aircraft and now fully supports it? Will the results of this successful testing of the Fi ll aircraft have any effect on the delivery of those aircraft which have been ordered by Australia? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has any gas company in New South Wales signed a contract with Esso-B.H.P. for the supply of natural gas to New South Wales. 
As the Commonwealth has a responsibility relating to royalties from the production of natural gas off-shore, and as price is related to royalty, what is the contract price for any natural gas being supplied to New South Wales from Esso-B.H.P. gas fields. 
What is the present proposed contractual price for the sale of gas from the Gidgealpa field in South Australia to New South Wales. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian delegates to the so-called farmers' march finally did not march because of the~ political implications? Is the Minister aware that the same delegates prepared in a responsible manner a manifesto for the Prime Minister and were received by him this morning? Is the Minister aware that these delegates are satisfied that they have done the right thing for primary industry by using logic and having a sense of purpose instead of playing politics? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What steps are taken to ensure that substitute or synthetic products, such as synthetic meat and synthetic drinks, are labelled and marketed as synthetic products and are not labelled to give the impression that they are natural products? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
When will the first jumbo jet arrive at Tullamarine airport? How many jumbo jet flights are expected at Tullamarine each week? Is there an anticipated increase in the number of overseas nights to Tullamarine because of a lesser problem with aircraft noise than exists now at the Sydney airport? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate ascertain from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate whether the Australian Labor Party is in favour of selling wheat to Red China? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. What amount of  royally has Victoria received from the production of Bass Strait oil and natural gas? What is the estimated amount of royalty that Victoria will receive annually from Bass Strait oil and natural gas? Would not the revenue received by that State from the highly productive oil fields further advantage that affluent State to the disadvantage of the less wealthy States? 
 I am always amused by honourable senators opposite who openly criticise the Government whenever we discuss any measures concerning sales tax. excise, or any form of taxation whatsoever. Those same people often expound that the Government should do more. A very old and realistic philosophy that we should never overlook is that if something is to be done, somebody has to pay for it. The Opposition comes to light with all sorts of expensive ideas. 1 have said before that it is very easy for members of the Opposition to sit back and criticise and to say that this should be done and that should not be done. That is easy when you do not have the responsibility of managing the economy through the post-war years to the point of expansion second to that in no other country. This has come about because of a sound economic and stable government in Australia. Demands are still made by people that more should be done for them. All honourable senators would agree with this aim. We are here to represent people and to work in their interests. The Government accepts its responsibility and legislates and budgets accordingly. 
All the criticism that has been levelled at the imposition of sales tax and excise in this Budget has been prompted because the Budget includes far greater provision for social services, the area in which the people of this country are helped. How does the Government pay for this help? The philosophy of many honourable senators opposite is to get out the printing machine and to start pumping out money Other countries have tried that method, with the result that their economic set-up soon collapsed. Investment is discouraged and money Hows out of the country because people become scared. We will not have this happen here because of the responsible Government we have. 
This Government is prepared to do things for people, lt is also conscious that payment must bc made for the services that are provided. How are they to be paid for? There are many areas of revenue earning, including taxation in its various forms, including those in the measure we are dealing with today. I remind the Opposition of what  Senator Greenwood  said when he spoke in the previous debate. He said that when sales tax was introduced into Australia it was done by a Labor government. Since then a Labor government has been in office. It had an opportunity then, if it believed that this is such an iniquitous tax, to abolish it It had an opportunity to abolish all forms of excise, but it did not. The old Labor Party that was then in office, not the one we know now, endeavoured to accept its responsibility. It realised that these areas came within the ambit: of its responsibility. 
When  Senator Donald  Cameron was speaking in this debate, 1 was listening in my office to what he said. I remind him that on many occasions honourable senators opposite listen to the debates in their offices. I do not accept or appreciate the remarks that he made. 1 hope he is observing that at present another senator from South  Australia on this side of  (he chamber has entered the debate. 
 You 'cannot read my mind. You did not even know that I was listening. During the debate on the Budget I dealt ' with the effects of this excise on the wine industry. T mentioned then that I would have much preferred that the Government could have raised more revenue from areas other than the wine industry. The wine industry still has stability and is expanding, in contrast to so many other areas of primary production. I said then that if it could be shown conclusively that this excise has an adverse effect and reduces the demand for wine,, the Government could seriously reconsider the situation, ft has been said that this excise is equal to 17c a bottle. My understanding is that the increase in price is 17c a bottle in South Australia and 15c a bottle in New South Wales. I raised this point with  Senator Cavanagh  in the debate on the Budget. 
Excise of 50c a gallon is equal to about 8c a bottle. Why did the price go up to 17c a bottle? We appreciate that the middle men must get their margins. However, taking a margin of 40 per cent for the middle man, no honourable senator could arrive at an answer of an increase of 17c a bottle, unless the product is handled by a great number of people. But that is not the case. I suggest that the wine manufacturers be asked by how much they have increased the price, and how an escalation of 40 per cent in the mark-up has been incurred. It will then be found that the wine manufacturers have increased their price by 3c a bottle. I am not referring to the growers, but to the wine manufacturers. If they choose to' be critical of the Government and say that the excise is wrong by 100  per  cent, all 1 can say to them is that they must be 50 per cent wrong. 1 say that because they have introduced an increase of about 50 per cent themselves in order to arrive at an increase of 17c a bottle. I emphasise that I am not talking about the growers. The growers are the ones who will feel any adverse effects. It will be the poor old producers, right at the grass roots of the industry. That is the area that must be watched very closely. A lot has been said about the excise on wine. I have expressed my views on it. 
 Yes, and when it is proved to be wrong I will reconsider the situation; when and if it is proved to be wrong. For years barley growers in this country have been making a big contribution to the revenue gained by excise. The excise on a gallon of beer is in excess of $1. Many gallons of beer are made from 1 bushel of barley, so the barley industry makes a contribution to the Commonwealth of approximately St. 2m a day for every day of the year. This has gone on for years and this is the extent to which the barley industry has been contributing. But let us consider the question of excise in different light. We are talking of excise and the principle of excise and other taxation in order to raise revenue to do certain things in the field of social services. For how many years has the beer drinker been paying a great amount of excise? 
 Right. The beer drinker turned round on this occasion, well before the Budget came out, and said: 'I have been paying the excise for years on my glass of beer. It is about time the champagne drinkers and others who are not paying any kind of excise made their contribution.' Can anyone blame the poor old working man who likes his glass of beer for suggesting that the champagne drinkers should pay their share? The Opposition is supposed to represent the workers of this country. On this occasion the Government has' given recognition to the workers and has turned the excise attack to its own people, the so-called Liberals about whom we hear so much talk in this place. Their champagne is to be taxed and it is these people who will be paying. Yet today we have heard the Opposition condemning the Government for bringing in any excise, the great bulk of which will be paid by the so-called bad Liberals on their champagne and table wines. The poor old working man who likes his glass of beer has been protected by the Government in that he has to meet no increase this time. Yet the Opposition, their socalled protector, is now criticising the Government. We have agreed already that it is necessary to impose taxation. There are not many ways in which we can raise revenue by taxation, but this is one way. So I am surprised to hear the Opposition talking as it has today. 
Let us come back to the area of excise. There has been criticism of the petrol tax and criticism in so many areas about what happens to all this revenue. We have heard  Senator Bishop  talking about the need for improved transport in this country. We have heard  Senator Wriedt  dealing with transport. Transport is one of the most essential areas of communication in modern society. Australia is a country of great magnitude with vast distances to be covered. We have areas of dense population with great areas of low population in between. As we all know, it costs much money to maintain sealed roads and to improve our road system throughout Australia. The Government has accepted its responsibility. We all know what happened last year when an economic assessment was made of the road transport system of Australia. In carrying out this assessment the Government acted responsibly. 
The Commonwealth has made big contributions to the States for roads. But how do we pay for the roads? By imposing an excise on fuel. That is one way of making a great contribution. Also it means that the man who uses the roads most and therefore uses the most fuel is the man who makes the greatest contribution towards the cost of the roads. Do honourable senators opposite suggest that we should increase taxation? Do they suggest that we should increase excise in other areas so that the poor old working man, who perhaps does not own a motor car, will make his contribution towards roads that are used by other people? 
Let us be realistic about this. I do not think there is one honourable senator opposite who would not say that improved transport is a necessity in this country. But asI have said before, this has to be paid for and this is what the Commonwealth and State governments collectively are doing. We know that the road systems are being gradually improved. We know that we have much more to do in the rural areas where main roads have to be maintained and in the urban areas where, as  Senator Wriedt  said, we have a great problem because the roads are being choked by traffic. AsI understand that it is proposed to adjourn at 4 p.m., I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What is the position regarding Commonwealth assistance to a State for drought relief? Is this assistance in the form of an interest free grant, or is it a repayable loan bearing an interest factor? Do any State Governments charge farmers interest on drought relief and finance which has been provided by interest free non-repayable grants from the Commonwealth Government? * 
Yesterday  Senator Laucke  asked me a general question about this matter. He had asked questions previously. It may be that  Senator Young  has asked questions previously. Indeed, today on a broader canvass  Senator Murphy  asked me a question about this matter of relief. Dealing with the particularity of the question, I. did seek some supplementary information yesterday following question time. In one respect I have an answer which I will give. The Government's position regarding assistance to State governments for drought or any other natural disaster relief has been made clear on a number of recent occasions and is summarised in a White Paper 'Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1970- 71' in chapter 3 at page 43. This paper will give the story on much the lines that I have given it here before but with particularity as to certain States and amounts. 
The general position is that where it is considered that the cost of drought relief would place an undue burden on a State's finances the Commonwealth is normally prepared to assist the State governments in financing expenditure on certain relief measures. Recently Commonwealth assistance has been offered on the basis that the States concerned meet expenditure up to a certain amount from their own resources - this was the point I made - with the Comonwealth meeting the full cost in excess of that amount. In determining the amount to be met by individual States account is taken of the difference in resources available to each State. The aim is to ensure that each State is accorded equal treatment. For example, New South Wales is meeting the first $4m of expenditure on drought relief in 1970-71 - that was a point 1 brought out yesterday - plus certain other expenditure of a similar nature. South Australia is meeting the first Slim of drought relief expenditure in 1970-71 and Queensland is meeting $2m of drought relief expenditure in that State for 1970-71. 
Co m monwea1 1 h reimbursements - th is comes to the issue which the honourable senator is now asking about - under all drought relief arrangements take the form of loans where the States themselves make loans. Other reimbursements take the form of grants. The Commonwealth loans to the States are interest free and repayable - that would be in relation to the capital sum - over a period of  8  years following a 2-year repayment holiday. The administration of drought relief schemes, including the terms and conditions of drought loans to farmers, is entirely a matter for the State governments concerned. The Commonwealth has agreed, however, that " to cover administrative costs and losses there would be no objection to the States charging interest on the loans. It is understood that the States normally charge a concessional rate of interest not exceeding 3 per cent. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, refers to the new higher primary school being built by the Commonwealth Government at a cost of $515,000 on Groote Eylandt. Can the Minister say what level of education the students can attain at this school? 
I direct a question to  the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. I refer to the fact that at present in Australia there is a visiting parliamentary delegation from Cambodia. What steps have been taken to enable these Cambodian politicians to tell the Australian people, via the media of radio and television, of the tragedies and loss of life that have befallen Cambodia since it was mercilessly invaded by North Vietnamese forces? 
The honourable senator's question follows somewhat the pattern of the question asked a short time ago by  Senator McManus.  This question is related to the normal media for publication of the tragic experiences that Cambodians have had to endure.  Senator McManus's  question related to an opportunity being made available for the visiting politicians to discuss this matter with parliamentarians. I think I should take both questions together and endeavour to obtain information, which I hope will be available tomorrow. 
1  have listened with a great deal of interest to all of  Senator Murphy's  remarks including the irrelevant remarks which comprised most of his speech. I was very interested in his final words when he said that no other Opposition senators would speak on this subject tonight because they spoke on it yesterday. It is very interesting when one reflects that yesterday the proceedings of the Senate were being broadcast; today they are not. What the Opposition thinks it will gain by trying to get its message over to the people by means of the radio, I would not know. It shows very clearly how little Opposition members know about primary industry and about the intelligence of the farming community. If they think for one moment that the waffling they were putting over the air yesterday, and wanted to put over the air yesterday, would convince the farming community, then they are not giving the farmers due credit because the farmers are intelligent people. To be frank, I only wish that  Senator Murphy's  remarks were being broadcast. I would have loved Ihe farming community to hear his remarks tonight, so many of which were irrelevant. 
Fortunately for primary industry one cannot delve very deeply into the history of Labor administration in this country, but there are some very interesting points in it. I used to be amazed that they made so many mistakes with regard to primary industry but having tonight heard  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Opposition in this place, I am no longer amazed. In reply to an interjection by  Senator Maunsell  he said: 'Oh, yes, but this board was set up after July. Does the dairy industry have a board? Does the apple industry have a board? Does the dried fruits industry have a board?' If he knew the slightest thing about primary industry he would be aware that all of those sections of the- industry have their boards, and have had them, not since July but for many years. In fact, most of those industries have had boards since the end of the 1939-45 war. This alone shows the complete ignorance of honourable senators on the Opposition side. 
They have been saying that they are concerned about primary industry, yet their own Leader asks whether the various sections of the industry have their own board. I have never grown an apple in my life, nor have I grown any dried fruits, but I know that those industries have boards. I have worked very closely with other boards in primary industry and I know their responsibilities. I also know the per sonnel of many of those boards and I know how responsible they are, not only to their own industry but also the Government and to the nation. It appears, however, that the Opposition is not even conscious that a lot of those boards exist. As far as I am concerned, the Opposition exercise while the Senate proceedings were being broadcast yesterday was pure political hypocrisy. They wanted to get some kind of message over to the farming community in an endeavour to convince the farmers that the Labor Party is the farmers friend. 
It is the misfortune of the Labor Party that so many people engaged in primary industry today can recall the time when the present Opposition was in government. In addition, very many of them have had a taste of Labor administration in their States. If Opposition senators think they can convince the farmers in my State that they would be better in Government than in Opposition they will have to do a jolly sight better than they have done because the present State government in South Australia did so much damage to primary industry when it was in office previously that it will take a jolly long time to recover. It is only because we have a bicameral system that they were saved by this Upper House from an iniquitous tax when one of the Labor Party's famous economists said that §40,000 was a living area. 
He made the statement; I did not. This is what I am getting at. The rest of the farmers would have been taxed out of the industry because of State succession duties. If I can carry this exercise further - no doubt  Senator Maunsell  will take this up - the Labor Party had the opportunity not many months ago to support an amendment which was moved by the Democratic Labor Party to give only an indication to the Government on the abolition of probate duty. Not one Labor senator crossed the chamber. But let me put it on record again that I did, and so did others. Not one Labor senator walked across the chamber, and yet we hear them expounding all the terrible things about taxation and giving all their sympathies to those engaged in primary industry. Here was a chance for them to abolish one of the iniquitous areas as far as the farmer and his dependants ure concerned, but the Labor Party chose to let the opportunity pass. 
The suggestion was made yesterday -  Senator Murphy  has been speaking about it tonight - that the problem is so urgent, so immediate, that we should set up terms of reference and give them to a standing committee. I thought that  Senator Murphy  would be aware that at the present time that standing committee has a job on its plate. The Senate is overloaded with committees. It will be very difficult for this committee to function effectively for some time - this is my personal view - because most of the members who have been appointed to it are already sitting on other select committees and have obligations to them. Let us go further. If the other recommendation that has been put forward to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade could be dealt with in February or March, the terms of reference that have been laid down by the Opposition are so wide that they cover the whole ambit of the industry and, if it did its job effectively, the Committee would be lucky to finish within a period of years. I  refer,  for example, to the Tariff Board inquiry into the textiles industry. We were told today at a hearing of an Estimates Committee that the Board sat for about 7 years inquiring into the textiles industry. Let us compare the textiles industry with the broad scope of the primary industries which produce wheat, wool, dairy products, dried fruits, canned fruits, fresh fruits, fish, apples, pears, and other products. So many problems are involved, but the Opposition wants this Parliament to have an inquiry conducted by a Standing Committee. It says that the matter is. urgent and should be handled immediately. That is the greatest political waffle I have ever heard. I have no doubt that I will hear more political waffle if I stay here long enough and listen to members of the present Opposition. 
Half the trouble of honourable senators opposite is that they do not understand logic. If they would come back to earth and listen they would learn. They have not even learned that there are so many boards in primary industries. I suggest that they sit back now and listen.  Senator Murphy  tonight criticised and condemned the Australian Democratic Labor Party for proposing the establishment of a Royal Commission. I also do not support the establishment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the rural industries, but the honourable senator went on to say many times that the Government will not do this. 
Let us work it out logically and arithmetically. This place can be an arena for the numbers game. 1 invite honourable senators opposite to tot up the numbers of the Opposition and the DLP. Do not come to us and say that the Government will not do k. I have seen honourable senators opposite beg for the supporting votes of the DLP to defy the Government or to block legislation, sometimes successfully. But on this matter  Senator Murphy  waffles out of it by saying that the Government will not do it. Do not pass the buck to the Government. Stand on your own feet and admit that you did not want it done. Do not pass it to us. If the Opposition had cared to support the DLP it could have carried the day in this chamber. 
I suggest to  Senator Wilkinson  that he start adding up the numbers. I am getting very sick of watching crocodile tears being shed in the Senate. Tonight  Senator Douglas  Scott referred to a statement by  Senator Poke.  It is reported in Hansard of 22nd September at page 728.  Senator Poke  asked: 
What action does the Government intend to prevent this dissentient and scruffy minority disrupting proper processes of taw and order? 
The honourable senator is referring to a march by farmers. 
 I am quoting  Senator Poke,  If  Senator O'Byrne  is not satisfied with that one we will turn our attention to what  Mr Berinson,  the honourable member for Perth, is reported to have said at page 618 of Hansard of 27th August. The report states: 
In my brief experience In the Parliament 1 have found myself continuously impressed at the proportion of the Parliament's time and concern which is devoted to matters of specific rural interest This occupation with rural problems is very marked, even considered In isolation, but it  becomes quite remarkable when contrasted against the virtual absence of any Commonwealth interest in specifically urban matters. 
Again the Government was being criticised for devoting too much time to the primary industries. I appreciate that the Opposition is divided, and it is not just a division between the House of Representatives and the Senate. But 1 thought members of the Opposition would have a little coordination when putting things on record. This is wonderful ammunition for the farmers to hear and to read. But we do not have to stop there. We can look to the words of  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, the Leader of the Opposition in the other place. I direct the attention of honourable senators to page 78 of the Senate Hansard of 19th August where the words of  Mr Whitlam  are reported. The report states: 
Too much attention is being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas and too little to the needs of cities, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, said last night. By derivation, civilised men are those who live in cities - pagans are those who live in the country 
The rural dwellers will love that. 
 Mr E.  G. Whitlam. 
 I quoted from Hansard. If  Senator O'Byrne  wants me to go right back I will find the paper for him. Let us not worry about that. Let us have a look at the various industries. 
 If 1 am challenged 1 will get a copy of the Press statement. Tonight we have heard  Senator Murphy  say that we will sit here in the Senate chamber until the Bill for the wool industry comes forward, lt was very pleasing to hear  Senator Murphy  say that. We have seen the Opposition change horses so often in regard to the wool industry that we wonder which way it will jump next. When the reserve price plan was proposed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference it had the full backing of the Australian Labor Party. The Australian Wool Indus fry Conference by another vote recommended the lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams. The ALP refused to accept that decision. It went even further and questioned the responsibilities and representation within the AWIC. I was glad to hear  Senator Murphy  say that he will stay here and make sure that this time legislation is introduced for the proposed wool marketing scheme. 
Honourable senators opposite may not be aware that these proposals have come forward from a committee that was set &lt;ip by the wool industry and is comprised of representatives with expertise on the subject. After its recommendations were backed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference the Opposition did not object to them. 1 am very pleased that the Opposition does not object, but I am wondering how much politics is involved and how much responsibility. I cannot help but say that, because this is the third time that the Opposition has changed its mind about the AWIC. 
I could spend a lot more time in discussing the wool industry, but I think I should turn now to consider the wheat industry. Today there is a great world wide surplus of wheat. Canada has a surplus of about 800 million bushels and the United States of America about 860 million bushels. Estimates made as late as 3 weeks ago are that the carry-over of the Australian crop this year and the expected harvest will create a surplus, after harvest receivals, of over 500 million bushels. At the same time, one of these boards of whose existence the Opposition evidently is not aware - the Australian Wheat Board - is doing a magnificent job. This year it will sell in the vicinity of 360 million bushels of wheat - the second greatest amount of wheat ever sold in the history of the Australian industry. This is happening in a year that started off as one of great gloom with regard to sales throughout the world. Yet the Wheat Board has been able to do this. I believe that what it has achieved this year shows clearly its responsibility, energy and drive. It also shows the problem that exists in the Australian wheat industry. 
The Opposition is talking about what it would do for primary industry. Let us go back and look at the facts. Let us go back to when the Australian Labor Party was in government. We go back to the year 1945-46. 
 There is no need to. That is far enough. The Australian Labor Party may have set up the Australian Wheat Board on a majority vote of the wheat industry; but, having set it up, in 1945-46 the then Labor Government decided to do its own marketing behind the back of the Wheat Board - the board which had been set up by the wheat industry and which should have been given the responsibilities and respect that it deserved, I have certain papers in my office. 1 propose to refer now to the actual sales. 
 If 1 am wrong,  Senator Murphy  can tell me what the figures were. In 1945-46 a forward sale was made to New Zealand, lt covered a 5-year period and involved 18 million bushels of wheat. At that stage we were producing only a small amount of wheat. Tn the first year of the 5-year period - 1945-46 - there was a quota of 4i million bushels. Another 13+ million bushels was to be sold over the next 4 years. 
The interesting point is that for the first year the Australian Government accepted from New Zealand a price of 9s 6d a bushel; but for the next 4 years the price was dropped to 5s 9d. One might say: Perhaps the world price dropped and that was the reason why the price to New Zealand dropped'. But when we look at the world price of wheat during that period, what do we find? We find that the prices on the world markets rose to between 15s Id and 18s 5d. That is what the Australian wheat industry lost because of forward selling by the then Labor Government which did the selling instead of the Wheat Board. 
 We are hearing interjections with regard to various matters. I want to quote what  Mr McEwen,  the present  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry, said, as reported in Hansard of 16th October 1947. He said that a few weeks before he asked the following question of the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture: 
In view of the suggestion that the Commonwealth Government may enter into a contract, perhaps a long term contract, for the sale of wheat to the United Kingdom, will the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture give an undertaking that no commitments for the sale of wheat, which represents the livelihood of our wheat growers, will be made without first securing the fullest advice of the Australian Wheat Board on all aspects of the proposals, as the sale of substantial parcels of wheat without the full knowledge and advice of the Board would represent a complete negation of the purposes for which it was established and render utterly valueless the placing of a majority of growers on the Board? 
The answer that came from the then 
Minister was: 
The submission made by the honourable member will be given consideration. 
That was the only way the question was answered. Since that time, under Liberal governments the Australian Wheat Board has been as effective and efficient as any other marketing body in existence in Australia. lt has done its job as a responsible body with its own identity and not with Government interference. So, one wonders what the farmers will think when they hear these great words of wisdom coming from members of the Opposition as to what they would do if they gained the reins of government. History can repeat itself. The farmers are not fools. They will not take any chances of letting history repeat itself. So, there is no worry that that will happen. 
Criticism has been levelled on the basis of what should be done for primary industry, what is not being done for primary industry and the claim that basically the Government is not even conscious of the fact that there is a problem in primary industry. I have said many times that we ail know that there are problems in primary industry. We all can name most of the reasons why there are problems in primary industry. They are easy to name. But it is jolly difficult to come up with constructive recommendations that will solve all the problems that exist in primary industry. I repeat that the farmers are not fools. They are not prepared to accept any immediate, short term, gimmicky sell. They know that in the long term there is a price to be paid for these things, and all they are looking for is a fair go and security. 
What is the Government doing? In the dairy industry, as we know, it is providing $25m over 4 years for the reconstruction of dairy farms. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  announced in the Budget that the Department of Primary Industry was urgently examining the question of wool industry reconstruction and would report to the Government. That is being done. We know that at the present time, on the recommendation of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is having a very close look at what can be done with regard to reconstruction within sections of primary industry, not just on the physical side in farm reconstruction but also in financial and debt reconstruction. These things are being done. So, when we hear that the Government should set to work and do something, all I can say is that I wish members of the Opposition would listen and take notice of what is being done. The Government is making every endeavour, in a constructive manner, to assist primary industry as much as it possibly can, according to the physical and financial ability of the country. (Quorum formed.) 
I am still disappointed,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that there are not many members of the Opposition in the chamber even though the bells have been rung for a quorum. I appreciate the point made by the Leader of the Opposition while the quorum was being formed that members of his Party are attending committee meetings and have other responsibilities at the present time. But all I can say to  Senator Murphy,  through you  Mr Acting Deputy President,  is that I still regret their absence because they cannot hear a few of the facts of life about rural industries. 
 If that comment by  Senator Murphy  is recorded I reply that the wisdom is on this side of the chamber. We do not have to be told of the problems of primary industry or what the Government is trying to do. We are conscious of that. However, I wish members of the Opposition here tonight to hear it because I am afraid they will not bother to read it tomorrow. I was talking about what the 
Government is doing. 1 will be brief because my time is running out. Let me refer to drought. Since 1965 the Government has given in excess of $106m for drought relief alone. It has gone further and has provided for a $30m scheme to help wool growers affected by drought and low prices. It did that on a single year short term basis. There is the immediate aid that the Opposition has been talking about. There is an example of what the Government is doing. The Government also is providing loans to carry on restocking. It has assisted in the transport of livestock and fodder, as well as assisting local government authorities to provide employment for farmers in areas affected by drought. This Government also has made grants to the States. 
 Yes, those pagans that certain people talk about. 
That is right. We know that drought bonds have been introduced to assist the wool industry and growers frequently affected by drought. This will enable men on the land to have some security of tenure by taking out what is virtually an insurance policy. I could go on citing many things that this Government is doing and has done for primary industry. Another area of assistance is the superphosphate bounty, a bounty that comes on input. Last year it was increased by 50 per cent, and that was not a Senate election year. That assistance was given in time to help farmers with the current crop. 
Finally, there were many concessions in the probate field. This was a great concession. My views on that matter are known in this chamber. Opposition members should not talk about helping farmers. They did not help me when I said that I was prepared to oppose probate. They sat and barked but they did not act. It is action that we want in this place but they would not do anything so they should not start talking about these things now. The farmers are aware of their attitude. I hope that the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics will include some sound constructive recommendations and that the Government will be able to do as much as it wants to do to assist primary industry. 
As was mentioned by some other honourable senators, I hope that some day a rural advisory board will be set up to assist primary industry in the same way as the Tariff Board assists secondary industry. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, refers to the request in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's report for the introduction of colour television  in  Australia. Can the Minister say whether colour television is to be introduced before television services are further extended to outlying country areas? If so, what effect will that have on the extension of such services to country areas such as the upper Eyre Peninsula in South Australia- 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government.Is it not a fact that, according to Press reports this morning, the allegations made by a South Vietnamese student have been denied by the South Vietnamese Embassy? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONLn my answer to the first question on this matter asked by  Senator Wheeldon  I said that, as I understood the position, allegations had been made and a denial had been made. I am still of the same opinion, and I have nothing to add to what I said earlier. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen the report in today's Press that the South Australian Government will not support the Dartmouth Dam agreement? Is it a fact that this agreement is the same as that previously arrived at by the former Premier of South Australia,  Mr Hall,  and representatives of the New South Wales, Victorian and Commonwealth Governments for the building of Dartmouth Dam and investigations for future storages on the River Murray system? Does South Australia's present non-ratification mean that the building of Dartmouth Dam, which has already been delayed for 5 months, will be delayed indefinitely, denying South Australia a guaranteed increased water supply which it so urgently needs? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Would a 35-hour week add considerably to the cost structure of Australia adding greatly to the cost of living and adversely affecting primary industry and other sections of industry, particularly those which are developing an export trade? Does the Minister know whether the Australian Labor Party supports the policy of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  for the introduction of a 35-hour week? 
I believe - and I do not think it is arguable on an economic basis - that a 35-hour week, which would have a profound effect upon productivity, would have a disastrous effect on the economy unless there were a corresponding buildup of productivity. I do not think that is arguable. In view of the fact that shortly a matter of urgency will be debated, I have no doubt that I will have an opportunity to expand that argument. I also have some information as to where the Australian Labor Party stands on the introduction of a 35-hour week. I will bring that out at a later hour of the day. I will be able to produce documented evidence about where the Labor Party stands. 
Unfortunately, a lot of the time available to me has been taken up by the Opposition trying to apply the gag. Members of the Opposition should be censured on 2 counts of hypocrisy. Firstly, they have screamed and said: 'We do not believe in the gag', and then they have tried to apply the gag this afternoon in a debate initiated by them on a matter that they considered was one of urgency. Secondly, they have takenthe time of the Senate today to debate something that was debated in the House of Representatives yesterday. It was debated there yesterday because that House was on the air then; it has been debated in this chamber today because this chamber is now on the air even though the Senate has a lot of work ahead of it at the end of a session. Members of the Opposition have tried to get some political capital out of it. Then, right at the death knock, whenI was about to stand up and take part in this debate, they tried to apply the gag. But, thanks to the application of the principles of democracy by Government senators and members of the Democratic Labor Party, the debate has been kept alive. 
I have mentioned 2 areas of hypocrisy. How many more areas are there? We have heard members of the Australian Labor Party expressing great concern about the price squeeze, etc. Let me ask: What is the Labor Party doing about it? For a start, we know that one of the biggest factors in the whole of the cost structure is the wage structure and, combined with that, the weekly working hours structure and strikes. Do members of the Opposition support  Mr Hawke  in his contentions as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. with his militant approach to increases in wages, going beyond the realms of the arbitration system and even using the method of striking if necessary? We know what strikes cost the country. 
Do members of the Opposition support  Mr Hawke  when he is pressing for a 35-hour working week? He has already made the statement that after the Senate election he will start a campaign, supported if necessary by militant methods, to have a 35-hour working week introduced in Australia. Is it not amazing how members of the Opposition squeal when they are touched on a tender spot? We know from figures that have been given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Mc Ewen)  that if a 35-hour working week were introduced in this country it would cost between $2,000m and S2,700m. Who will pay that? Firstly, the consumer will have to pay a lot. 
Then let us move away from the local scene to the potential of our country. As we develop more on a secondary basis we will have to move into the export field. We see members of the Opposition crying crocodile tears about the plight of primary industry. What would a 35-hour working week mean to primary industry? What would it mean to the cost structure and our ability as an exporting nation - something that we are trying to develop? 1 ask members of the Opposition again whether they support the concept of introducing a 35-hour working week in Australia at the present stage. 
There has been much criticism of the Government on the basis of what it allegedly has not done, it is alleged that the cost structure is getting away from us. Australia today has one of the lowest rates of inflation in the world. Our rate of inflation is equal to that of West Germany, as one of the lowest in the  world.  Members of the Opposition have been talking about real incomes and the ability to purchase of the average working man in this country. Over the last 4 years we have seen average weekly earnings increase by about 7 per cent a year. At the same time prices have increased by only 3 per cent annually. This means in real terms that on an annual basis there has been an increase of 4 per cent in the standard of living. This is equal to the best that has been achieved by any country. 
There were many things that I would have liked to mention during this debate, but because of the gag moved by the Opposition 1 have been unable to do so. Members of the Australian Labor Party appear to love compulsion, but 1 can assure them that the average Australian likes his freedom and intends to have his freedom. Although honourable senators opposite scream about trying to help primary industry, a South Australian newspaper which came out today reported that a trade union has declared as black a farm on Kangaroo Island because the farmer will not employ union shearers. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether the recent increases in the freight rates applying to cargoes carried between Australia and the United Kingdom are due to many factors, the main one being disruption on the waterfront, including strikes, and another being wage increases, both of which had great bearing upon the increase in freight rates. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a Press report that  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, spoke from the same platform to open the Senate election campaign last night? Is it correct that  Mr Hawke,  in his speech, pressed for the introduction of a 35-hour working week? With  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hawke  speaking from the same platform to open the same Senate election campaign, does this not align  Mr Whitlam  and the Australian Labor Party with  Mr Hawke  and his policy of a 35-hour working week and the militant use of costly and disruptive strikes if necessary? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a report in today's Press that prices for some wools at the Sydney wool sales yesterday rose by between  2i  per cent and 5 per cent? Could this not be related to a reflection of confidence being shown in the wool industry following the passage in the House of Representatives the day before of the Bill dealing with wool marketing? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen Press reports that  Mr Whitlam  did not raise the question of a 35-hour week when delivering the Australian Labor Party policy speech for the Senate election. Is it a fact that the introduction of a 35-hour week and a further reduction to a 30-hour week is official ALP policy? Does the Minister know of any reason why  Mr Whitlam  omitted to mention the 35-hour week issue whereas  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions speaking from the same platform made it his main issue? 
1 rise to support this Bill, which is a most important Bill concerning a most" important industry. When it is carried today, as I hope it will be, it will create history for the Australian wool industry. At the outset I congratulate not only the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government on what they have done in bringing this legislation forward but also the industry leaders, including the gentlemen who, assisted by the advisory committee to the Australian Wool Board, have finally brought us to a position in which today we have before this Parliament a new method of marketing wool which could have a far reaching and beneficial effect on the industry not just in the short term but also in the long term. 1 am very pleased to see that the Opposition also is giving its support to this Bill. After all, this matter is far beyond the realm of party politics. I accept that the Opposition will give its full support. The wool industry will then know that the parties comprising the Parliament are giving solid backing to these proposals. Naturally I accept that honourable members opposite will carry out the role of the Opposition and look for faults in the Bill. I am particularly pleased today, as I was when I read the Hansard report of the debate in the House of Representatives, to note how little criticism of this Bill can be found.  Senator Cant  did say in the debate today - it is rather an unusual remark for him - that it probably is the worst piece of legis lation he has seen since he has been  a  member of this chamber. I question the validity of that remark because the Opposition has been able to point only to little things within the Bill - functional things which require flexibility. There must be flexibility in so many of these areas. In some ways we are entering the world of the unknown and no doubt the industry as well as the Parliament will be watching these things closely as time goes on so that we can amend the legislation to make the Australian Wool Commission an even more effective authority. I hope this responsibility will be accepted by all those within the wool industry and within the Parliament. 
I want to refer to some of the comments made by members of the Opposition in this debate.  Senator Wilkinson  criticised one area. He said that the Commission should have a majority of growers represented on it. There is a place for growers on the authority and it is right that they should have this place. But let us be honest and factual; this authority must be composed of some of the best men that we can get in this country. We must have some of the best men from the wool industry to accept responsibility as representatives of the industry. We also must have some of the best men we can get from areas of trade, commerce and finance in order to make the Commission function. The Commission will not be an ordinary type of committee consisting of a few gentlemen meeting and discussing what might happen. It will be charged with great responsibility and any honest man will accept his responsibilities. Specialists will be needed to accept responsibilities in certain fields. It is necessary to get a broad representation in order to cover all the areas to be affected by this Commission as well as those that it will affect. Provision has been has been made in the Bill to get the best personnel available in order to make the Commission as effective as humanly and commercially possible. 
Turning now to the composition of the authority, it will be headed by a  chairman.  I believe he must be one of the top marketing men in Australia, competent and experienced. I hope this will be the case. Then there is provision for 2 members to represent the Australian wool growers. The industry will have the choice. There is no doubt that it will appoint 2 of its most responsible and experienced members. There is to be a member to represent the Commonwealth Government and 3 other members.  Senator McClelland  referred to this point. These 3 men will have to come from areas involved in the handling and marketing of wool or wool products, the processing of wool or the manufacture of wool products, or they must have experience in commerce, finance and economics. These 3 members will be drawn from those areas. The Minister for Primary Industry saw the need to ensure that this Commission will be a very competent one comprising men of ability and experience. I commend the Minister and others associated with this Bill for making sure that the kernel of this marketing change will be the best possible. 

 Senator Cant said that history showed that the Government would not support the reserve price plan.  Senator Milliner  said the same thing. This is not true. History clearly shows that the Government gave all possible support to the wool industry. lt accepted responsibility for the wool industry and endeavoured to bring about various improvements within its overall operations. I must correct what I thought was a legitimate mistake by  Senator Cant.  He said that  Sir William  Gunn stomped the country opposing the reserve price plan.  Senator Cant  is looking for the proof of his speech and no doubt he will find that that is what he said. I accept that this was a legitimate mistake on his part and that he did not mean what he implied. 
 I am noi interested in what  Senator Milliner  said; I am referring to the remarks of  Senator Cant.  I want to refer again to the comment made about the Government's responsibility. I refer the Senate to page 2879 of the Hansard report of the proceedings in the House of Representatives.  Dr Rex  Patterson, the shadow Minister for Primary Industry in the House of Representatives said: 
Until a few months ago - until this year - when the finances of the wool industry started to deteriorate seriously, nothing was being done to stabilise wool prices except talk, and to the great credit of the wool growers of Australia, they took the matter into their own hands. 
This shows very clearly how little  Dr Patterson  knows about the history of the wool industry. This Government not only accepts responsibility for it but gives the industry responsibility. I refer the Senate to the Australian Wool Industry Conference set up in 1962. It is a non-statutory body to which a statutory body, the Australian Wool Board, is responsible. To my knowledge there is no other body in this Commonwealth that has been given that power and charged with that responsibility. It is sheer and utter nonsense for  Dr Patterson  to say that all of a sudden at least the industry had done something because the Government had not bothered to do anything along these lines. I speak with first hand knowledge of the Australian Wool Industry Conference because I was a foundation member of it. The Australian Wool Industry Conference set out, from its inception, to look at proposed changes in the method of handling all our wool. This is not anything new. It is not a case of the industry suddenly, out of the blue, coming to light with some proposals. The industry has put proposals forward before. Unfortunately the proposal recommending a reserve price plan when put by referendum to the industry was lost. Ever since then the Wool Industry Conference and the Goverment have recognised that there is need for changes, not only in the marketing system but also in the physical handling of our wool. These aspects have been looked at constantly. 
In dealing with this subject I would like to go further. In 1.966 the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Industry Conference set up two ad hoc committees to look at the various aspects of the physical side of the preparation of our clip. One committee was to look at the possibility of the elimination of the small lots which had a high cost factor in selling. It was considering the elimination of the 1, 2 and 3 bale lots and the overall preparation of the Australian wool clip. The other committee was set up to look at what effects private buying had on the overall marketing of the Australian wool clip. This was an example of the industry doing something for itself, of making an honest endeavour to do something to assist and improve the industry. ft is interesting to deal further with this comment that nothing has been done. I refer next to what is known as the price averaging plan which includes also the elimination of the I, 2 and 3 bale lots. That scheme was set up by the industry, it is in operation, and it is working most effectively today. I took a very keen interest in the effect of the price averaging plan and the results of the ad hoc committee which investigated the elimination of the 1, 2 and 3 bale lots and the standard of the preparation of the Australian wool clip, because I was one wool grower who spent some months on a committee studying the overall situation. When we hear this tripe being talked today about various sections, including the Government, passing the buck for so long, we know that the comment is entirely wrong and that it is purely a political comment made at a time of a Senate election when certain people in a Party are looking for political mileage. 
There has been much criticism to the effect that the Government has rushed in this legislation because we are to have a Senate election. Let me make it perfectly clear that the industry has been looking very closely at the possibility of changes in the marketing system. Acting on a recommendation of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Australian Wool Board set up a special advisory body to look into the areas in which changes could be made in the marketing of our wool, not only as to method but also as to the physical side. This advisory committee was set up in March of this year. It made its final report to the Australian Wool Board in July. But in addition to this, the Australian Wool Board, in conjunction with the two major Federal wool growing bodies - the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council - finally put a report through to the overall parliament of the Australian wool industry, that is the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which presented its recommendation to the Federal Government on 7th July 1970. 
Since then the Government has acted very promptly. It appointed as an adviser  Sir John  Crawford who is one of the top economists in this country and, incidentally, the foundation  chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference.  His  background knowledge of the overall problems of the wool industry and his sound background as an economist enabled him to be a very effective adviser. He considered the report from the Australian Wool Industry Conference and then presented his report to the Government on 14th October. Today is 30th October. Instead of this criticism of the Government, I feel that if each and every one of us in this chamber, irrespective of Party, was truthful we would be sincerely congratulating and thanking the Minister for Primary Industry, the Cabinet, the Parliamentary Draftsman and all those who have been involved in bringing the Bill forward to us so that we in this place can legislate and have this marketing authority set up and brought into operation. If it is not done this week the industry will have to wait for another 6 months. 
Today we have heard the Opposition talking about the desperate plight of the wool industry. Nobody denies that this is the situation in the industry, and we all are concerned about it. But by this measure the Government is making an honest endeavour to implement, as quickly as it can, a plan which is based on the advice of authorities and which will be as effective as any plan could be for the industry. Although the Government has done this, the Opposition sees fit to condemn il rather than to commend it. Quite frankly, I am very surprised that the Opposition has seen fit to criticise this important piece of legislation. As I have said before, the Opposition is entitled to do this and it is here to criticise and to do what it can to improve legislation, but T am surprised that on this occasion it has seen fit to accuse the Government of trying to play politics. I do not suppose there has been any occasion when a government has acted with more expedition and more responsibility. 
This afternoon the Opposition mentioned that it would like to see an acquisition plan. It is strange how political philosophy often seems to float to the surface. Today we see this old philosophy of compulsion and regimentation floating to the surface. Honourable senators opposite want an acquisition plan. Again I commend the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry for allowing flexibility to remain, for giving a freedom of choice to the wool grower to sell his wool as he sees best. This is the right of the individual grower. If circumstances change and the growers say that they want to see some change, and overall it is considered that there should be further changes, let us consider the situation then; but let us not start charging in like a bull at a gate and doing foolish things. Let us leave a few freedoms with our growers, but let us also do the best that we can for them. 
There has been a lot of talk, as I have said, about acquisition and a price being set. [ question who would set the price at this stage, but quite apart from that I suggest that the Opposition should look at the other end of the pipeline. We are not the only ones in this game. The wool growers are not the only link in the chain, nor i* the broker the only other link. The chain goes much further. The other end of the chain is at the other side of the world where there are manufacturers who perhaps have certain loyalties to the industry. Perhaps they have been with us for generations, but we must remember also .that they have a hip pocket nerve. They will not buy our wool just out of loyalty if we start to raise prices. This would have the effect of frightening them out of the business or forcing them out of the business, because they have an alternative in synthetics. They could turn to synthetics. So I suggest to the Opposition that it should look at the other end of this chain and get away from political philosophies. It should look at realities, including economic realities, when it begins to talk of compulsion in this area. 
Much has been said about what the Commission will do and what it will not do. 1 believe we are leaving certain freedoms with the growers so that they have a chance to use various methods of selling their wool - even private selling, if they so desire. I am all for this. Perhaps one day the industry may need to have another look at this but at this stage I am al) for leaving this right of flexibility with the grower. Then we come to the reserve price which is allowed for in this overall scheme. It is a flexible reserve price that is set up purely to take the peaks and the troughs or the potholes out of the market. 
The reserve price scheme will be operated by the Commission and will be on a flexible basis. It will not be fixed for a whole season. The reserve price itself could be fixed on a day to day basis or at frequent intervals and will be fixed for certain types of wool offered at auction. This will be determined after consideration of many factors, such as recent prices paid by commercial buyers and any other aspects that have been compiled by market intelligence. In relation to the actual operation of the scheme, if the bidding on any lot does not reach the reserve price, the Commission would be prepared and able to purchase the wool at that price. The wool purchased by the Commission would be re-offered at auction or disposed of by some other means. The grower would retain his rights to place his own reserve price on his wool. So again we have freedoms coming in. The grower would retain his right to place his own reserve price on his wool, except in the case of wool included in the price averaging plan or voluntarily pool. I have already dealt with this aspect with regard to the elimination of 1, 2 and 3-bale lots. 
Another very important aspect of the scheme -  Senator McClelland  said today that the Government suddenly realised that something should be done about it - is the standard of preparation of our wool clip.  His  suggestion is so much eyewash, lt is a pity that the Opposition did not spend a bit of time going through the history of what has taken place in the wool industry. The requirement for a wool classer to be registered has been in operation for a long time. That proposal was adopted to improve the standard of preparation of the clip. Other things have come in with the PAP. The Commission can go further and remove certain wools from the floor if they are badly prepared. So those who have accepted their responsibility in the industry will not be disadvantaged by those who are not prepared to do anything at all about the standards of preparation of the wool. This is also included in the Bill, but it has been in operation since before the Bill was introduced. So let us not start talking this nonsense about these things being thought of only in the last week and having suddenly come into the Parliament today just before the Senate election. In reality these things have been in operation for quite some time. 
I have mentioned the PAP. It is also included in the provisions of the Bill and will continue to operate. Growers have the chance, if they wish, to put other lots of wool into the voluntary pool. Many other things are provided for. The Commission has power to sell wool other than by auction. This again is a very important function. lt allows flexibility but it also allows the grower the opportunity of saying yea or nay. The Commission is empowered to purchase wool in 2 ways. It can do it through the operation of its flexible reserve price scheme after the wool has been offered at auction or - I want to emphasise this - with the consent of the grower, before the wool is offered at auction in cases where it is considered that the wool cannot advantageously be sold at auction. So this gives the Commission flexibility and gives the grower his democratic right of saying yea or nay to these things. [ believe that is very important. lt will be seen in the provisions of the Bill that the Government has bent over backwards to leave as much power and right with the grower as it possibly can in order to give the most effective protection and assistance to the grower. So the Government has tried to assist the industry in every way it can. I believe that it should not be difficult to go to those engaged in the industry throughout this countryside and talk over this plan with them. There are 2 main features here - the genuine desire to get maximum mileage to do as much as possible for the industry and the individual grower, and at the same time the desire for the protection of the individual grower's rights. These are very important points. 
I come now to the physical side of the wool industry, which is the overall handling of wool. There are different methods in the marketing and presentation of the wool clip. Also there is a very great cost factor in the buying of our wool today. The Government in its Budget allowed quite a large sum of money - I think it was $lim - for research into methods of preparing the clip and assessing the quality of the clip. The Bill provides for research into other methods of aiding the efficient marketing of wool. I refer to such things as micro-measurement, core testing and things of that nature. Instead of the present method of pouring one great heap of wool out of a bale, there will be basket samples. All of these things could mean great savings to the industry, to the buyers, and possibly in time there may be greater efficiencies in many of these areas. We hope that this will reflect itself in savings not only for the buyers but also, if the buyers co-operate, for the wool growers. 
Under the provisions of this Bill the Government is prepared to pay half the costs of wool broking charges. On top of this it will continue its research programme and look into all aspects of the overall marketing of our wool. There are many fields in which great changes and savings can be made. So on this aspect alone there are great advantages. The Government is willing to back the reserve price scheme unconditionally for the first 12 months, to do all it can to make sure that the potholes can be taken out of the market and the grower will get the maximum benefit from this new wool marketing procedure. I commend the Bill to the Parliament. I congratulate the Government in introducing it. We hope it will do a lot for the industry overall. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it not a fact that, at thetime Cambodia was attacked and invaded by North Vietnam, General Lon Nol, the Prime Minister of Cambodia at that time, requested aid from Australia in the form of communications equipment and not arms, 
On 14 April 1970, shortly after Cambodia was attacked and invaded by the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces, the Prime Minister, General Lon Nol, made an appeal for assistance to all nations of which the following is a translation: 
Consistent with the clauses of the Geneva Agreement and provisions of our national constitution, Cambodia may in a case of danger, make appeal to all countries, no matter what bloc they belong to, to provide it with arms and materials. Conscious of its duty and its mission, within the framework of our strict neutrality, continually reaffirmed by our actions and by our statements, notably the international press conference of 30 March 1970, the Government of Salvation has the duty to inform the nation that because of the gravity of the present situation, it is faced with the necessity of accepting, from this moment, all unconditional external aid from whatever source, for the good of the nation.' 
The exact composition of Australia's contribution to Cambodia's defence against Vietnamese Communist aggression has been and is being determined in the light of consultations with the Cambodian Government. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry supplementary to that asked by  Senator Cant.  Is it not an economic fact that any cost factor affecting any industry in Australia is reflected ultimately throughout the economy, including primary industry, so that any increase in the cost of production in any industry in Australia will have an effect upon primary industry? Therefore would a 35-hour week not have an adverse effect upon primary industry? 
Has - the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen the comment in today's Press to the effect that the Premier of South Australia has finally backed down and indicated his acceptance of the Dartmouth Dam agreement? If this comment ;s correct will the Minister . indicate when a start will be made on the Dartmouth Dam, which is urgently needed to supply further water to South Australia and which, unfortunately, has already been delayed by many months because of the attitude of the Premier of South Australia? 
 I direct a question to the Leader of the Government v/ho represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. What is the difference between the price per barrel of crude- oil now imported into Australia and the price per barrel fixed for oil from Bass Strait and other indigenous areas? What is the annual saving to Australia as a result of this difference? What would bc the increase in the price of petrol if indigenous oil were now sold at the same price as imported oil? 
Obviously I could not provide information of that nature at question time. I suggest that the question go on notice. As always I will attempt to get a prompt answer for the honourable senator, lt seems to- me that that information should be available and I will get it as quickly as possible. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. I ask the Minister whether he has seen the report that a United Nations conference has reached agreement on a new wheat trade convention but that the convention does not cover prices. Can the Minister say what effect this will have on Australia's wheat selling capacity, particularly in view of competition from countries such as Canada and the United States of America? Further, will this mean that countries within the European Economic Community will be able to sell or to dump their heavily subsidised surplus production on overseas markets? 
With respect to prices, it will be appreciated that the pricing provisions of the International Grains Arrangement have not been operative for some time. Yet world prices are currently around the minimum level specified in that agreement, and Australia's wheat exports last year were at near record level. There was widespread support at the conference for international orderly marketing of wheat by all wheat exporters including the United States of America, Canada and the European Economic Community. The new agreement also leaves open the possibility of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics joining that agreement. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is an important wheat country which was not in the International Grains Arrangement. Finally, it is reasonable to believe that with continuing consultation and co-operation it is unlikely that a responsible member of the Agreement will dump in overseas markets. 
Yesterday I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question regarding the difference between the price of imported oil and the price per barrel of oil from Bass Strait and other indigenous oil. I asked what the saving would be to the Australian nation, and, further, the difference in the price of petrol if indigenous oil were sold at the same price as imported oil. Does the Minister have an answer lo that question? 
Yes. 1 promised to seek some information and I have been supplied with it. The question was: What is the difference between the price per barrel of crude oil now imported and the price per barrel fixed for oil from Bass Strait and other indigenous areas? The answer is that the present price of indigenous crude oil was based on the import parity price for imported crude oil in 1968. Leaving aside a quality differential determined for Australian oil, the import parity price in relation to which the Australian price is set for 5 years, is S 1.89c per barrel. If overseas prices and freight increases which have taken place since that time are taken into account the import parity price today would be $2.31 per barrel - an increase of 42c per barrel. The overseas price will increase year by year. Assuming that present freight rates remain the same, the price will be $2.65 by 1975- an increase of 76c over the basic price of indigenous crude oil. 
The second question was: What is the annual saving to Australia as a result of this difference, it is expected that the consumption of crude oil in Australia during 1971 will be approximately 190 million barrels. If supplies of indigenous crude were not available and Australia were fully dependent on overseas crude oil, the recent overseas price rise would increase Australia's import bill for crude oil by $63m over a 12-month period. However, this amount will increase progressively with further overseas price rises, which have already been agreed upon, and the expected growth of refinery requirements. 
1 have listened with a great deal of interest to the debate. The one conclusion I come to very easily is that once again the Australian Labor Party is supporting a minority. I think the people of Australia would agree with my comment. 1 made it because the Labor Party's argument revolves around what is happening within a minority section of the Australian National University. For a long time many people have tended to criticise university students because df the actions of a very irresponsible few. This is one of the unfortunate aspects that faces so many of our university students today who are good, decent young; Australians. 1 want to say very clearly that 1 support this Bill, which provides for student representation on the Council of the Australian National Univer sity. I for one do not believe in criticising or condemning the majority of university students because of the actions of a few. 
Mention has been made today by members of the Opposition, perhaps more so than by members on the Government side, of the pornographic edition which has just been printed. I shall not comment upon what is in that edition, although I have had a look at it and I am very surprised and disgusted. However, there must be responsibility for that publication. As I understand it, the Students Association appoints the publications committee and so the Association in turn must accept some responsibility for that publication. One wonders what action it will take. It will be interesting to see. We must go further and consider who will be the student representative on the Council. It will be the  President  of the Students Association. That person, as  President,  must accept some responsibility for this pornographic publication. 
The Opposition has brought up all sorts of things in this debate in an effort to digress from the real facts. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Keeffe  both referred to the Vietnam issue and the moralities involved. I can assure them that we on the Government side are ready to take them on in this chamber at any time they wish to bring up that issue again. Time will prove that, politically, right is right and left is left; one of these days the Opposition might wish that ils left had been right. I shall not go into those areas. I think the Opposition has made a point in this debate of trying to duck the main issues. 
This Bill will give to the Students Association an opportunity to accept responsibility and to participate in the administration of the University. I support it. At the same time I support the amendment moved by  Senator McManus,  for the simple reason that it is purely an expression of opinion, lt will show very clearly to these young people that there are responsibilities attached to office. The amendment states that the Senate believes that a student body seeking representation in the control of a university has an obligation and must accept responsibility and have regard for the good name of the university. That body must provide an example. The amendment refers to the rejection of pornography as an example of some of the things that will be expected of the student representative of the Council. I think this amendment adds strength to the Bill. Together with our support for student representation there is an expression of opinion that students in accepting positions will also accept their responsibilities and carry them out. 1 support the amendment and the Bill. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he can give any indication when there will be a second payment on wheat delivered to the 1 968-69 pool. 
I ask the Minister for Supply whether it is a fact that a West German firm is interested in using the Woomera Rocket Range in South Australia for design purposes for a re-usable manned space craft? If this is so. can the Minister say when the firm is likely to begin operating at Woomera? 
Some time ago I sought some information about this matter. In February 1970  Mr Mysliwetz  of the West German firm Messer.schmittBolklowBlohm visited Australia to ascertain what work was being conducted here in hypersonic research and to see what the possibilities were for promoting joint Australian-German research in this field.  Mr Mysliwetz's  current interest was in the lifting bodies and shapes for vehicles returning to ground from low earth orbit missions. One application for this would be to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration re-usable space shuttle programme. Discussions were held with the Australian National University which has a small hypersonic wind tunnel which can test small models up to mach 20. 

 Mr Mysliwetz then visited the Department of Supply and the Aero Department of the Royal Aircraft Establishment at Farnborough which has been involved in this research and certain discussions have taken place. The Department of Supply suggested that if the company were interested it should make representations through the British Government. It was also pointed out that for a programme to commence in Australia late in 1971 it was advisable that the United Kingdom's agreement in principle be obtained by August 1970 and that an indication of United Kingdom support be received in Australia by 1970. No further approaches have been made and the United Kingdom authorities have not officially raised the matter with my Department. Accordingly, there can now be no question of the tests proposed by the company being carried out during 1971. If I receive, any further information I shall make it available to the Senate. 
With the introduction of the system of estimates committees during the last Budget session all honourable senators were very keen to see how they would operate and how successful they would be. I think I can speak for all honourable senators, with the exception of 3, in saying that we were very pleased with the way in which the estimates committees operated. We had an opportunity to work effectively as committees and to research in depth with not just the appropriate Minister but the officers of the appropriate departments. 
A lot more information was obtained in this way than would have been obtained by the committee of the whole in the Senate. 1 think the reports which were finally prepared by the estimates committees indicate very clearly that the system of Estimates committees was very effective and worth while. The effectiveness of these committees went beyond the actual verbal results. The committees functioned effectively because they operated purely as Senate committees and not as political areas of debate. 
I had the pleasure of serving on Estimates Committee A. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  was  Deputy Chairman  of Estimates Committee A and on occasions he chaired its meetings. The members of this committee did nol regard their duties as being purely political: they approached them as members of the Senate who were working as effectively as they could within the whole committee system of the Senate. I was very surprised tonight to hear the remarks of both  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Cavanagh  on the establishment of estimates committees. I am nol going to spend too much time on this aspect because I want to discuss in the short amount of time I have at my disposal the system of standing committees in the Senate. 
I was very disappointed with the comments made by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe.  Some of their comments were not entirely correct, lt must be agreed that they were disappointed at being unable to get into a meeting of an estimates committee on the first day of its sitting, but if they are fair they will admit that the  Chairman  of this committee apologised to them about a complete misunderstanding which occurred. Both honourable senators knew that they were welcome to attend and they had an opportunity to attend any meeting of an Estimates committee they wished to attend: but to my knowledge on no occasion did either honourable senator do so. As a member of Estimates Committee A, I not only attended every one of its meetings but also was what might be termed a visitor and had the opportunity of asking questions when 1 felt so disposed at meetings of other estimates committees. I refute the statements which have been made tonight by  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Cavanagh. 
All honourable senators had an opportunity to participate in any meeting of an Estimates committee. 1 admit that problems were experienced. One of the problems was the lack of suitable accommodation. 1 appreciate that the Hansard staff were put under quite a deal of stress because of the extra load they had to carry during this period. I. must thank the  President  of the Senate, who attended many of the meetings of the estimates committees, as well as the Hansard staff for the co-operation which was extended to the estimates .committees. I believe that this year we should try the system of having only 2 estimates committees sitting simultaneously. This will give honourable senators far more opportunity to move around between estimates committees and participate in their operations. I do support this suggestion . which has been put forward by the  President.  I hope that when the estimates committees are again in operation in the next Budget session or during consideration of the supplementary appropriations those honourable senators who claim to have been refused admittance lo a meeting of an estimates committee will seek clarification on whether they are entitled to attend these meetings and will come along and see for themselves what happens at them. 1 turn now to the new system of standing committees which have been established. Two are in operation at present and a proposal has been put forward for the setting up of at least another two. The leader of the Opposition has proposed that another 5 standing committees be set up, which would mean that there would be 7 standing committees in operation. I am a great supporter of the .committee system. This is perhaps one of the reasons why I am a supporter at this stage of setting up only another 2 standing committees. I believe that if these committees arc to function effectively it will be necessary to back them up, which would mean that there would have to be a good complement of research workers to assist these standing committees. I understand that the standing committees are to operate on a short term basis. I understand that, although they are to be set up on a continuing basis, they will be expected to come up very quickly with a report to the Senate. The standing committees will not be able to do this if they have to do a lot of research work themselves. This is one of the reasons why I feel that we should adopt the concept of gradualism. I hope that all of these committees will be set up eventually, but 1 think that we would be rushing things too much at this stage if we set up all of them now. Therefore, I will support the setting up of only 2 of them in the immediate future. 
Three committee systems are in operation at present in the Senate. Firstly, there are select  or  ad hoc committees; secondly, there are estimates committees; and thirdly there are standing or continuing committees. One of the problems that are being experienced at present is the workload which is being placed upon honourable senators. All honourable senators are willing to work on these committees, but it is physically and politically impossible for honourable senators to sit continuously on committees. An honourable senators responsibility does not begin and end with the sittings of the Senate in Canberra. During weeks when the Senate is in recess an honourable senator is expected to be in Canberra or somewhere else doing committee work. He has also a responsibility to the people of his own State. An honourable senator must share his responsibility between his duties in Canberra and his functions in his State. This is another reason why 1 believe that a close look must be had at the standing committee system. We must make sure that honourable senators are able to apply themselves to the whole political area and not just to the concept of their responsibilities in Canberra itself. I know that a large number of the honourable senators in this chamber have exactly the same ideas as myself on this matter. 
I also want to point out that committees of the Senate should not be expected to sit every Friday or during every week when the Senate is in recess. I hope that as time goes on some consideration will be given to giving up perhaps the Thursday afternoon of a sitting week or some other time during a sitting week to enable standing commitees to meet. If they are to be continuing commitees they will become part of the Senate system. I am not saying that a part of every sitting week should be given over to these committees, but it could be once every fortnight or something like that. This would make a great difference. If these commitees are to continue operating as they have operated so far it could mean that some honourable senators would not be able to go home to their own State but would have to sit on a standing commitee during the whole of a recess week and then return to the Senate on the following Monday. If this were to happen it would mean that these honourable senators would not be carrying out their parliamentary duties in the manner in which the people in their own States would expect them to carry them out. I hope that serious consideration will be given to devoting part of the Senate sessional time to the work of standing committees when they are all appointed. 1 am not saying that it should be done now; I believe this is something we should look at later on. I have endeavoured to be brief because I know we want to finish this debate tonight. I support the idea of setting up two more standing commitees at this stage but I hope that only 2 estimates commitees will sit simultaneously during the next Budget session. 
 Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say what length of time elapses after the completion of the 6-month period of the price averaging plan before the final payment on wool sold in that period is made to the woolgrower? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. As the price for Australian indigenous crude oil was set in relation to the 196S import parity price of SI. 89 per barrel for a 5 year period and as today's import price is $2.31 per barrel, an increase of 42 cents per barrel, and in view of the anticipated increase in import parity prices to $2.65 per barrel by 1975, an increase of some 76 cents per barrel, is it not a fact that Government policy in relation to the setting of the price for indigenous crude oil has saved the Australian motorist and other users of petroleum products many millions of dollars? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the need for financial and other assistance of many primary producers and the Government's stated intention to assist in rural reconstruction, and also having in mind discussions held with respective State Ministers, can the Minister say how long it will be before the Commonwealth Government makes known to the Parliament and primary industries details of its plans? It has been stated that the sum of $100m has been allocated for rural reconstruction. Can the Minister say whether that figure will be increased if it is found that more money is needed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of the problem and inconvenience of having 4 rural telephone directories for South Australia at the present time, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to incorporating all of these in one country volume, which would assist greatly both country and city subscribers in telephoning people in the various country areas? 
 Whilst sympathising to some extent with some of the points that  Senator Byrne  has made, 1 think one thing should not be overlooked. This Bill deals with the collection of a levy from the growers to help their industry. Honourable senators opposite are querying the term of 5 years for the commencement of a prosecution for an offence. A comparison was made between the position here and the position in relation to the Post and Telegraph Bill. The 2 positions are entirely different. Under the Post and Telegraph Bill somebody is served with a warrant because he had been avoiding the payment of his licence fees. Such people were given a period of 5 years for their own protection because they might have been away, particularly overseas. Under this Bill it could be that, because of a shortage of inspectors, regular inspections might not have been able to be carried out. As the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  said earlier, we should not load the industry with the cost of having too many inspectors. If we do, there will be very little benefit left for the industry itself. A grower may have been avoiding the payment of his levy for 3, 4, 5, 6. 7 or even 8 years. It may be that in the seventh or eighth year, to take an extreme case, the Department of Primary Industry finds this fellow who has not been paying his levy. 
Well, we shall keep to the 5 years. He may not have met his commitment for the previous 5 years. If the period is limited to 1 year, the inspectors cannot look even at the previous year. This fellow has had a ride on the industry's back for 5 years. He has had all the benefits. On this point alone it is necessary to have a substantial period of time. Nearly all growers are willing to accept their responsibilities. One or two, for reasons best known to themselves, may not have accepted their complete responsibility. I think, in fairness to the industry, all should pay the levy. They are helping themselves. Therefore, all in the industry should be protected. If somebody who has avoided paying his levy for a number of years is detected, inspectors should have the right to search his books, to say that he has dodged paying a large amount of levy and that he should pay his levy. 1 support the Bill. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform me whether the South Australian Government has introduced legislation to amend certain aspects of the old farm debt re-adjustment scheme to bring it up to date and enable the State Government  to forward the same recommendations to the Federal Government? 
 There is one point that I would like to make to  Senator Murphy  on this matter. As 1 said the other night, we have an entirely different set of circumstances here. Firstly, the man who has met his responsibilities to his fellow growers and the industry has no worry whatsoever. The area of concern is to catch those who have tried to dodge their responsibilities. If we do as  Senator Murphy  has suggested and reduce the period to 12 months, we will incur a great increase in the cost of the policing and administration of this levy: a great deal of the levy that will be collected will be used in trying to keep a very few growers honest and trying to make them accept their responsibilities to their industry. In that case we would have a levy that was virtually being wasted because of the restriction of time. If we make the period 3 years or 5 years, we will be able to have a lesser number of inspectors who will be able to catch up with those growers who have not met their responsibilities. This is the point on which there is disagreement. 
I wish to emphasise again that the main aspect of this Bill is that this is a grower levy collected from the growers to help the growers themselves. The grower who tries to dodge his reponsibilities is the one whom we are trying to catch in this 5-year or 3-year period, f can assure  Senator Murphy  that if he were to ask a great number of the growers throughout the industry what they would like he would be informed, as I have been informed, that they are quite happy with 5 years or 3 years; but they are concerned that if the period is too short the policing may cost nearly as much as the amount collected or much of the levy will be wasted on administration. I must say that I definitely would not be happy to see the period set at 12 months. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has seen reports that leading South African unionists including the  President  of the South African Council of Mining Unions, the Secretary of the South African Confederation of Labour and the Secretary of South Africa's trade union council have severely criticised those Australian trade unionists who are threatening to disrupt and boycott the proposed South African cricket tour, stating that trade unions should not meddle in things like this at all? I also ask the Minister whether he has seen reports of an alliance between the Australian Labor Party and trade unions to prevent the proposed tour? If this is so, does it not show clearly that the policy of the Australian Labor Party and some. Australian trade unions is to force politics into those Australian ways of life which we, as Australians^ have always proudly boasted are completely divorced from politics? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport say how much the present stewards strike has cost the Australian National Line? What effect will this costly strike have on Australian freight rates, with particular reference to those to Tasmania? What effects will it have on Australian freight rates overseas? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As 2 ships to service the Tasmanian run have been released by striking stewards will the Minister, in the event of the strike continuing, use his endeavours to have the shipping service to Kangaroo Island in South Australia resumed and so alleviate the disruption and hardship both to people and industry, particularly primary industry on that island? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether the Adelaide metropolitan abattoir, the major killing works in South Australia, is still without an export licence, the loss of which already has cost South Australian producers very dearly? If this is so, can the Minister say for what reasons the licence was withheld and who is responsible? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister tor Shipping and Transport aware that the 300-mile unsealed section of Highway No. 1 between Ceduna and South Australia and the Western Australian border has been impassable for the last 2 days due to rain and is now only passable with extreme caution? As this is a most important national highway with a high volume of vehicular movement, most of which comes from States other than South Australia, will the Minister give consideration to the Commonwealth Government assisting in the sealing of this 300-mile section, the only unsealed part of Highway No. 1 which extends from Cairns to some 700 miles north of Perth? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that many farmers on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, and no doubt in other areas, are in financial difficulties and at present are unable to obtain credit for the purchase of their superphosphate requirements for this season? As seeding operations for this year's crop are about to commence and as it is impossible to grow a wheat crop without using superphosphate, can the Minister say how long it will be before the rural reconstruction Bill will be introduced and what assistance can be given to these people in the meantime? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration say what differences there are between the Government's present policy on immigration and that of  Mr Daly,  the shadow Minister of the Australian Labor Party, taking into account the differing views expressed by  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Australian Labor Party? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Taking into account the fact that the cost of building the Dartmouth Dam will be much higher now than it was when the project was originally proposed, due to the attitude and delay caused by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, I ask: Will the Minister inform the Senate of the current situation and when construction of the Dartmouth Dam is likely to commence? 
I had no intention of rising to speak tonight, but, having sat and listened to what  Senator Turnbull  has just said, I am impelled to say a few words. All I can say is that, if  Senator Turnbull  had sat on the estimates committee of which I am a member -or another one in whose proceedings 1 participated, from discussion with public servants he would have seen very clearly that the austerity campaign has been activated by the Government. That is a statement of fact. The impression gained from all the public servants was that great cuts have been made wherever possible. While retaining efficiency so as not to have false economies, costs have been reduced in all possible areas and efforts have been made to limit expansion wherever possible so that there will be the most effective use of all the money that is appropriated to the various departments. -I refute the statement that  Senator Turnbull  has made tonight. I say that it is .not the statement of a responsible senator but rather one of a person who is trying to play politics. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation say whether a decision has yet been reached regarding extensions to the runways at Canberra Airport or the development of an alternative site? 
I ask the Minister representing . the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has seen a report that Australia may not be able to fill its meat export quota to the United States of America this year and that if this is the case it could have an adverse' effect upon our future quotas and sales?  Taking into consideration the replacement of stock following droughts in some areas, is it also a fact that  the  limited number of abattoirs with export licences is also affecting our ability to supply this very important market? lt this is so, will the Minister do all in his power to bring more export killing works, including the Adelaide Metropolitan Abattoirs, which is the major killing works in South Australia, up to standard so that this important market can be supplied? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Australian price for mutton, including export mutton, varies between 5c and 7c per lb live weight? Is he also aware that Australian mutton is selling in the United States of America for 42c per lb c.i.f.? Can the Minister give the reason for the great discrepancy between prices paid to Australian producers and prices being obtained in the United States for similar meat? 
1 have listened to this debate on clause 6 for about  2i  hours. The whole of the discussion is centred around the words reasonable apprehension'. I wonder how much more convincing the Opposition will take. Tonight we heard  Senator Rae  say that these words are used in laws in each State, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. Much has been said about demonstrations. We have heard about people going to offices and frightening individuals. I was in a position to see a demonstration in my home city of Adelaide last year. It was a very dangerous demonstration. 
Yes, because I did not want to be counted as one of the many. 1 did not want to be a party to it. I thank  Senator Poyser  for his interjection. This is one of the points that I want to make. Parliamentary members of the Australian Labor Party, both Federal and State, to their credit, refused to participate in the march. Originally they had every intention of participating in that march. They withdrew, for the simple reason that they had a reasonable apprehension that there could be violence. That day emotion ran very high. Lots of very sensible people went along to demonstrate in a moderate way. With the emotions that were created, we saw anarchy in the streets - something I hope we will never see again in Adelaide or in any other city because this country has been a country free of violence. We want to ensure that future demonstrations - and nobody objects to demonstrations - are held in an orderly fashion and without violence. I emphasise that T give credit to those members of the Australian Labor Party who would not participate because they had a reasonable apprehension that there would be violence and they would not associate themselves with it. The Labor Party was prepared to accept that principle on that occasion. I do not know how much longer it will take honourable senators opposite to realise that these words are in laws of the States and in laws of so many other countries. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a report that the recent ship stewards' strike has cost shipowners some $20m? Would not this big cost have an adverse effect on freight rates, encouraging further increases? Also, would not the full cost of this strike be far greater than the $20m and would it not include added cost and considerable inconvenience in Tasmania and Kangaroo Island in South Australia, which have no alternative means of transport? As this type of costly and unnecessary strike has been encouraged by the militant attitudes of some union leaders, will the Government do all in its power to discourage and check this type of industrial action which is so costly? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there any truth in the story that  Dr Patterson,  the Labor shadow Minister for Primary Industry, may not go to China because the Australian Labor Party is now very concerned over the great opposition by the Australian Wheat Industry and the Australian Wheat Board to bringing politics into wheat sales? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Has the Minister seen reports to the effect that a study is being undertaken by 2 academics of the University of New South Wales into the alleged political bias of the current affairs programme 'This Day Tonight'? Does the Minister have any information on this study? If so, can he give the Senate any details of the findings of the research. 
1 am very pleased that all parties in the Senate support this new International Wheat Agreement. There have been international wheat agreements of some type or other since 1949. Throughout that period we have that stability within this very important industry. I was interested in the general comments of  Senator Byrne  with regard to price. It is true that under the last International Grains Agreement the price structure broke down because of quite a few factors and we finished with a world surplus of wheat. The result was that consuming countries were producing a lot of their own supplies and some of the consuming countries became exporters. We finished up with great problems of world surpluses and a certain amount of very keen competition - I will not say undercutting - and the price structure did break down. 
The honourable senator said that; I did not. Nevertheless there were problems and it is unfortunate that the price structure collapsed. But even so, stability remained . within the industry. Honourable senators will recall that last year the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, accompanied a delegation overseas to have discussions with some of the partners in the International Grains Arrangement. As a result we saw stability coming back into the industry and the undercutting being prevented. This new agreement is to some extent based on that type of arrangement except that today there are far more countries involved than there were previously. Even though there is no price arrangement within it we do have a situation where countries will co-operate with each other, whether they be buyers or sellers, thereby avoiding wherever possible chaos within the industry- because there will be consultations and co-operation to help maintain stability, if at all possible. 
To  maintain the stability of the product and: to prevent a surplus, and therefore  pike  is affected indirectly. 1 point  oat  that  Senator Byrne  asked a question  of lae.  Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  concerning the price arrangement  lor  the future. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
It is necessary  ls  stress that despite lack ot agreement in Geneva ob price objectives, all the major exporting  countries  are agreed on the need to obtain  stable and  remunerative prices for their sales of wheat.  In  feet, the agreement specifically provides  that  when it is judged that prices and related rights  and  obligations are capable of successful negotiation,  the  International Wheat Council shall arrange  a  further conference with the objejctive of bringing them into effect within the life of the agreement. 
That is the situation and if it is at all possible it will be done. 
 Yes. Nevertheless the world wheat situation today is one that is still not extremely bright but I must say that it is far better than it was. As at March of this year Canada had stocks amounting to 931 million bushels. Last year at the same time Canada had 1,197 million bushels. In the United States of America as at March there were stocks of 957 million bushels. Last year that country had stocks of 1,098 million bushels. On the Australian scene the figures given relate to the period from 1st December to 30th November because that is at the end of the year and just before the new harvest deliveries come in. Last year as at 1st December we had a carry-over of some 265 million bushels and it is estimated that by 1st December this year we will have a carry over of some 180 million bushels. 
It is encouraging that there has been some decline in world surplus stocks of wheat. The situation looks brighter than it did last year but nevertheless it is still necessary for all major producing countries to have quota systems.. This is something which emanates from agreements such as we have in existence because there is respect for the agreement between the producing countries. Both America and Canada last year increased their quotas but Australia is still maintaining its quota levels to limit production. It is .pleasing to see that within both the producing countries and the consuming countries there is agreement whereby there is co-operation throughout. I hope that we will maintain stability within the - wheat industry even though there is a surplus of stocks today. 
Has the Minister for Air seen a report that the United States Navy is interested in and may purchase the vertical and short takeoff and landing aircraft, the Harrier jet, which it is claimed can do all that helicopters can do and more? Can the Minister say whether Australia may buy any of these aircraft as an alternative to some of the proposed purchases of helicopters? 
 It is very easy to see the problems and it is very easy to see the reasons which have caused them; but it is not very easy to solve the problems. This is something that this Government is endeavouring to do. We know that throughout the years there have been many problems with primary industry. We have seen increased costs and falling prices, as  Senator Poyser  and so many others have said. We can see the reasons for the increases in some of these costs, such as the policy of development we have had in Australia, our industrial development and our policy of full employment. Although all people in this country support the concept of full employment, we must appreciate that this has enabled militancy in certain sections of the trade union movement to take advantage of the situation and which make demands for increased wages. As  Senator Lillico  said last night, this greatly encourages and facilitates increased costs. The tariff structure also has had its effect upon costs. All these things are finally reflected in the cost structure of primary industry. For years increased costs were countered in primary industry by increased productivity; but there are physical and economic limitations on how far one can increase productivity. 
I now turn to price factors. Many of these factors are beyond the control of this country because so much of our primary produce today is related to overseas sales. Of course, we are only another supplier in the international market. Although we have had international grains arrangements and other marketing agreements, we still have seen reduced prices for wheat, falling prices for wool due to competition of synthetics, and so on. Today the price of wool is the lowest it has been for 23 years. It is also the lowest price in relation to costs that the wool grower has ever received. This has had very adverse effects upon the whole of primary industry. The wool grower would definitely be the hardest hit; but from this sector the effect spreads out much further and reaches not only the sheep farmer, be be a big pastoralist or a small high density sheep farmer, but also the mixed wheat-sheep farmer and the course grains grower. The greatest adverse effect has been on the wool industry, with its depressed prices at the present time - the lowest for 23 years. 
Over the years there has been quite an indebtedness within the rural industries. When one looks at the figures one finds that the gross indebtedness in the rural industries has increased from $977m in 1960 to $1,603.9 in 1970 and to $2,086m one year later. We can see the escalation that has taken place in recent years. Much of it, particularly the final escalation, is related to the fall in wool prices. In the wool industry the indebtedness has increased from $980m in 1966-67 to $l,200m this year. This spells out very clearly just what the situation is in the wool industry. Wool farm income has fallen from $760m in 1966-67 to an estimated 
J3M1/71- J-  [75] 
S290m this year. Not only has indebtedness increased, but incomes have been drastically reduced. The situation now is that many property owners are no longer able even to service their debts, let alone to derive an income. One hopes, and the indications are, that there may be an increase in wool prices this year. One cannot forecast what these increases will be, but one can say that there is no doubt that wool prices would have been much lower than they are had it not been for the Government's assistance in setting up the Australian Wool Commission which has certainly added a few cents per lb to the price of wool. 
The difficulty in servicing debts is only one of the problems. We also run into another problem of many properties not being big enough to produce a turnover on which the owners can make a reasonable living. There are figures to show that many property owners today are not even earning the equivalent of the basic wage. The small size of properties has been criticised by  Senator Poyser.  I suggest to him that he should not deal too heavily with this area because if we go back through the political history of this country we will find that in the early post-war years, when the Labor Party was in office, many of these small properties were set up for soldier settlers. This is an unfortunate aspect. Many properties were set up for wool production with 2,000 sheep. It was considered that such a property was a living area and would provide a good living. In not too many years we found that 2,000 sheep would not provide a good living. So let us not start pointing fingers around this chamber to indicate who is right and who is wrong. All of us have to admit that we have had to pay a price for the industrial development that has taken place in this country, the inflationary trends and the demands for higher wages. But' let me also say that Australia has had one of the most stable economies in the world. We can look overseas and see economies that have run away as a result of inflationary trends. This country has been fortunate in having both a stable economy and a stable government. This has helped. Nevertheless there are problems in Australia which are beyond the control of our Government and which have influenced the situation that we have today in primary industry. 
Opposition criticism is levelled at the Government on the basis that it is doing too little too late. The Government has done much to assist primary industry over the years. It has done it in many ways, such as a subsidy on superphosphate, taxation deductions, assistance in wheat stabilisation and, in the case of the wool industry, establishment of the Australian Wool Commission, etc. The Government has done many things but I will not take time to dwell on them. 
The Opposition has said that this Bill should be rejected. I think it is most unfortunate that the Opposition should make what I consider to be a purely political statement on a matter of this magnitude. This Bill should commend itself to the Senate. The Bill does not attack all the problems but it does attack the base of the problem. If the. Government set to work and adopted a cold hard economic approach to the whole situation it would  assess the real financial value of the rural industries to this country and their export earning value. Then it would assess in cold hard dollars and cents how much assistance should be given. But in doing this it would have to go further and assess how many farmers it should force off the land and bring the number down to a minimum. Some economists have said that there are too many farms and too many farmers. 
 That may be an economic assessment. 
But this is not just an economic problem. It is also a social problem. It is a human problem. It concerns families who have lived and worked on their properties, some of them for generations. This is their life. As I said, it is more than just an economic problem; it is also a social problem. This social problem does not stop with the farmers; it spreads to the people in rural areas and in the cities who are affected by the farmers' affluence. So this social problem has a very broad effect. One must look at the problem jointly as a social-economic problem. I say again that this Bill should commend itself to the Senate. 
There are 3 main aspects to this Bill. Various measures are being used to attack this problem - debt reconstruction, farm buildup and rehabilitation schemes. I am very glad to see that flexibility is provided for in Part IV of the Schedule to the Bill. I shall deal later with the particular areas that concern me. Paragraph 24 of Part IV of the Schedule reads: 
The operation of the Scheme in relation to all of the States will be reviewed from time to time as appropriate by the Commonwealth and the States in the light of experience; in its administration. 
I think that is very important. The paragraph continues: 
A review under sub-clause (1) of this clause shall be carried out not later than the time necessary to enable to be brought, into operation by the first day of July; 1972 any adjustments or amendments which it may be agreed should be made to the Scheme in respect of - 
the funds to be provided for the Scheme; 
the allocation of funds between the States; 
the provisions for losses (other than unforeseen losses) and write-offs available to the States under the Scheme; 
the interest rates to be charged to borrowers; and 
the proportion of the financial assistance applied to farm build-up. 
All these things are very important aspects of this scheme. It isspelt out very clearly that they can be reviewed by both the Commonwealth and States and amended, if it is thought necessary, in the light of experience. I repeat that I am pleased to see that the Bill allows for flexibility and change if it is seen to be necessary. 
One of the areas about which I have some concern is that when the scheme was first being discussed it was based not on today's wool prices but on wool prices of perhaps some 12 months ago. Since that time we have seen a big fall in wool prices. Because of this drastic fall in wool prices in the last 12 months there are many farmers today who now are not eligible to participate in the scheme. I hope that this matter will be kept in view and that some consideration will be given to the introduction of an interim or stop-gap measure in the hope that in the next 6 months the price of wool may improve by 5c per lb. If it improved by even 5c per lb, such an increase in the price of wool could make viable some growers who at the present time would not be regarded as an economic proposition and therefore eligible for assistance under the scheme. I emphasise this point very strongly, because I think it is most important. We have seen what we hope will prove to have been a trough in wool prices. It would be wise, I think, for the Government to introduce some interim measure until we have a clearer picture  of  overall wool prices and the wool situation. 
Let me  make it  clear that the aim  of  this scheme should be  to  help the greatest number  of  growers.  We  must make sure that this scheme does not base its assistance on the position of the man right at the bottom  of the  ladder, because there are growers who would have left the industry in any case and growers who did go out of the industry even during times of reasonable affluence. There are some growers who for many reasons will never be effective and efficient managers of their own properties. So we have to be careful that we do not tend  te  assist too much in this area so that not enough assistance can be given to those farmers who are deserving of it and who,  if  they had that assistance, would become a viable proposition again and have some security in the industry. 
Another matter that concerns me is the fact that growers cas apply for assistance under this scheme only after they have been refused credit from the normal lending finance institutions. This could cause a run on the scheme inasmuch as some of these financial institutions may prefer not to carry this type of debt with the rural industry because it may be more lucrative for them to move into other areas. In that situation many growers may be forced to apply for assistance under the rural aid scheme. 1 feel that this is one area that may have to be watched very closely. However, the situation could be just the reverse. There may be many growers who, because they are efficient, are short of liquidity and who, because they have been good farmers and are able to borrow from a bank are paying high rates of interest, will be disqualified from obtaining assistance under this scheme and a lower rate of interest which could really help them and be of great benefit. So it does work both ways. These are problems that exist within the scheme, and experience will help to see how some of these problems can be overcome. 
The Opposition has also criticised the fact that this scheme will be administered by the State governments. I believe that this is one of the most essential parts of the scheme because it keeps the administration very close to the problem. No body could assess accurately from a long way off what should be done in a certain area, because there are variations between properties, and variations between districts. In one district the primary industries may be diversified, but in another district seasonal or soil conditions may prevent diversification. 
There are also variations between States. Another important reason why the administration should be close to the problem is managerial ability. Some farmers may not be good managers. Another farmer may be an excellent manager, needing only a little more land to make his business viable. He is the man who must be helped. If the administration is close enough it will know the effective and efficient managers and can help them. If the administration is handled from Canberra many of these personalities would not be known, so it is essential that the scheme be administered by the States. 
However, it is also essential that the Commonwealth keep a very close eye on the States because we must make sure that the States administer the scheme flexibly so that the greatest possible effective assistance can be given to the greatest number of growers. The sum of money to be spent on the scheme has been criticised. It has been said that the amount allocated to the States is far too small. The sum of $100m was recommended by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I remind honourable senators that paragraph 24 (2.) (a) of the Schedule refers to 'the funds to be provided for the scheme', and states that the scheme will be reviewed in the light of experience. It can be amended and funds increased if necessary. This will depend upon requirements as the scheme gets into operation. 1 do not think the criticism by the Opposition of the amount is justified. 
I wish to refer again to Part IV of the Schedule. It is essential that the scheme is not uniform between the States. There can be variations in administration of the scheme in the States. That is essential for the reasons 1 have given, and also for the reason that the Commonwealth must watch the operations of the States very closely. Paragraph 10 of Part II of the Schedule provides: 
(I.) The provisions of the Schedule to this agreement may be amended from time to time by agreements between the Ministers of the Commonwealth and of the States for the time being responsible for the administration of the scheme.  (2.) Where so agreed between the Commonwealth Minister and the Minister or Ministers of the relevant State or States, the amendments to the provisions of the Schedule to this agreement may be made and take effect as between the Commonwealth and one or more of the States without affecting the operation of this agreement as between the Commonwealth and a State the Minister of which has not so agreed. 
I think those provisions are essential. The thread that shows out right through the whole of the Bill is flexibility, the opportunity to make such changes as become necessary from time to time. The amendment moved by the Opposition concerns me. It starts with the words, 'the Bill be withdrawn'. One cannot but be very critical of such a suggestion. We have heard the pious pleas of the Opposition to help primary industry, today and on other occasions. But in the proposed amendment the Opposition asks that the Bill be withdrawn. At the same time honourable senators opposite refer to the great problems of the primary industries and the need to give assistance. If the proposed amendment is carried, the Opposition would have this Bill withdrawn and probably delayed for months at a time when farmers are in urgent need of help. 
After suggesting that the Bill be withdrawn it goes on to say that there should be a means test. One wants to know what the policies of the Opposition really are. In some policies it is critical of a means test, but in respect of primary industry the great Opposition advocates of assistance for primary industry want to introduce a means test. I am very surprised at the wording of the proposed amendment and I wonder what the Opposition really means. I would like to go a little further. 
I will read it. 
If you want it read-- 
Yes, but how? The Senate is sitting today and members of the other House are not here. 
That is what the honourable senator says. The amendment asks that the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States be amended. The Commonwealth and State governments have spent a long time in reaching agreement. The Opposition wants the Bill withdrawn and a new agreement reached. Until that is done, whichever way it is looked at, there will be great delay. Honourable senators opposite spent a lot of time criticising this legislation and the Government's policy. I have been honest and I have said that we know the problems, but it is very hard to solve them. The Government is attacking the problems through a flexible Bill in an honest endeavour to find solutions. I ask honourable senators opposite whether, instead of just offering criticisms as they have done and saying that the problems are easy to solve, they could tell us how they would solve them.' The amendment they have moved does not offer any solution to the problems. I support the Bill. 
 I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Prowse  because I consider that estate duty is one of the most iniquitous taxes that have ever been introduced in this country. It was introduced originally not to operate as it is operating today. We know from history that it was introduced purely to break up the big estates so that more people could own land. Today we are looking at rural reconstruction. The Government has already stated that on the recommendation of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics SI 00m will be made available initially for a plan to assist rural industries. We are looking at the problems of rural industries, and one of these problems is this very iniquitous tax. Every 25 or 30 years in the family cycle a family just finishes paying its estate duty when the whole vicious circle starts once again and the family is unable to carry on with the efficiency with which it would be able to carry on but for this heavy taxation in the form of death duty. This is one area in which we can assist primary industry. 

 Senator Wilkinson has said today that the Opposition believes that the problem is that a farm may have a paper value which is not its real value. This is not the real cause of the problem. The cause is the estate duties. It is up to us in this Senate chamber, irrespective of party,  10  do what we can to assist the economy. The burden of estate duty goes further than rural industries; it flows right through the whole economy of this country and it is necessary for us to do all we can in this area.  Senator Wilkinson  also drew comparisons between the amounts of Federal and State duties. 
He said that the Federal duty in most cases is less than the State duty, be it succession or estate duty. This might be so, but it is only the lesser of 2 evils. 

 Senator Wood has said that if the Commonwealth pulls out of the field of estate duty the States will increase their death duty. That is the responsibility of the States. Our responsibility is to play the part that we can play in the Federal sphere and hope that the States will accept their responsibilities, look at the overall situation that exists at the present time, adopt procedures similar to those that have been adopted in the Federal sphere and reduce the amount of their death duties. In my own State of South Australia, whilst we have a problem in primary industries at the present time, we have seen not a decrease but an increase in the incidence of State succession duty. As far as I am concerned, this is one field from which the Commonwealth should retire completely because estate duty is one of the most iniquitous and regressive taxes ever introduced. I support  Senator Prowse's  amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It refers to the fire that has taken place on the Marlin drilling rig. Can the Minister say how many people were injured on that rig yesterday and, if any people were injured, how badly they were injured? Has the Minister any further information with regard to the situation on the rig, particularly with regard to the stratum structure of the sea bed and the actual cause of the fire? 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. What navigational aids are there at the Port Lincoln airport in South Australia? Are there more navigational aids at Whyalla than at Port Lincoln? If this is so, why is it so, when Port Lincoln is a main airport for Eyre Peninsula, serving a wide area and many people? 
1 direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Will tha addition of
              jumbo jets to the Qantas fleet mean a reduction in the number of Boeing 707s used by
              Qantas, or will jumbo jets be used mainly for charter and package tours, with a
              subsequent increase in passenger carrying? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. What is the current situation regarding the proposed construction of the Dartmouth Dam? Have costs increased beyond 10 per cent during the period in which construction has been delayed while awaiting the agreement of  Mr Dunstan  of South Australia? If costs have increased beyond 10 per cent, will this necessitate a new agreement and, if so, will this place the construction of the Dartmouth Dam in jeopardy owing to the changing attitudes pf some of the partners in the River Murray Commission? 
I present the report from the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade relating to freight rates of the Australian National Line shipping service to and from Tasmania, together with the evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator YOUNG (South Australia) - by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
As honourable senators are aware, former  Senator T.  L. Bull, O.B.E., who was appointed  Chairman  of the Committee at its first meeting and who served in that capacity throughout the consideration of the reference and the preparation of the report, ceased to be a member of the Senate on 30th June last.  Senator Prowse,  the present  Chairman,  who became a member of the Committee after the report had been completed, has kindly proposed that, as  Deputy Chairman,  1 should present this report on behalf of the Committee. At the outset, I thank  Senator Prowse  for his courtesy. 
This is the initial report of one of the first of the new Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees established by the Senate in the development of its committee system. In its first reference, the Commitee was presented with a subject for inquiry .which is of very great concern to Tasmanians. The terms of reference, though fairly clearly defined, were not capable of effective consideration without regard to a number of highly relevant factors, such as Tasmania's dependence on sea transport, its economic background and the pattern of its trade. It became clear early that too strict and literal an interpretation of the terms of reference would not permit the Committee to take into account these significant factors, which are pf importance in assessing possible alternatives to the present situation. The Committee also* felt bound te take cognisance of the fact that the Australian National Line's services are an integral part of an overall transport operation. The Committee took the view also that, to establish a frame of reference permitting an objective and valid assessment of the appropriateness of the level of freight rates current on ANL services to and from Tasmania when it was given the reference, it needed to devote some attention to the operations of other shipping lines trading to Tasmania. The inter-relationship of all these factors made the exercise much more complex than it had first appeared. 
The Committee devoted a good deal of hard work to a task which it realised from the start was of considerable importance to Tasmania. A number of problems were encountered' in ascertaining the facts and arriving at valid conclusions. At 18 public hearings, some 60 witnesses presented evidence which revealed many facets of the basic problem. The Committee experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining specific evidence stating in quantitative terms' the effects of the freight increases about which there was much criticism from Tasmanian sources. A number of witnesses acknowledged that they had difficulty in obtaining quantitative information, and this at times made the Committee's task difficult. However, in the final analysis, the Committee believes that it achieved an effective understanding of the subject. 
The Committee acknowledges the problems of Tasmanian industry in the economic marketing of its products. However, it believes that the problems of the shipping operators in the Tasmanian trade should be at all times kept in mind. We have in the report expressed our view that the operation of Tasmanian shipping services on a profitable basis is desirable in -the interests of Tasmania and Australia as a whole. But operators in the Tasmanian trade such as the Australian National Line, the Union Steam Ship Co. of New Zealand Ltd and William Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd, on the evidence presented to the Committee, are facing considerable economic difficulties because of rising costs of operation. 
Transport problems are not unique to Tasmania, though in the Committee's view that State has special difficulties. The Committee has recommended that the Bureau of Transport Economics be asked to undertake a quantitative assessment of Tasmania's transport disabilities relative to the other States, in the hope that this will help to clarify the extent of Tasmania's particular problems in marketing its products economically. The Committee pursued its investigation of these matters so far as it believed it had competence. However, as is indicated in the report, in many respects Tasmania's special transport difficulties are related to matters which were not appropriate to investigation by. this Committee, and the Committee has not taken upon itself the responsibility of proposing to the State Government what it should do in relation to matters which are within the State sphere of responsibility. The Committee noted that the Tasmanian Government had engaged a firm, of transport consultants and expressed the hope that the study being undertaken by those consultants would enable the State Government to determine priorities and plans to improve the island's transport situation. 
The evidence presented to the Committee disclosed a considerable volume of cargo transportation overland between northern and southern Tasmania and indications of a continuing increase in this trend. This was caused by insufficient availability of shipping space at the closest port, and also by the need to take advantage of the most suitable shipping schedules. Another reason was that this practice assisted in obtaining the maximum utilisation of containers and other cargo handling units. The overland movement of goods in this way in association with shipping services attaches special importance to the role of the Tasmanian Government Railways, and particularly of its rail ferry service. Believing that the State ought to receive some assistance from the Commonwealth in efforts to rectify transport problems, the Committee has recommended that special consideration be given by the Commonwealth Government to any approach by the State for assistance for upgrading of Tasmania's mainline railways. 
The evidence presented to this Committee demonstrated the great concern of Tasmanians at rising transport costs. However, although the freight increases made in 
August 1970 by the Australian National Line evoked much criticism and protest, much greater total increases in freight forwarding charges received less comment, appartently because they had been made regularly and gradually over a number of years. On the evidence received, the Committee came to the conclusion that sea freight represented about 40 per cent to 45 per cent of the total door-to-door charge and land leg charges some 45 per cent to 50 per cent with wharfage accounting for approximately 10 per cent. The Committee viewed with concern the increases in freight forwarding charges - the largest element in the total transport cost - and has dealt with them in detail in the report. 
As the inquiry progressed, the Committee formed the conclusion that the ANL could be hampered in efforts to compete on even terms with private shipping lines. Several of the recommendations in the report proposed the removal of restrictions on the Line so as to allow it to act as a freight forwarder if it so chooses and to afford it equal opportunity with private operators to provide any additional tonnage required on the Australian coast. The Committee believes that these proposals will strengthen the competitive position of the ANL which carries the bulk of the Tasmanian general cargo trade, without giving it any unfair advantage over privately owned shipping lines. 
In the evidence put to the Committee, the payment of subsidies on shipping services to Tasmania was repeatedly proposed. The Committee carefully considered all the proposals for various forms of subsidy and closely examined the implications of subsidies of various types. In the event, it came to the conclusion that the advantages were outweighed by the disadvantages. Therefore, it has not recommended the payment of any form of subsidy. Tasmanian members of the Committee, however, have attached to the report reservations indicating that they hold different views on this aspect, though they generally support the conclusions and recommendations of the report. 
The Committee has also recommended the consideration of some rationalisation of passenger services to Tasmania, which are provided exclusively by the Australian National Line. The evidence clearly indicated that these are less profitable than cargo services and present special problems. The Committee believes that the feasibility of separating the two types of service should be investigated. The economic cost of operating outdated vessels and the capital cost of new vessels . impose upward pressures on freight rates, and the Committee, has recommended that as a matter of urgency the Government consider the adoption of a scheme to enable shipping operators to finance shipbuilding on easier terms at nominal interest rates in order to facilitate the replacement of vessels at reasonable economic cost. 
It seems proper that I should emphasise at this juncture that the report now before the Senate was prepared by a Committee composed of senators representing all States of the Commonwealth. Though primarily of concern to Tasmania, it is not without importance for all Australians, I believe, and this was one of the considerations borne in mind by the Committee in its preparation. 
I take this opportunity to express on behalf of the Committee appreciation to the officers of Commonwealth and State departments and to the officials of the Australian National Line and the private shipping companies who so willingly and capably assisted the Committee in its task. I wish to thank also the many other persons who presented submissions and gave evidence. Special thanks are extended also to the officers of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Reporting Staff, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library and the Department of the Senate for the many services provided, without which no Committee could function effectively, and particularly to  Mr R.  G. Thomson for his untiring effort and loyal support as Secretary of the Committee. 
Finally, I wish on behalf of myself and other members of the Committee to pay tribute to the work of former  Senator Bull,  who discharged with great capacity the responsibilities of  Chairman  of the Committee concurrently with his other duties as  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate. We who served with him on the Commit^ tee know how earnestly he laboured to further the Committee's work. By his wise and tolerant chairmanship he contributed in very great measure to the effectiveness and friendly spirit of the inquiry. The benefit of his considerable experience on other committees of this Parliament, and in public and industry affairs, was greatly valued by the Committee. He has left his mark in many ways on this report. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Australian Wheat Board has made sales of wheat to Egypt and other Middle East countries amounting to some 2± million tons, which has more than compensated for the reduction in sales of wheat to mainland China this year? Will the current wheat sales this year equal those of the record sales of wheat in 1966-67? If so, will this mean that the anticipated carryover of Australian wheat stocks this year will be the lowest for some years? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many people visited Canberra last 
How many people visited Parliament House during the same period. 
Is there an increasing number of people visiting Canberra and Parliament House; if so, what has been this increase. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether any research has been conducted or is being conducted into the development of powdered orange juice or other citrus juices, which powder would readily mix with water, similar to other instant drinks? If there has been no such research and as there would be a large potential market for such a product, both locally and overseas, will the Minister recommend to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or some other body that such research be conducted for this could prove of immense value to the Australian citrus industry? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen newspaper reports indicating that the Victorian Young Labor Association decided at its conference last Sunday in Melbourne to establish a committee of draft resisters to incite young men to defy the National Service Act? Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a report indicating that the same body published literature for younger members with the intention of counselling them on methods of resistance and aiding young Labor members and anyone else prosecuted for resistance? As a consequence of these reports, will the Attorney-General have discussions with the leaders of the Australian Labor Party with the aim of having Party leaders support the concept of law and order? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science whether any discussions have been held with university authorities in relation to the expulsion or cancellation of the scholarships of students, such as those at Melbourne University, who openly defy the law and assist others to do the same by barricading university buildings and preventing the police from carrying out their duties? Has the Minister seen comments that such radical minorities are using university campuses for the purpose of underground operations in defiance and disruption of law and order instead of study? If no such discussions with the authorities have taken place will the Minister take all necessary steps to arrange them with the aim of enabling universities and students to operate for the purpose for which students attend the universities and for which the taxpayer pays? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Following the sanctuary given to the 4 draft resisters at the University of Melbourne last week and the lock-out of police by radical students and others, can the Minister say whether the telephone service was used by those people or was it disconnected? 
My question, which is directed to you,  Mr President,  is in relation to the closing of the parliamentary dining and refreshment rooms last Thursday, which I believe was due to certain pressures being exerted to compel a member of the staff to join n trade union. I ask: As the institution of the Parliament protects the rights and the freedom of the individual, subject to the rights of others, will you give an assurance,  Sir. that  the rights of individuals in this Parliament, including that of freedom of choice in relation to the joining of a trade union, will he protected? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the statement that  Mr Barnard, Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place, is in favour of secret ballots in trade unions? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Barnard  later qualified that statement by stating that secret ballots could be held only if a union meeting reached such a decision by open vote? Can the Minister say how that statement aligns itself with the policiesof the governments of New South Wales and certain other States which propose to legislate for the introduction of secret ballots in trade unions? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the statement that 

 Mr Barnard, Deputy Leader of the Opposition in another place, is in favour of secret ballots in trade unions. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Barnard  later qualified that statement by stating that secret ballots could be. held only if a union meeting reached such a decision by open vote? Can the Minister say how that statement aligns itself with the policies of the governments of New South Wales and certain other States which propose to legislate for the introduction of secret ballots in trade unions? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the rural reconstruction scheme. Can the Minister say how many forms are required for a farmer to apply for rural assistance in Victoria, and how many similar forms are required in South Australia? Does the Federal Government have any say in the type or number of questions asked a farmer when making an application under the rural reconstruction scheme and are these applications more difficult in some States than in others? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army say whether the members of the Citizen Military Forces who have served in Vietnam were officers and, further, whether they were volunteers? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service say whether it is the policy of Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities, including the Reserve Bank, to  have  compulsory unionism for staff members including those who are employed as cleaners? If there is no policy supporting compulsory unionism, can the Minister say whether pressures are being exerted by trade union leaders to force people to join a trade union? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Minister seen a statement in today's 'Australian' alleged to have been made by  Mr Whitlam  that, apart from Canberra and a kw mining centres, no new towns or cities have been built since Federation? Will the Minister inform  Mr Whitlam  that the city of Elizabeth in South Australia was established by the Playford Government as a new satellite city in the early post-war years? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: What powers does the Commonwealth Government have in relation to compulsory unionism and the protection of the rights of individuals who do not wish to join a union? ls the Attorney-General able to say what would be the position of an individual who has been in the continual employ of a company for 10 years or more, who is not a union member and who now refuses to join a union? Will his position, including his superannuation and other benefits, be in jeopardy? Can his rights, including that of freedom of choice, be protected legally? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: ls it a fact that many export markets are closed to some meat producing countries because of the presence of foot and mouth disease? Is it also a fact that this is a highly contagious disease easily transmitted by cattle? Would not the occurrence of foot and mouth disease considerably damage Australia's export meat markets? As Australia does not have foot and mouth disease, will the Minister ban the importation of cattle into this country in order to avoid the risk of the introduction of this dangerous disease and other exotic diseases? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether any farmers or graziers have walked off their properties because of their inability to meet financial commitments? If this is so, to what extent has this happened? Has the Government given serious thought to the purchasing of these properties with the aim of leasing them, with the right to purchase, to near neighbours, thus assisting the neighbours to have  economic units and also preventing large companies and corporations purchasing cheap real estate? 
I do not know whether I should direct my question to the Minister for Health or to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask this question following the question asked by  Senator Georges  in which he stated that there is a 10 per cent mercury level in canned tuna. 
 Will the responsible Minister make inquiries to see whether this position applies to all tuna caught in Australian waters, or does this level vary? What are these variations in relation to the different fishing areas around the Australian coastline? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would like to respond to that question. I was in the process of sending a note to  Senator Georges  to say that had he watched his blood pressure I was going to give him an answer which suggested that I would have his question examined without delay. Therefore this situation applies also to the question asked by  Senator Young.  I am sure that I can be relied on to provide the honourable senators as quickly as possible with an answer covering both questions. 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the disruption to sailing clubs through the overturning of boats and the risks run by amateur fishermen last week-end in South Australia? ls the Minister also aware that concern has been expressed by some sailing clubs and amateur fishermen at the lateness at which strong wind warnings and changes in weather conditions were issued over radio stations? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that in future there is closer cooperation between the weather bureau and the Department of Civil Aviation to enable the early dissemination of weather forecasts through the news media, particularly the radio stations? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral, and 1 ask it following the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment in relation to telephone directories. Will the Minister request the Postmaster-General to incorporate all country telephone directories into one country directory for the convenience of both rural and city people, at the same time as he puts into effect the recommendations of the Standing Committee? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen reports that a delegation from the Australian Wheat Board recently returned to Australia from China after attending the Canton Trade Fair? Is it a fact that such a delegation was invited by the China National Cereals and Oilseeds and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation? Has the Minister seen a statement by  Dr Callaghan,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board, that discussions were held on a very friendly basis, although the delegation was not able to reconcile points of view on a purely business and commercial basis, mainly in relation to price? Is it not a fact that both the invitation to the Australian Wheat Board and the Chairman's statement clearly show that negotiations and discussions between the Chinese and the Board are held on a purely commercial basis and completely divorced from politics, which is contrary to what the Australian Labor Party would have us believe? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the value of Australia's imports from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in each of the past five years. 
For how long have Australia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics been trading partners, and has Australia ever refused to trade with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
From which countries does Australia import most of its crude oil and what is the cost per barrel of crude oil imported by Australia. 
Does the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics export crude oil beyond the Communist-bloc countries; if so, how does the price of their crude oil compare with the price of crude oil presently imported by Australia, taking into account differences in grade and freight rates. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that 5 farmers on Kangaroo Island in South Australia have been black listed, with a ban placed on their wool, by trade unions because non-union shearers and shed hands were employed during shearing? ls the Minister also aware that these shearers and shed hands were either farmers or farmers' sons trying to earn extra money to assist them in their financial plight? Is the Minister aware that the majority of the 5 property owners involved are returned soldiers who are battling to make a living on Kangaroo Island? As this black ban is a clear case of compulsory unionism by threat and virtual blackmail, will the Minister point out to the trade unions the financial harm that they are doing to these people on Kangaroo Island who are already under great financial stress, in the hope that some semblance of decency and respect for the rights ot the individual might be shown by the trade unions lifting this most undemocratic black ban? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral say whether the statement made yesterday by  Senator Cavanagh  that one of the wanted draft resisters was in the Senate chamber during the adjournment debate on Tuesday night was a statement of fact? 
 1  direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As the rights of the individual are being ignored by trade unions in their demands to enforce compulsory trade unionism on some farmers on Kangaroo Island by imposing a black ban on their wool, does this mean that any farmer who employs non-union labour on his property will be similarly black-listed, thus preventing the delivery of wheat and livestock? Will the Minister seek the support of the leaders of the Australian Labor Party in order to change this dominant attitude of trade unions which could bring economic disaster to farmers as well as to rural dwellers and the economy generally? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. As a black ban has been placed upon 5 farmers on Kangaroo Island by some trade unions because nonunion labour was employed during shearing, will the Attorney-General make inquiries to see whether any legal action can be taken to assist these farmers to defend their rights and freedoms against the militant actions of these trade unions? 
1 present the report of the  Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources together with the minutes of evidence. . 
 Ordered that the report and evidence be printed. 
] seek leave to propose a motion to take note of the report. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. With the recently improved wool prices, can the Minister say how much of the wool bought in by the Australian Wool Commission has been sold and what amount has been sold at a profit? Is the Minister aware that many people who previously were critical of the operations of the Australian Wool Commission now admit that it has been of immense value to the Australian wool industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the States concerned and the Commonwealth have finally agreed to ratify the agreement relating to the construction of the Dartmouth Dam which was delayed for so long because of non-acceptance of the agreement by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia? By how much did the cost of building the Dartmouth Dam increase during this period of delay? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has agreed to this increase in the cost of building this dam which is so necessary to supply South Australia with a much needed increase in water resources? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. Has the Minister received reports of a suspected peaked shoal in South Australian waters near Port Stanvac? As there could be a risk of oil pollution if this suspected marine hazard is present, due to the volume of oil tankers operating in the area to service the nearby oil refinery, will the Minister say when a survey will be carried out to determine the type and location of this hazard and to have it recorded accurately, if it is a hazard to shipping? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport say whether reports of several oil slicks, one only 10 miles off the Victorian coast, are correct? If the reports are correct and if the slicks are outside the territorial sea, what steps are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to disperse the slicks to prevent their spreading? Will different methods of control, including the use of various dispersants, be undertaken and scientifically studied in an endeavour to obtain a better understanding of the control of oil pollution? Will investigations be made to ascertain the cause of the pollution? Will action be taken for compensation and will a prosecution be launched if negligence can be shown? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry seen recent statements attributed to  Mr Whitlam  that the Tariff Board would be used as a means of price restraint and/ or control? Would such a policy imply in effect that the price aspect and not that of employment or economic needs would be the main yardstick in determinations by the Tariff Board? If this is so, would not this policy of maximum price via the Tariff Board and the policy of minimum wage by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission be contrary to Australian Labor party policy? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a pamphlet headed The 
Concorde Crisis' in which it is claimed that the sonic boom effects on human and animal life on land are alarming and that supersonic nights over the oceans may seriously affect marine life? The pamphlet contains many other condemnatory statements about the Concorde. Can the Minister say whether any research has been carried out along the flight path of the Concorde when in supersonic flight and, if so, what were the findings? Also can the Minister say who are the authors and distributors of the pamphlet? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. It follows the question asked last week by  Senator Rae  about  Mr Whitlam's  statement that  Senator Greenwood  should write to him regarding the whereabouts of  Mr Johnston,  the draft-dodging Australian Labor Party can didate for the Victorian seat of Hotham. Has the Attorney-General written to  Mr Whitlam  about this matter and, if so, has he received a reply? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Last week I asked him a question in relation to the oil spill in the off-shore areas of Victoria. I now ask: 
Was any research undertaken with regard to this oil spill and, if so, what were the findings? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. With the increased use of liquefied petroleum gas as a motor vehicle fuel, is the Government likely to introduce a fuel tax on liquefied petroleum gas which is used as a motor vehicle fuel similar to the tax now applying on petrol? If this is so, will the Government endeavour to keep the liquefied petroleum gas in a price range favourable with that of the price of petrol, to give every encouragement to its use as a motor fuel and as a counter to air pollution, particularly in the cities? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. With the recently improved wool prices and the effective operations of the Australian Wool Commission during the very depressed period of wool prices last year, which operations were of so much benefit to wool growers and the economy generally, can the Minister say what stocks of wool are presently held by the Australian Wool Commission and what amount has been sold? Have any of the previous critics and prophets of doom - including members of the Australian Labor Party - about the operations of the Australian Wool Commission since made admissions to the Minister that their criticisms were ill-founded? 
Rarely in the last few weeks have I spoken but tonight I must express my concern about this matter of the personal attack by  Senator James  McClelland. This debate has gone on for quite some time. It has been a debate of conscience. We have seen honourable senators from this side of the chamber speaking in favour and speaking against the Bill. We have not heard many speakers from the Opposition. 1 do not intend to do other than pass comment. I am not passing any criticism. I say this qui e fairly to  Senator Murphy  because I wish to take my point further. The only reason 1 mention this is because of the fact that criticism of Government members in relation to this Bill has been expressed in the Press and in this chamber. I feel that if we are all honest we must admit that there has been a variance of opinion from this side of the chamber on the subject of capital punishment. More importantly one expected tonight to hear this matter again debated in depth and with sincerity and on a low, constructive key. I give full marks to  Senator Murphy  for the way in which he closed the second reading debate on this very important matter tonight. Personality did not come into it.  Senator Murphy  made a firm plea and spoke with conviction. 
I regret very much that tonight we have seen  Senator James  McClelland bring personalities into the debate. I sat here and saw him being vicious and personally abusive to the Attorney-General. I admire firm, frank, hard debate, but I do not accept personalities being brought into debate in this place. Fortunately very few senators do. It would appear on the 'surface that  Senator James  McClelland has conducted a personal vendetta against the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  tonight. I only hope that we can come back to the honest, sincere, low level, constructive way in which the Leader of the Labor Party opened up this discussion tonight so that all of us can settle down to debate from a conscience point of view this very important humanitarian question in relation to which we all have differing views. Politics should be completely divorced from this issue which we are debating tonight, lt is up to each and every one of us to vote and speak as we see the issue. 1. hope that now we can go back to that level and act as honourable senators dealing wilh a very important matter and keep personalities, vendettas and viciousness completely out of the debate. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Having regard to the problems experienced by farmers in South Australia in hearing news broadcasts during the recent operation of daylight saving, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to leaving the actual time of news broadcasts and farmers' sessions broadcast on regional stations in South Australia unchanged if daylight saving is introduced in South Australia next summer, to fit in with the working patterns of the farming community and so enable farmers to hear their broadcasts which otherwise are too early? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact that the Australian News and Information Bureau, which does such an excellent job in promoting Australia overseas through its publicity and public relations, has representatives in every State except South Australia? Can the Minister say whether consideration is being given to the appointment of representatives of the News and Information Bureau in South Australia? If this is so, will he use every endeavour to expedite this matter and give his support to the appointment of such officers in South Australia? 
I am very pleased to hear that all honourable senators support this Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill. All honourable senators have dealt with the need for this loan of up to $150m which will assist the Australian Wheat Board to meet the commitments on its borrowings from the Reserve Bank of Australia. This is not the first time that this has happened. It also happened during the 1968-1969 and 1969- 1970 seasons because receipts for the sale of wheat were slow in those years and the Wheat Board was not able to meet the commitments on its borrowings. It is very interesting to look at the overall situation in the Australian wheat industry, particularly with regard to the exports of wheat over the last few years. In the year 1968 Australia exported some 205.5 million bushels of wheat; in 1969 some 243 million bushels, and in 1970 some 359 million bushels. In the year 1971 exports amounted to 394 million bushels. That was one of the greatest years on record for sales. The reason 1 mention those figures is because wheat sales to China have been mentioned today. For a long time China did play an important part in the disposal of the Australian wheat crop. In fact, it took up to one third of our wheat exports. It was a very important market, but many people said that we were inclined to put too many of our eggs in the one basket. There has been a lot of comment about why we lost those China sales. Some relate it to politics; many relate it to other reasons. I think that we have to be logical in our approach to the reason why China has reduced her purchases. We al! know that there has been what has been termed a green revolution. There has been an explosion in the production of rice and in the new types of wheat which are being grown in various countries. Today China is aiming for self-sufficiency but she is not yet self-sufficient. Granted, she is still buying wheat from other countries, but nevertheless her reliance upon outside production today is greatly reduced when compared with what it was just a few years ago. 
The important factor which I want to mention is that whereas before we were exporting one-third of our exports to China, this year without any China sales we have had the greatest sales of wheat on record, sales which have amounted to some 394 million bushels. That is a fantastic amount. I believe that the Australian Wheat Board is to be commended for going out and finding new markets. It is interesting to look at a list of the major purchasers of Australian wheat. In 1970-71 Egypt was the biggest buyer. She took 61 million bushels. The United Kingdom came second, with 46 million bushels. Japan took 38 million bushels, Iran 23 million bushels, Iraq 17 million bushels, South Korea 11 million bushels, Malaysia 11 million bushels, Chile 74 million bushels and Peru  6i  million bushels. That shows that the Wheat Board has spread its markets significantly. This is most encouraging to the industry. It is something on which we must commend the Board. 
At the same time we can look at the situation that existed a few years ago when we had a great problem. We had an explosion of wheat production in Australia, as did most of the other major wheat producing countries. At the end of December 1969 we had a carryover of 266 million bushels. I refer to this because  Senator Wilkinson  made a very valid reference to it. At 30th November 1970 we had a carryover of 265 million bushels. At 30th November 1971 the carryover was 125 million bushels. It is estimated that at 30th November this year we could have a carryover of the order of only 80 million bushels. That is an extremely good situation in which to be. I believe that this is significant when we relate it to the situation when the panic buttons were being pressed by some people with regard to the loss of the China sales. Despite the loss of that big market, we have managed to find other markets and have been able to reduce our carryover from 266 million bushels in 1969 to an estimate as low as 80 million bushels in 1972. 
At the same time, since quotas were introduced the quota has increased from 357 million bushels in 1969-70, 319 million bushels in 1970-71 to 407 million bushels in 1972-73 on the basis of the plantings in the current year for the coming harvest. All of this gives a great deal of encouragement to the Australian industry. It also shows very significantly the effective marketing operations of the Australian Wheat Board. So, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to support this Bill, the purpose of which is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its commitment under the guarantee to the Board to enable it. in turn, to meet its commitment to the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports of the meeting of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive held in Adeliade last week stating that discussion on the endorsement of  Mr Barry  Johnston, an ALP Federal candidate, was deferred to avoid rocking the boat? Is the Attorney-General able to say whether he has received any information from any member of the ALP which would assist the police in locating  Mr Johnston?  If not, does he propose to initiate any action to see whether such assistance can be obtained? 
 I shall not take much of the time of the Senate. I wish to reply to the comments and criticisms that have been made by  Senator McLaren  merely by saying that I support the remarks that  Senator Jessop  has made. In replying personally to what  Senator McLaren  has said about me,I merely say that if he cares to make assumptions or to draw conclusions and to relate them to ulterior motives, that is his view, and only his as far as I am concerned. In regard to any question I ask, I am certain that the Chair, in its discretion, will either allow it or rule it out of order. I will continue to operate as effectively and as fairly as I can as a senator on this side of the chamber, for as long as I can. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science a question. As many paraplegics and quadraplegics are keen to undertake or to continue education in the tertiary field but are unable to do so or, if they do, are placed in great financial difficulty because of their inability to earn extra income, will the Minister give consideration to making available to these people financial grants to assist them with their studies and to ease some of the financial burdens and disadvantages under which they are placed, at the same time giving many of them the opportunity to continue upon a career, or to take up a course, which otherwise may be lost to them? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to the proposed visit of the Concorde to Australia in mid June of this year and the Minister's Press statement that the Concorde could fly at supersonic speeds only over remote areas of Australia. Can the Minister say whether tests will be conducted by his Department in relation to the effects of the sonic boom and other aspects while the Concorde is flying at supersonic speeds in Australia? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports that the State Council of the Victorian Australian Labor Party has expressed its support for the current North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam? Following such a repugnant resolution of support by the powerful Victorian Australian Labor Party State Council for this blatant invasion by communist forces- 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that the agreement between the 
Waterside Workers Federation and the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour on wages and conditions includes a 35-hour week and an immediate increase of $8 a week in basic pay? Can the Minister say whether steps can be taken to prevent such employers doing a sell-out to excessive union demands which eventually will mean a greatly increased surcharge on freights and costs? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are reports correct that average wool prices for the 9-month period ended March this year were 6 per cent higher than for the same period last year, and also that prices for March were 32 per cent higher than for March 1971? Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Commission has been profitably disposing of its stocks which were built up as a consequence of its buying operations during the depressed wool market last year. If this is correct, does it not completely confound the criticisms by some members of the Australian Labor Party that the operations of the Australian Wool Commission were not being conducted in the best interest of the Australian wool industry? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports of (he Melbourne moratorium demonstration led by  Dr Cairns  last week in support of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong invasion of South Vietnam? Can the Minister say whether reports that stones, bottles, rocks and so on were hurled at police, windows were smashed and cars were battered by demonstrators are correct? Can the Minister say also whether  Mr Whitlam  and the Australian Labor Party are supporting  Dr Cairns  and the moratorium on this occasion as they have done previously? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior the following question, without notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian News and Information Bureau, which does such an excellent job in promoting Australia overseas through its publicity and public relations, has representatives in every State except South Australia? Can the Minister say whether consideration is being given to the appointment of representatives of the News and Information Bureau in South Australia? If this is so, will he use every endeapour to expedite this matter and give his support to the appointment of such officers in South Australia? 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian News and Information Bureau has representation in all States of the Commonwealth except South Australia and Tasmania. 
With the support of the Minister, the establishment of offices of the Bureau in these States was taken up with the Public Service Board by the Department of the Interior. 
The Board recently approved new offices for both states. Staff will be appointed soon. 
I direct a question to  the  Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the 
Minister heard statements that a new international airport is to be established near Murray Bridge in South Australia? Can the Minister say whether these statements are correct, and if so, when the airport is likely to be established? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Can the Minister say whether he had the power to prevent the entry into Australia of the publication known as 'The Little Red School book'? If not, will he take steps to amend the appropriate legislation to prevent obscene literature from coming into Australia? Has he any power over the importation of such literature into South Australia which has much more relaxed laws than other States in relation to the publication and distribution of certain types of literature? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he can recall  Dr J.  F. Cairns stating in the House of Representatives last year: 
I recognise the law as it is and if I think it is wrong and if the issue is strong enough I will break the law. 
Has the Attorney-General also seen reports in today's Press that  Dr Cairns  is now considering quitting the moratorium movement in Melbourne because of the violence last Friday? I ask the Attorney-General whether there is any statement, or whether he is able to make one, on the obligations of honourable members and honourable senators with respect to participation in violent demonstrations? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: With the concern being expressed by some people over the proposed supersonic flight of the Concorde aircraft over some parts of Australia, can he say whether any figures are available of supersonic flights over Europe and the United States of America and what were the effects of those flights? 
 I feel that I must correct one thing in particular. Tonight  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Cant  stated that the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, should have accepted the fact that when the Committee of the Whole debated the report of the Standing Orders Committee the amendments to standing order 64, including amendment No. 5, should have 'been referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. 1 point out to the Senate that the statement made by the honourable senators is not correct, because the Committee of the Whole did not deal with amendment No. 5. I think that I should read out that amendment for the purpose of the record. Amendment (5) reads: 
Leave out 'Provided that the whole discussion on the subject shall not exceed 3 hours', insert Provided that the whole discussion on the subject shall not exceed 2 hours'. 
-Tht amendment was not discussed by the Committee. The debate was adjourned before we dealt with it. I turn to the notice of motion we are debating tonight and which is in the name of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He has moved: 
That the Senate agrees in principle that standing order 64 relating to urgency, motions should provide that the whole discussion on the subject should not exceed 2 hours. 
What we are discussing is entirely different from some of the arguments that were raised tonight, particularly by  Senator Cavanagh.  He dealt at length with the break up of the 2 hours during which the matter can be debated. That is not the subject under discussion. Tonight we are discussing the length of the debate. I think I should point out that the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee was that a debate on a matter of urgency should be reduced to 2 hours from the previous 3 hours; that the 2 initial speakers should have 20 minutes each, instead cf the previous 30 minutes each, and that further speakers should have 10 minutes each, instead of the previous 15 minutes each. Worked out mathematically, in the 2- hour debate  -  I am doing this to reply to  Senator Cavanagh  - 2 speakers take 20 minutes each. That makes 40 minutes. That leaves 1 hour 20 minutes, which is taken up by a series of speakers who have not more than 10 minutes each. That allows another 12 speakers, so a total of 14 speakers can participate in the 2 hours allotted for that debate. Under the present system, with a 3-hour debate, the 2 initial speakers take half an hour each. That makes a total of 1 hour. That leaves 2 hours to be allotted to a number of speakers who can speak for a maximum of 15 minutes each. That gives a total of 8 other speakers and a grand total of 10 speakers in that debate. So if the proposal for a time limit of 2 hours on an urgency debate were adopted a minimum of 14 speakers could participate in the debate whereas under the existing provision for a 3- hour debate the maximum number of speakers contributing to the debate - unless some voluntarily cut down their speaking time - is 10. That counters the argument of  Senator Cavanagh  that the acceptance of this proposal would restrict the opportunity of honourable senators to participate in an urgency debate in this chamber. I have mentioned that merely because it was brought into the debate by  Senator Cavanagh. 
What I do want to say in particular is that I think it is essential that we give serious consideration to reducing the time for urgency motions to 2 hours. The restructuring of the Senate because of the establishment of the committee system as we have it today has brought time strains. The Senate also decided recently to set aside time for the debating of committee reports. These are another very important aspect of the structure of the Senate today. I agree with  Senator Sim  and the other honourable senators who have said tonight that if we put our minds to it we can quite adequately cover the points we wish to make in an urgency debate in 10 minutes. I support  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's motion. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Since the introduction of supersonic aircraft, which led to general concern about the resultant effects, particularly that of noise, on the environment, what co-operative studies are being conducted on an international level? ls there any international agreement on aircraft noise to establish certain standards? If so, is Australia a party to such agreements and discussions in relation to aircraft noise? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. As school journals can be regarded as assisting and furthering the educational opportunities of students and school children, will the Postmaster-General consider giving free postal facilities to certain journals and publications of school organisations which are distributed by schools, thus saving much needed funds that could be used for other educational facilities? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. With the proposed intrusion of supermarkets into the field of certain pharmaceutical lines previously regarded as specialised chemists' lines, can he say what steps can be taken to protect pharmacies, particularly the small ones, against the unwarranted intrusion of big chain stores which could have a serious effect upon the livelihood of chemists who render such a valuable service to the community? 
Whose fault was that? 
The third factor is the most intriguing of all. Instead of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who represents the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  handling this Bill in the Senate, it is being handled by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  a procedure I have not seen before. I have not previously seen a Bill taken out of the hands of the appropriate Minister in the Senate. 
You could have worked on a few Bills last week and you refused. You were given the chance to work longer hours last week and you declined. So, do not give us that kind of talk. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has seen a reported statement of  Mr King,  the South Australian Attorney-General, that  Mr Martin  - 
. had a conscientious objection to military service and as such I feel considerable sympathy fur his predicament. 
Has  Mr Martin  ever applied to have the question of conscientious objection determined by the courts? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the South Australian Government recently announced that it would pay the costs owing by a  Mr J.  E. Dunford to a Kangaroo Island farmer who had successfully taken civil action against him to lift a black ban imposed on the shipment of the farmer's wool? Is the Attorney-General aware that the South Australian Government justified this action on the ground that the Commonwealth Government had paid legal costs in similar cases? Is there any precedent in Commonwealth Government actions? 
I ask the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: With the proposed introduction of a 35-hour week for members of the Australian Waterside Federation, will the Minister say what will be the increase in costs on the Australian waterfront and what effect these increased costs will have on shipping freights generally? 
I ask the Minister for Air: Has he seen Press statements by  Mr Foster,  the Federal member for Sturt in South Australia, criticising the Minister for Immigration for using a VIP aircraft in the course of the recent oil strike? Can the Minister say whether any member of the Australian Labor Party had the use of a VIP aircraft in the same period? If so, who was the member and what was the reason for the use of a VIP aircraft. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: With the current proposed expulsion of Asians from Uganda and the previous expulsion of many Asians from Zambia by devious means, will the Australian Government give support to any proposed United Nations sanctions against such blatant acts of racial discrimination? 
 It is not my practice to speak on the question that the Senate adjourn, but I have been very interested in the debate that has taken place tonight because members of the Opposition have been denigrating basically the Australian motor car industry. The companies of Ford, General Motors-Holden's and Chrysler have been mentioned tonight. One honourable senator said quite frankly that it appears that these companies go out to produce the cheapest or lowest standard product that they possibly can which they sell at the highest price they can get. However, we should bear in mind that if the motor car industry was to leave Australia, Australian workers would be out of employment. The way in which the Opposition denigrated Australian production would make wonderful ammunition for overseas companies to promote their cars against the Australian product. I think there are ways and means of pointing out to companies various faults rather than washing these matters completely in public to the extent which has been done tonight. 
Comment was passed about the Ford car. It was said that this was an expensive car which is not even capable of keeping the rain out. The reason that the transport drivers went out on strike was that when the window of the cars they were driving were let down the weather was let in. lt is true that these cars needed a weather shield. I do not disagree with this; I know that this happens. I know that this was pointed out on 2 occasions by a couple of transport drivers. I invited both of these gentlemen to see me or write to me so that I could take up this matter with the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  The next I heard of this matter was that the drivers had gone out on strike. They approached me at the beginning of the last session about this. As I said, the next I heard was when they had gone out on strike. I agree that the cars need weather shields. But I made it clear to the 2 drivers that if they came to see me I would take this matter up with the Minister. However, unfortunately this did not happen. 
That is all I want to say because one could speak for some time on this matter. However, I find it surprising tonight during the course of debate that some members of the Opposition have gone to extremes in denigrating an Australian product which is of such good value to us, not only on a dollar and cents basis but also for the livelihood of so many Australian workers. I hope that in the future we will go out and promote our products, not denigrate them. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Having in mind the blatant acts of racial discrimination by Uganda against Asians, will the Australian Government give an assurance that any sporting team from Uganda visiting this country will be given protection against racial demonstrators in an endeavour to avoid another Springbok demonstration and clearly show that the Government and great majority of people in Australia will not accept the mixing of politics with sport? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of the desire of Australians to see live on television their representatives participating in the Olympic Games at Munich, can the Minister say what is the present position concerning the dispute between the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and its employees? 
 I. am pleased there have been a number of speakers in the debate on this report of the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade entitled 'Freight Rates on Australian National Line Shipping Services to and from Tasmania'. The Committee was given the reference because so much concern was expressed, mainly by Tasmanians, when they suddenly found in 1970 that there was a 12£ per cent increase in ANL freights. 
One should point out that it had been about 11 years since there had been an increase in freights. The Committee took a wide range of evidence from some 60 people including witnesses from other shipping companies because the Australian National Line is not the only shipping company operating between Tasmania and the mainland. 
The Committee discovered interesting aspects of the freight increase. Perhaps one of the first I should mention is the fact that whilst there had been so much public concern and criticism about the 12i per cent increase in sea freights, during the same period there had been overall about a 50 per cent increase in freight forwarding charges. These increases had been applied in small percentages, but the end result was that while in the same period freight forwarding charges increased by about 50 per cent, sea freight charges increased by only 12i per cent. However, concern was expressed about the sea freight charge. 
As  Senator O'Byrne  said this morning, we must deal with the breakup of the whole transportation cost. The total charge includes a sea freight component of from 40 per cent to 45 per cent, a wharfage charge of about 10 per cent, and a land leg charge of some 40 per cent to 45 per cent. The sea freight component and land leg component are approximately equal, but the 50 per cent increase on the land leg raised no comment, whereas the 12i per cent increase over the same period on sea freight raised a lot of comment. 
Concern was expressed by many people that deficits experienced by the ANL on other sea runs were being reflected in Tasmanian freight charges. I want to make it clear that the Committee found out very early that this was not the case. The increase of  12i  per cent was related directly to the cost factors associated with transporation between Tasmania and the mainland. Tasmania is in an unfortunate position inasmuch as it is very dependent upon sea transport whereas the other States have a combination of road, rail, sea and air transport. Of course Tasmania has air transport as well. The great increases in sea transportation in the last few years have disadvantaged Tasmania to some extent. With sea freight, the shorter the sea leg the higher the cost, per mile, and the longer the sea leg the lower the cost. This is another disadvantage for Tasmania, as it is a comparatively short haul operation. 
I must be honest. As a member of the Committee I feel, frankly, without delving into local loyalties or parochialism, call it what you like, that Tasmania is at further disadvantage because it has so many main ports. But the evidence we heard clearly showed that there is a tendency these days for a greater throughput through the northern ports of Tasmania to service consumer demands and trade generally in the Hobart area and in other southern areas of Tasmania. If I were permitted to hazard a guess I would say that the natural trend will be towards an increase in this trend as time goes on. The Tasmanian Government railways are now playing a much bigger part in freight transportation. They are operating with freight forwarders, who in turn are working through the Australian National Line and other shipping companies in servicing the sea leg to the mainland. 
The Committee made many recommendations and came to many conclusions. I do not intend to deal with all of them today, but I would like to refer to 3. I will be very brief because I had an opportunity to make a few comments on this matter when I presented the report to the Senate. The first is that a recommendation has been made by the Committee that the relevant figures of trading results for the Australian National Line's Tasmanian services be made available to the Tasmanian Government in the future on a highly confidential basis. I think it is essential that this be done in order to allow those in authority in Tasmania to see clearly the pattern and what factors are involved in the increasing of costs so that there will not be any confusion or misunderstanding about them, as there was previously when concern was expressed about the  I2i  per cent increase in freight rates. That is one recommendation I hope the Government will accept and not just give consideration to. 
It was recommended that at the earliest available opportunity and no later than the renegotiation of the Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement, which will be coming up for consideration in the not too distant future, the Australian National Line be empowered to act as a freight forwarder if it so wishes. I think it is important that there be some flexibility in this respect and that the decision should be one for the Australian National Line to make. But it is also important, for quite a number of reasons, that the ANL be placed in the position of being able to act as a freight forwarder if it so desires. I say that because the position could arise whereby its competitors would have a controlling position regarding both the land leg and the sea leg as a result of the combination of those 2 major factors in transportation and the co-operation, if 1 can put it that way, of the Tasmanian Government Railways. I think that is something which should be left to the ANL to decide in the future. If it found itself to be in a position of disadvantage it should be able to overcome that disadvantage by moving into the area of freight forwarding. 
Another factor which must be considered is that freight forwarding has been clearly seen as one aspect of freight transportation in which there is quite good profitability. In this repect 1 refer to page 51 of the Committee's report and the views expressed by some of the major freight forwarders in Australia. The report states: 

 Mr E. H. P. Abeles, Managing Director of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, said that his firm was making a net profit of 31 per cent to 4 per cent on revenue on its national operations and that the  figure for the Tasmanian sector was slightly less.  Mr L.  N. Brickhill,  Chairman of Directors of the Tasmanian Road Transport Association, and Chairman of the Forwarding Section of the Association, quoted a profit figure of from 7 per cent to 10 per cent. 
So it can be seen that freight forwarders were showing a profit when the shipping companies had the great problem of increased costs producing losses that necessitated further increases in freight rates. I could dwell lengthily in this area today, but as many other honourable senators have already dealt with the subjects of freight forwarding and profitability and the need for combination of the ability to be both a freight forwarder and a sea transporter, I will leave my remarks at that at this stage. 
Another recommendation that I feel should be mentioned because of its significance is the fifth Committee recommendation, which reads: 
That subject to  the  requirement that the ANL meet its statutory obligations to pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all ils expenditure properly chargeable to revenue, and to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on its capital, the present tonnage limitation should be revised and the Line should have equal opportunity with private operators to provide any additional tonnage required on the Australian coast. 
That recommendation concerns a matter which is of great imortance. I hope that the Government will do more than just consider that recommedation because it is essential that the ANL, if it is to be a competitor of the other shipping lines, be able to have the type of modern ship which is needed today and which could require tonnage increases in order not only to be able to provide an efficient service around the Australian coastline to suit its customers but also on a dollars and cents basis to keep its freight rates as low as possible. If the ANL were not placed in this position the situation could arise where it could be out-tonnaged by other shipping companies and not be able to work at its maximum efficiency. Again that would place the ANL in a very disadvantageous position. 
One other matter that I must mention is the question of subsidies. Many of the Tasmanian senators who have spoken about this report have dealt with this question. There is a reference in minority reports of some members of the Committee to the belief that there should be subsidies. The Committee looked very closely at the question of subsidies, lt spent quite a deal of time looking at all aspects of this problem. However, it could see that it would not be in a position to make any recommendation on a subsidy for freight to Tasmania. The Committee ended up by making the following statement, which appears at page 65 of its report: 
Having in mind the particular advantages of  a  competitive climate, particularly for those who use the services provided, and having considered all the proposals put to us, we do not believe that  the  weight of the evidence establishes the feasibility, practicability or desirability of any of the subsidy proposals considered. 
I appreciate the situation in Tasmania and the views expressed so strongly by Tasmania's representatives in this chamber, but I assure honourable senators that if the Committee could have seen a way by which it could have recommended that a freight subsidy be introduced it would have done so because the Committee was sympathetic to the argument that Tasmania is definitely in a position of disadvantage. 
Nevertheless the Committee could not justifiably recommend the introduction of any subsidy in this area. Certain recommendations were made with regard to assisting of the building of ships to be placed on the Tasmanian run, but apart from that the Committee came to the firm conclusion that it would be foolish and unrealistic if it were to make any subsidy recommendation. 
The Committee worked extremely well. It travelled over a great deal of Tasmania in order to make sure that it could give consideration to the various ports in that State and to the views of the representatives of the various areas. The Committee also took quite a deal of evidence in Melbourne from representatives of various shipping companies and transporters in order to make sure that it would cover all of the aspects of its terms of reference and to be able to present to the Senate what it hoped would be a realistic report. 1 wish to pay my compliments to and thank exSenator Bull, who has since retired from the Senate, for the manner in which he conducted this inquiry as the  Chairman  of the Committee. I think the Senate owes a great deal to ex-Senator Bull for the presentation of this report by a committee under his chairmanship. 
J. have listened with a great deal of interest to  Senator O'Byrne's  comments on this Bill tonight. Firstly, may I say that the Papua New Guinea Bill 1972 increases the Ministry in the Papua New Guinea Parliament from 17 members. It is taking the Territory closer to the stage of selfgovernment. Tonight  Senator O'Byrne  has ranged very widely over many areas including, if I could say so without giving offence to him, areas slightly beyond both Papua New Guinea and the Bill. Nevertheless, I frankly feel that this is a good step forward for Papua New Guinea. At the same time, I must express my own views, which are supported by many people - both indigenous and expatriates - in the Territory. They say that one most important thing to do in this area of the world is to hasten slowly. 1 had the pleasure of talking with the Chief Minister,  Mr Michael  Somare, not many weeks ago. He expressed this point of view to me. At the same time, he also emphasised the point that as they move towards self-government they would be still relying upon much of the administration and other areas of expatriate activities that have made such a great contribution to the development of Papua New Guinea in the past. He hopes that they will continue to be able to look to these people and others in the future because the people of New Guinea will still be reliant very much on assistance from the outside world in the areas of expertise and experience. 
If we go back over the years, particularly the postwar years, and look at the contribution made by people who acted as patrol officers and district commissioners, we in Australia, as well as the people of Papua New Guinea, can pay a great deal of gratitude to these men who have spent their lifetime in some cases and many years of their lives in other cases to assist in the development of this country. They have put up with many hardships and at times many dangers. Many of these men have stayed behind in this country. I was a little concerned when I heard  Senator O'Byrne  speak rather critically of some of these men tonight because of the fact that they had taken up land in the Territory. I think that they are making a great contribution. For many of these men, this work has become their lives and in so many ways, Papua New Guinea has become their land. They are making an important contribution to this country because, without these men firstly, going in to assist the development and the education of this country and, secondly, taking a stake in it to develop it and get commercial viability in certain areas, this country would not be in the situation that it is in today - moving towards complete selfgovernment and eventual independence. 
There are men in Papua New Guinea who have virtually amassed a fortune in real estate there. If they walked out tomorrow, this would stay behind. This is a very important point. They are not amassing a fortune to take out of the country. They have it there and it is staked in the country. In many of these areas today ft will be found that expatriate Australians and others who have gone there have developed primary industry and some commercial industries. It will be found that the indigenous people also are participating in the profit on a co-operative basis. This is helping them to increase their incomes and in turn helping them to develop more economic viability within their own groups. I would not accept criticism in regard to these men. On the contrary, I would extend to them praise for what they have contributed to the development of Papua New Guinea. 
I refer to another area, as did  Senator Sim  tonight, and to many of the men in the Administration. At the present time, they are sitting in rather a doubtful position. Many of them are expressing concern in regard to their future. One can hope only that wisdom and sanity will prevail. Although  Senator O'Byrne  does not like the word 'tolerance' I will go further and say that tolerance, patience, respect and, as I said earlier, wisdom will be foremost and that many of these men will be retained in Papua New Guinea when eventually it attains self-government because they can continue to make a great contribution to the further development of the country. When speaking of increasing the number of Ministers in the Parliament of the Territory, accepting that the Territory is moving towards self-government, one must remember that the country is still a long way from development. It is a country of so many extremes; the climate ranges from tropical to temperate in the highlands. There are areas of high fertility. Some areas have high densities of population; others are sparsely populated. But most important - and therefore we must not overlook it - is the great variation in sophistication of the people. People on the coastal plains have known the western way of life for many years. Others who are still very primitive, though intelligent, will if given time develop and make a great contribution to their country. My hope is that they will not be forced to change but will be allowed to take their own time to change. As I have said, some people in the Territory have never seen a motor vehicle. There are others who have not even been found. All of these people are part of the Territory. 
I am confident that if the members of the Territory's Parliament to whom I spoke recently have their way they will progress slowly and with caution and so give their country time to develop. My hope is that there will not suddenly come into areas of power men of impatience with perhaps extreme ambition who could bring tragedy to the Territory. This has happened in other developing countries. My hope is that tragedy will not befall Papua New Guinea, because the people of the Territory are wonderful people who, given the opportunity, will develop a very great country which will play its part in South East Asia. We must all hope that they will be given time to grow into this situation and that they will not be prematurely forced into it. If they are prematurely forced into it I should hate to think what might happen to many of the people who are making such a great contribution to their own land. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral say whether any citizens of South Australia have ever been appointed as judges of the High Court of Australia? If they have not, will the Attorney-General give serious consideration to the appoint.mentment of a South Australian to such a position in the knowledge that there are many in the legal profession who have distinguished themselves and who would servo on the High Court with distinction? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Following  Senator Murphy's  support for  Scientology,  can the AttorneyGeneral say whether any State Labor government has applied to him for registration of  Scientology  as a religious body which should be registered to perform marriages? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service say whether farmers and rural workers who have registered under the rural aid scheme are classified as unemployed? If so, can he say how many have applied for aid and what effect their applications have on the percentage figures of unemployment in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has he seen Press reports attributed to  Senator Murphy  that the Government's refusal to allow further registration of foreign-owned shares in 2 uranium companies was an excuse for non-action? As the Government has taken a very firm stand regarding overseas shareholdings in uranium companies and in view of the Minister's recent strong statement, how does such a comment 'an excuse for non-action' relate itself to current Government policy? 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service see last week the telecast of  Mr David  Frost - the well known television interviewer and commentator - addressing the National Press Club in which he said that a 2 per cent unemployment rate in the United Kingdom would be regarded as a luxury? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that on a television show last night  Mr Whitlam  said that the Labor candidature of draft resister Barry Johnston is an embarrassment and that  Mr Johnston  should withdraw his nomination? If  Mr Whitlam  believes, as his statement strongly suggests, that Barry Johnston's candidature raises certain ethical principles, is it not the clear responsibility of  Mr Whitlam  to dissociate himself and the Australian Labor Party from  Mr Barry  Johnston and call upon the Victorian ALP Executive to withdraw bis candidature? If  Mr Whitlam  does not take such action, are not his words a hollow pretence and a condemnation of his own inability to lead the Australian Labor Party? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of a Press report by  Mr Denis  Warner, the well known political correspondent, that Singapore wants the Australian forces to remain in the region and has made this clear to its partners? Does this not show clearly that it is hoped Australia will continue to accept its responsibility in this region? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware of reports of another big contract to sell Australian iron and steel worth some $10m to China which was won in the face of stiff competition? Can the Minister say whether these reports are correct? If they are correct, does not this dispel the comments of the Australian Labor Party that Australian trade with China has been influenced by politics? 
When manifests of VIP flights were tabled in the Senate recently the Minister for Air indicated that further manifests of VIP flights would be tabled. Can the Minister state when this will be done? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In the event of persons being convicted of sabotage and terror or conspiring to commit acts of sabotage and terror such as the recent bombings in Sydney, will the Government deport such people if they are not naturalised citizens of Australia? What steps can the Government take regarding deportation if such persons are recently naturalised citizens of Australia? Will the Government make provision for any persons so convicted and remaining in Australia to be gaoled for the term of their natural lives with no provisions for parole? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air! Following the tabling of the manifests, of VIP flights 1 now. ask the Minister whether hecan say what, were the differences in cost between the VIP flight used by  Mr Barnard,  the  Deputy  Leader of the. Opposition in the other place, to visit Woomera in South Australia on 3rd and 4th August, and that used on 3rd August by the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  to open an aged persons home complex at Ceduna in South Australia, whose flight was criticised by the honourable member for Sturt,  Mr Foster,  at that time. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise aware' of a report in Monday's South Australian 'News' that the policymaking convention of the South Australian Labor Party has agreed that there will be virtually no censorship in South Australia next year under a South Australian Labor Government? Can he state what power the Commonwealth has in this regard and whether it is possible for a State government to agree to the publication of a book or general literature if the Commonwealth Government has banned its entry into Australia? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen reports that current wool prices are the highest since the 1955-56 selling season? Having bought in thousands of bales of surplus wool during the extremely depressed prices of last year, has the Australian Wool Commission now disposed of most of that wool at a profit stated to be $10.5m? If so, does this not show the wisdom of those on the Commission and its benefits to the Australian wool industry, completely contradicting members of the Australian Labor Party and other prophets of doom who were so critical of the operations of the Australian Wool Commission last year? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that employees of the South Australian Egg Board were issued with an ultimatum by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union to join that organisation or it would, virtually within the hour, ban the South Australian stores from accepting any egg pulp from the Egg Board? ls the Minister also aware that the South Australian Egg Board produces approximately 1,800 28 lb tins of egg pulp a day? As this volume of egg pulp represents a big proportion of production which, if disrupted, could adversely affect poultry producers generally in South Australia, will the Minister say what steps can be taken to protect poultry farmers in South Australia from such militant action by a trade union? 
Following upon the comments on the use of VIP aircraft,I ask the Minister for Air whether the VIP aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force are used for purposes other than the carrying of VIPs, such as the training of aircrew. How much time is spent in their use other than for the transportation of VIPs? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. With the big sale of Australian wheat to Mainland China, as reported last night, can the Minister confirm that this sale was negotiated by members of the Australian Wheat Board without any outside interference? Can he also confirm that al) wheat sales made by the Australian Wheat Board over the years have been made, likewise, without any outside interference? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Having in mind further acts of sabotage such as the blowing up of an electricity tower near Gladstone causing so much disruption to large areas of Queensland, I ask: What powers has the Commonwealth Government to deal with those acts of sabotage? Will the Commonwealth Government use what powers it has to deal harshly with such persons? Will the Attorney-General have discussions with the State AttorneysGeneral in an endeavour to have uniformity of penalties in Australia for acts of sabotage to stamp out this type of scurrilous activity by these degenerates in the community? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. With drought conditions in many areas in Australia, resulting in greatly reduced wheat production this year and an anticipated small endofseason carry-over, has the Minister heard comments from some individuals that wheat quotas should be abolished? Will the Minister make a statement that quotas will remain to protect the smaller farmers from being squeezed out by the big corporations and syndicates and also to prevent another wheat explosion and huge surpluses? Will the Minister also announce wheat quotas for the 1972-73 season as soon as possible in order to assist farmers in making their necessary arrangements? 
Following the operation of the F111 on active combat in Vietnam, can the Minister for Air say whether deliveries of the F111 to Australia will be any earlier than the previously arranged delivery date? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the traffic regulations in Australian States relating to axle loadings and speed limits on road transports vary so much that the maximum speed limit in Queensland is 60 miles per hour., in New South Wales it is 50 miles per hour and, according to my understanding, it is soon to be 50 miles per hour in Victoria, but it is only 30 miles per hour in South Australia? Will the Minister have discussions with the respective State Ministers for Transport in an endeavour to establish uniform traffic regulations, particularly in relation to speed limits and axle loadings? 
I rise to support the 3 Bills before the Senate and particularly the. amendment moved on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party by  Senator Byrne.  But firstly 1 commend the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on one of the very good features of the Budget - the increases In the - levels of exemption from estate duty. Two years ago we also saw increases in the .levels of exemption which were a great help to the rural industry in Austrafia at that time. However, f am particularly' pleased that on this occasion the Government has taken these provisions across the broad spectrum and these exemptions will, apply to all people although there are further benefits for the man on the land.  Senator Webster  said this afternoon when speaking in support of these 3 Bills that he was pleased that the Government proposed in this legislation to double the exemption limits. The general exemption limit will now be $40,000 for an estate passing wholly to relatives - previously it was $20.000 - and $20,000 for an estate passing to other persons. The exemption for primary producers will now rise to $48,000 where the estate passes directly to family dependants and close relatives, and to $24,000 where it passes to people outside the family. 
This is. not the first occasion on which I have spoken on estate duties either in this chamber or before I came into the Senate. I have spoken not just on the aspect of exemptions from estate duty; I have always supported the concept of complete abolition because I feel that estate duty is one of the most iniquitous taxes ever levied on a community. It was mentioned tonight that it was the Australian Labor Party which introduced estate duty. It was introduced not so much as a source of revenue but primarily to break up large estates. No doubt it has had an effect in this respect but today we have a completely changed set of circumstances which has been with us for quite some time. There are 2 areas on which one could pass comment. People do not work just for themselves. The good honest citizen is one who works for his family and in the process of working for his family he also works to give his family security. That security should not be whittled away when the breadwinner or one of the senior partners of the family unit suddenly passes from this good world. But we have this situation where a penalty is imposed upon those people who have made honest endeavours throughout their lives to do what they could for their families and dependants who are now penalised by this iniquitous form of taxation. 
We can go further and relate this situation to the rural industry in which we have seen in recent years not just problems but great tragedies faced by many families through the application of estate duty. This duty works completely in reverse to this Government's fiscal policies. We have rural reconstruction and farm build-up schemes which endeavour to establish farms of an economically viable size but we find that estate duty is working completely in reverse to these schemes. Through Government policy there is an honest endeavour to provide financial and other assistance to encourage farm build-up and economic viability but at the same time we have estate duties which are doing completely the reverse by creating what one could call a farm break-up situation. This goes further than just the rural sector and I commend this Bill because it covers the broad spectrum of the population. Many widows in urban areas have been heavily penalised by the application of probate and estate or succession duties, or what I shall call State and Federal death duties. It is not the home earner's fault if his home suddenly becomes a very valuable asset. I say good luck to those people who, as a result of wisdom and thrift and solid application throughout their working lives, have managed to save money and who, as a result of investments, have built up a nest egg. But suddenly, when the husband dies, the estate is valued and his widow is penalised. 
Yet, living in the same street can be someone who has gone through life without caring about saving - 'thrift' was the last word he ever used - and who has made no contribution whatever to his family's security. I could name widows who have had to sell their homes and properties to meet the estate or death duties in both the Federal and State areas. Therefore I repeat that this is one of the most iniquitous taxes ever applied. I say that it is far better for people to pay taxes while they are earning income and are able to pay them than to apply a penalty to their dependants after a senior member of the family has died. Nobody can say when Le will die; this is one thing in this world of which no-one can be sure. But at certain times or in certain circumstances a death in a family can have very adverse effects on the dependants. 
I recall occasions during the previous wool boom and the mining boom when a couple of people came to me with tragic problems. One which was caused by the mining boom concerned people who because of their thrift were able to purchase certain shares. At the time of the death of one of the family the shares were valued very highly. Yet by the time the estate was wound up the shares were not worth much more than the paper they were written on. Still, the family had to pay death duties on the basis of the higher value. This procedure has created great tragedy and hardship. A similar situation has applied when people learned that commercial values at inflated prices had been applied to apparently productive properties which in fact did not have the capacity to earn enough for them to pay probate and death duties over the years and so portions of the properties had to be sold to meet these duties. These are examples that show why I am completely against death duties. 
The Budget has increased the gift duty exemption level from S4,000 to §10,000. I am very pleased about this because I think gifts are one way in which a person is able to help his family. An unfortunate aspect,  however, is that, while the Commonwealth Government has increased the exemption level to a maximum of $10,000, some States retain a very low exemption level by comparison and quite high rates of duty and in many cases people are not much better off now than they were. I would hope, as  Senator Primmer  said tonight, that the State government will try to ease this duty in order to assist people to pass on some of their savings, which they have earned by a conscientious approach to their job and by applying thrift throughout their working lives, for the security of their families. They should be given the opportunity to pass some of their wealth and hard earned savings to their family dependants. I believe that people should be allowed to do this because, whether the savings be reasonably small or large, all of us place prime importance upon our family units and wish to ensure that we leave them secure. 1 repeat that I wholeheartedly support the 3 Bills which are before the Senate tonight. I commend the Treasurer for introducing them in the Budget. I will support, as I always have since I became a member of the Senate, any proposition for the abolition of death duties, I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne. 
I direct a question io the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that a large emporium in Adelaide which has stores in other capital cities in Australia increased the price of Australian produced woollen blankets by approximately $4 last week on the ground that the price of wool had gone up? As the steep rise in the price of wool took place only a few days before, is that not a glaring example of a large store taking advantage of a situation, particularly as it did not reduce the price of woollen blankets and other woollen goods when wool prices were terribly depressed last year? 
Is the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of recent debate about the cost to Jetair Australia Ltd of the 6 DC3 aircraft purchased by the Government? Can he state the facts? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service confirm Press statements that unemployment fell by 8.2 per cent last month, to a figure of 88,800, and unfilled job vacancies increased to a figure of 32,500? If these statements are correct would not the unemployment figure be much less if allowance were made for job vacancies? Further, does not this significant reduction of unemployment by 8 per cent to some 87,800 reveal those people who were forecasting that the number of unemployed would rise to 200,000 as purely prophets of doom? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Following the statement of the Minister for National Development that a uranium enrichment plant is to be established in Australia, will the Minister give serious consideration to its establishment in South Australia, as that State had a successful uranium treatment plant some years ago until its contract with the United Kingdom Government ran out and its Department of Mines was regarded very highly for its research on the treatment of uranium? 
 I have listened with a great deal of interest to this discussion tonight, both prior to the dinner adjournment and since. I was particularly interested in the comments of  Senator Cavanagh  because he was the first Opposition senator to spell out clearly that his Party is opposed to the abolition of estate duties. 
1  must confess that  1  did not hear  Senator Wilkinson's  speech. However I heard  Senator Cavanagh  spell that out very clearly tonight. I have heard many other speakers tonight but they did not state that view clearly as  Senator Cavanagh  did. I have always admired  Senator Cavanagh  for his honesty. Quite a deal of heat and emotion has been displayed in this debate tonight and there are many differing views about the approaches to be made to the whole problem of estate duties.  1  want to make it clear, as I said in a debate last week, that from the time I first came to the Senate, and ever since, I have been one of those people who have supported abolition of estate duties. I have seen on many occasions that it is not the big man who is hurt by these duties. The big man is so well off that he is able to arrange his estate in such a way, by means of forming companies and so on, that he is able to avoid estate duties. It is the smaller man who is hit every time. It is the dependant of the smaller man who is hit, be he on the land or in the urban areas - not the big man, because  9  times out of 10 the big man has ways of avoidance. So it is the little man to whom I have always looked with great sympathy and therefore I have always supported abolition of probate duties. 

 Senator Gietzelt and other speakers said tonight that the Government has had plenty of opportunity in the past to abolish estate duties. He pointed the finger at honourable senators in this chamber tonight and said that they had done nothing about this. On the occasions when this matter has come up in the Senate during my short time in this place I have not been alone because honourable senators from both parties supporting the Government have crossed the floor and supported amendments moved by the Democratic Labor Party. I refer to  Senator Prowse  and other Government supporters who have crossed the floor. 
The Opposition has said that no influence has been exerted upon the Government. I point out that when we debated this matter last week not a few senators from the Government side crossed the floor but the whole of the Government side gave a clear indication that it supported the abolition of probate duties. Opposition senators stand and say in this place that we on this side have done nothing and that we have had no effect; that those who have crossed the floor in the past have had no effect. I remind them that last week all honourable senators on the Government side as well as members of the Democratic Labor Party and the 3 independent senators stuck together in support of the policy of abolition of estate duties. That was a change from the situation of some 5 years ago when a few senators from the Government side crossed the floor. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who is leading the Government side in this debate, did not simply cross the floor; he spelt out very clearly and concisely in his opening remarks last week that there was no doubt where he stood. Having listened to other honourable senators from the Government side support that policy leading towards abolition of estate duties, the whole Government side en masse, together with the Democratic Labor Party representatives and the independent senators, moved together. 
Have any members of the Australian Labor Party ever crossed the floor on any occasion to show clearly where they stood on this issue? On no occasion have they done so. I had not been long in this place when on one occasion I threw out a challenge on this issue to Opposition senators and asked them what they stood for. I thought that their words were ringing hollowly. On that occasion not one of them would cross the floor in support of an amendment moved by  Senator Byrne.  That is why tonight I commended  Senator Cavanagh  for his words when he spelt out very clearly where the Australian Labor Party stands on the abolition of estate duties. If on any occasion  Senator McLaren  would like to accompany me to the rural areas of South Australia to discuss the abolition of estate duties, I would be only too pleased to go with him. I make my policy and where I stand very clear. I support the complete abolition. I will go to the rural areas or anywhere he likes. I invite him to go with me and he can oppose abolition. 
I have great respect for  Senator Negus,  the integrity and honesty with which he has approached this whole subject and the way he has brought his amendments into this place. I appreciate that before dinner  Senator Negus,  when he sought clarification of the situation, said: 'Because I can see the point of view of other honourable senators in relation to this matter, I am prepared to withdraw most of my amendments'. I respect him for that. I commend him for what he has put forward. I cannot support him in what he has proposed in this amendment, because I support the remarks of  Senator Byrne. Senator Byrne  spelt it out very clearly that we cannot adopt a half way house attitude. My policy has always been to support the abolition of estate duties. We cannot go to a half way house on this issue. I will stick to what I have stood for ever since I came into this place and before I came here, and that is the complete and utter abolition of estate duties. 
Again I would like to refer to the fact that a comment was passed tonight, and perhaps the finger was pointed towards  Senator Cotton  - a Minister for whom I have a high regard - that  Senator Cotton  was the man who made suggestions that  Senator Negus  should withdraw his amendments. I want to clarify this situation. In all sincerity let me state that this afternoon  Senator Devitt,  a conscientious member of a committee doing a job on this subject, was the first to rise in his place and point out the reasons why he would like to see the amendments withdrawn. He said that this matter was the subject of a reference to a Senate committee and that the committee was dealing with it. He said that he felt it should be left on this basis rather than that the Senate should make a decision on the matter. When it is suggested in this place that  Senator Cotton  was the initiator of the withdrawal of these amendments, I want to clear this point up. It was not  Senator Cotton;  it was  Senator Devitt.  I am not casting any aspersions on  Senator Devitt.  He did this sincerely as a member of a committee which he believes will come down with a fair and honest report when it has finished its inquiries. 
This debate is dealing with people or, more importantly, with the dependants of people. As I said the other night, the desire of most Australians during their working lives is to work to make sure that when they leave this good earth their dependants will have security. This is another reason why I am so critical of the fact that we have estate duties which tend to whittle away much of the goodwill and security that the parent wishes to leave for a child or that a husband wishes to leave for his spouse. So I hope that when we get into further discussions on the amendments in this Committee we can deal with them on a rational basis and perhaps leave some of the emotion out of the discussions, because this to me is one of the most important issues this chamber will ever discuss. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the purchase of 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd, to which  Senator Willesee  has just referred. Can the Minister say what steps were taken to estimate their value before the purchase was concluded? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has the Minister seen reports of a new technique called pyrolysis developed by a British Government laboratory for the successful and profitable disposal of rubbish which could earn millions of dollars a year? As this new method avoids burning and consequential air pollution by converting rubbish into various commercial gases and liquids, will he make inquiries of the British Government to see whether this new disposal method could be successfully introduced into Australia? If inquiries are encouraging, will he have discussions with the respective State Ministers for the introduction of this new method of disposal to further reduce the general pollution of the environment. 
 There seems to be a lot of confusion tonight about the words 'or otherwise'. Let me say, firstly, that under clause 38(1.) (a) the Corporation is to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. That is not the only way in which wool is sold today and this is a point which perhaps we have overlooked. At present there is private buying of wool. There is a company operating under a different method of selling, away from the authority of the Australian Wool Commission. All these things have a big bearing because it is impossible for the Corporation to operate a flexible reserve price scheme on the wool the grower sells privately to a buyer or in any other way outside the scope of the Corporation. This is what is happening at present and we must make it very clear because there is a great distinction between the methods. If we include the words 'or otherwise' we will add confusion to the Bill because these words would be completely superfluous. They are not necessary. I have been in this industry for a fair while and I appreciate the comments that have been passed. I am trying to clarify the matter and achieve some understanding of what is meant by this Bill. 
I agree. We should all try to clarify its meaning so that we can do the best thing for the industry. I do not think it is at all necessary to add these words because clause 38(l.)(a) deals specifically with the auction system and the operation of the flexible reserve price scheme within that system. A lot has been said tonight about the inclusion of the words 'or otherwise' because of the need for change. I refer the Senate to clause 38 (l.)(k) which says specifically that the Corporation is to keep under constant review the practice of the buying and selling of wool outside the auction system. In other words, it has to keep under review changes both in the. attitude to and the method of buying as well as in the system of selling. This cannot be overlooked because it is still within the basic clause. I would like to refer briefly to the different systems of buying. For years wool has been bought in a certain way on the auction floor. So much was paid for each bale of wool. So many bales of each group of bales had to be opened on the floor for physical inspection. Changes are coming into the marketing presentation of the wool clip today. The cost of buying is increasing and new approaches are being adopted. Systems such as objective measurement are now being used. 
There could be a complete change in the system of buying. It could be bought on a card system or on a quality basis without the wool being inspected. These sorts ot systems could be introduced. It is all taken care of in clause 38(1. )(k). It is entirely divorced from clause 38(l.)(a) which deals specifically with an auction system. The industry is to receive the benefit of any changes. 
Let us put it another way. We should not talk too easily about too much change too quickly. Two groups of people are involved in the wool industry - the producers and the buyers. One group cannot operate without the other group. In looking to changes everything cannot be forced down the throats of the customers. 
As customers in a shop we consider that we are right. We have the option of buying or otherwise. Moving away from buying to the selling field, entirely different methods are involved. In the selling of wool it could be acquisition, but what type of acquisition? We do not yet know these things. There are many types of acquisition. All aspects of change with regard to the buying and selling of wool are taken care of in clause 38 (1)(k) 
Reference was made tonight to paragraph (c) of clause 41 (1). The words 'or otherwise' are included in that paragraph but I ask the Committee to look closely at the wording of that provision. It states: 
the Corporation, as and when it thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme. 
There is a big difference. In this area reference is made to wool that has been purchased or is the property of the Corporation or the Authority. So it is dealing with its own wool which it can resubmit at auction. It can sell by private negotiation, by tender in any way it likes. It is an entirely different situation from that which we have been discussing in the terms of clause 38 (1) (a). We are now dealing with wool that is still owned by the growers and that is entirely different. In the first instance it is the property of the growers which is being protected by the Authority with the assistance of a flexible reserve price scheme. In terms of clause 41 (l)(c), you are dealing with a commodity that has been transferred from the producer to the authority. It is the property of the Authority which it is selling by auction or by any other method by which it can dispose of the wool. There is a great difference between the 2 situations. 
I sincerely hope that the Committee will not include the words 'or otherwise' in clause 38 (1) (a) because that would disturb the meaning of that clause. I appreciate the concern that has been expressed but the situation is completely covered by 38 (1) (k). I appeal to the Committee in the hope that it will not include the words 'or otherwise' in paragraph (a) of clause 38(1). 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports that a young South Australian journalist,  Mr Dennis  Hannon, has been arrested in Afghanistan for having allegedly attempted to smuggle hashish out of that country? Can the Minister say whether the report is correct? If so, what information has he concerning the welfare and whereabouts of  Mr Hannon? 
I direct a question to . the Minister for Works. It follows the question asked by  Senator Wright.  Has the Minister also stated that in allocating contracts consideration will be given to the degree of day labour employed by a contractor? If so, will the Minister explain what he means by day labour' and why this aspect also will be taken into consideration in the letting of contracts by his Department? 
-My question relates to the export of merino rams and' is based on the Governments stated policy of open government. Can the Minister for Primary Industry tell the Senate, why at one stage the Prime Minister agreed to lift the ban on the export of merino rams and then suddenly changed his mind? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Following the Minister's temporary decision to allow the export of 30 merino rams, can he say how. many countries at that time had ordered or. indicated their intention to order merino rams? To which countries were the 30 rams allowed for export to be sent? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. As he is a South Australian, the Minister is no doubt aware that Adelaide Ship Construction will close in May of this year due to a lack of orders. Is the Minister also aware that this company employs a considerable number of people and that it has built some of the best tugs and other vessels in Australia? in view of the well known quality product of this company and the stated Government policy of decentralisation, will the Government give immediate consideration to, and make an early announcement on, the letting of contracts to this company for the construction of some small naval vessels? If not, how does the Government's attitude align itself with the statement of the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  that defence hardware, including small naval vessels, will be built in Australia? 
My question to the Minister - for Primary Industry follows the Minister's reply to  Senator Keeffe's  question in relation to meat prices and exports. Does mb Ministers answer mean that he will give Serious consideration to suggestions which could endanger meat export contracts that have been hard earned over the years and could be lost to other meat exporting countries? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour, follows a question asked by  Senator Jessop.  Is the Minister aware of the very serious labour shortage currently being experienced by the Riverland Cannery at Berri in South Australia? Is the Minister also aware that the cannery is working at only 80 per cent of its capacity due to a labour shortage of some 100 women in the cannery? As this labour shortage is endangering quite a volume of fresh fruit through a delay in picking due to the lack of throughput in the factory, what steps will the Minister to take to alleviate this very serious problem when there is well in excess of 100 people obtaining unemployment relief in the area? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry. Has the Minister seen 
Press statements that the Dow Chemical Company of America is involved in negotiations with the South Australian Government for the establishment of a chemical plant in South Australia? Are these statements correct and, if so, were any Australian chemical companies invited to establish this particular plant in South Australia? If not, why not? Can the Minister say what will be the financial arrangements? Will there be any Australian equity and, if so, what will be the percentage? Further, as chemical processes can create environmental problems, what steps are being taken to make sure that there will be minimal pollution of the environment? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration say whether Press reports are correct that a  Mr and Mrs Bonfield  of Elizabeth South in South Australia are returning to England at the expense of the Immigration Department, as agreed to during the Christmas period of this year. I emphasise that it was during the Christmas period, after the Federal elections. If this is so and as the Government propounds the policy of open government, will the Minister give the full facts as to why this family has been granted these financial benefits? Does the Minister intend to give such assistance in the future to all migrant families which wish to return to their own countries? 
 I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. In view of the Government's bend ing over backwards policy towards China, does it intend to allow Chinese bases to be established in Australia similar to the American bases already established here? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Following statements made by the Minister for Transport, including those made prior to his coming to office, that the coastal trade would be reserved for Australian owned, built and manned vessels, what steps does the Minister now intend to take in relation to the Australian National Line entering the Australian coastal tanker trade? 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Prime Minister indicate at a Press conference, following the advocacy by  Dr Cairns  of the establishment of diplomatic relations with North Vietnam, that diplomatic relations would be going too far at that moment? Is it also a fact that  Mr Whitlam  advocated the appointment of an Australian representative to Hanoi? If this is so, can the Minister state the reasons why the Government rushed in to give premature recognition to North Vietnam before the ink on the ceasefire agreement was really dry and the fighting had stopped, particularly in Cambodia, when straight after the Federal election it virtually exported or deported the Taiwanese officials from this country? 
I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs because he omitted to answer the latter part of my previous question. I again ask the Minister: Why did the Government, so soon after the elections, virtually deport the 
Taiwanese officials from this country in its haste to close diplomatic relations with Taiwan, a country with a population equivalent to that of Australia and with 20 years of separate existence? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade concerning the recent devaluation of the United States dollar and the Australian Government's standstill policy on the Australian dollar, which has placed many of Australia's export industries at a disadvantage. I ask: What is the Government's attitude towards export incentives and will the present arrangements be updated to assist Australian exporters by ensuring that the changed situation does not place them at too much of a disadvantage? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. With the Government's encouragement of increased wheat production in this current season, is it a fact that wheat quotas will continue? If so, bearing in mind the Government's policy of greater Australian participation in industry and control of overseas companies, will he ascertain what percentage of the Australian wheat quota is allocated to overseas companies and Australian companies with overseas control in an endeavour to see whether the rights of Australian wheat growers are being fully protected? 
 I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  As broadcasting of the Senate's proceedings has been changed from Wednesday when they are normally broadcast to today, at what time tonight will the Senate now rise? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Since his raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has  the Commonwealth Police Force made any arrests of Croatian people for acts of terrorism? ls it intended to make any arrests as a result of the Attorney-General's recent raid on ASIO? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether any Yugoslav secret police were present during the Attorney-General's raid on ASIO. Has any information obtained on that occasion been passed on to any Yugoslav body or any other outside body or individual? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Police took control of the switchboard in ASIO headquarters in Melbourne during the Attorney-General's raid on the headquarters? If so, why? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry say whether any New Zealand lamb has been imported into Australia in the last few weeks? If so, how much has been imported? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that as a result of the recent improved prices for some primary products sections of the community now hold the view that the man on the land is once again in an affluent position? Will the Minister make a Press statement clarifying the position by pointing out that the man on the land has, for some considerable time, been adversely affected by low prices and rising costs? Will he also refer to the greatly reduced primary production within the last few years as a result of frequent droughts? Further, will the Minister point out that in the last few years there has been a great increase in rural indebtedness? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. As the important document discovered by the Attorney-General's visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation regional office in Canberra was only a copy, did the Attorney-General raid the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne in the hope that he would obtain the original and other important documents which he suspected may have been withheld from him by ASIO? If this is not so, why did he have the safes sealed by Commonwealth Police? 
Last Tuesday I asked the Attorney-General whether any information obtained during his raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was passed on to any Yugoslav body or any other outside body or individual. As he did not answer this question on that occasion, will he now give an answer in clear, concise language? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Following his statement in the Senate last Thursday night about police raids in New South Wales, in relation to which he - is reported in Hansard as stating that the raids were initiated in the first place by the New South Wales police, I ask him whether he has seen reports in which the Premier of New South Wales has emphatically denied that the New South Wales police initiated the raids on 80 homes in the early hours of Saturday, 31st March? Will the Attorney-General state who did initiate this terror raid which must remind so many new Australians of their earlier life when they lived in fear of that knock on the door during the hours of darkness? 
 I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has the AttorneyGeneral seen the sign on the door of the office of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate which can be correctly read as M15 - M-15 - or misinterpreted as M.I.5? In view of the Attorney-General's raid on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Melbourne, I ask: Will the AttorneyGeneral give an assurance that he will not misinterpret the sign as being M.I.S, which could result in an embarrassing visit to the office of the Leader of the Opposition? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister seen reports of the critical situation that has arisen in Cambodia due to increased hostilities in that country? What steps are being taken by the Australian Government to bring about a cessation of hostilities in Cambodia, whose only desire throughout has been one of neutrality and peace? 
asked the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Government continue with the subsidies which were instituted by the Liberal-Country Party 
Government, having regard to the current prices and economic climate for the rural industries. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government is not bound to continue the policies of the previous Government on subsidies for rural industries. Existing Commonwealth assistance for rural industries will be reviewed in the light of the present circumstances in each industry. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. Do the comments of the Minister for Primary Industry at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Committee for Agriculture conference in Paris that any future price guarantee to the wheat industry will be strictly limited mean that returns to wheat growers in the future will be determined by world prices and that the Australian wheat industry will be competing with highly subsidised exporters such as Canada and the United States of America? 
 I must rise to speak on this matter because  Senator Poyser  tonight has referred to an arrangement between Whips.  I  want to make it perfectly clear and place it on the record that I did not supply any names to your desk tonight,  Mr President.  I had no arrangement with  Senator O'Byrne  at all tonight with regard to the speakers list. That is correct and  Senator O'Byrne  will verify it.  I  thank  Senator Poyser  for referring to my earlier conduct as Whip in this place.  I  have always tried to give fair play. But I must refute what  Senator Poyser  said tonight. No arrangement was made between the Whips tonight.  I  say that in fairness to  Senator O'Byrne  also. We have worked together with mutual respect, and  I  do not like this sort of comment being passed tonight against either myself or  Senator O'Byrne.  The other point  I  must make in fairness to my own Leader and in all honesty, is that he rose in his place when  Senator James  McClelland sat down and not one Government senator rose. In fact, if Government senators had been watching closely they might have seen me rise at one stage because  I  thought  I  might buy into the debate to scratch a little ground around the place. The Leader of the Opposition received the call and that was that. Not one Government senator rose to speak on this matter.  I  deny the charge that has been made against  Senator Withers. 
I refer to the conviction and execution of 3 Australian citizens in Yugoslavia, and ask the Minister assisting the Prime Minister: Has the Commonwealth Government sought to obtain a transcript of the evidence of the trials and of subsequent appeals in this matter? If not, why not? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question which follows upon Press reports of his recent speech to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, meeting in Paris. Will the Minister table a copy of his speech to clarify his expressed views on issues such as wheat stabilisation, the guaranteed price and other financial aspects and policies involving rural industry, which matters were reported as having been discussed by the Minister in Paris? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Is it a fact that the flights that arrive in Adelaide from Perth at about 6 a.m. normally make their approaches from the sea and that they cause little noise disturbance to the people of Adelaide but that other aircraft making their approaches to the airport usually do so over the suburbs and cause a higher noise disturbance? Will the Minister make every endeavour to have aircraft, particularly those on night flights, make their approaches to Adelaide Airport from the sea wherever possible and thereby cut down considerably on the noise factor over Adelaide? 
In fairness to  Senator O'Byrne,  the Government Whip, I must clarify the situation, following the remarks which were made by  Senator McManus.  The time factor this morning was such that the deadline had been nearly reached, that is the Senate sitting, before I had an opportunity to discuss the matter with  Senator O'Byrne.  There was not time to go any further. 1 did not have time to talk to either  Senator Maunsell  or  Senator Byrne.  There was no premeditated connivance between  Senator O'Byrne  and myself. The time factor was such that it was impossible for me to have any further discussions at that time. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate) - by leave -  Senator McManus  has raised an important matter. The working and business of the Senate need to be regularised if we are to get through the business with efficiency and expedition. When in Opposition I spoke with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate and his predecessors virtually each morning. The business has to be arranged either between the leaders or between the Whips.- I ask the leaders of the Opposition parties to call upon me so that the business of the Senate can be arranged. The leaders ought to get in touch with me, or the Whips should have discussions so that arrangements can be made. The Government Whip and the Opposition Whip have endeavoured to make some arrangement. Their discussions probably did not conclude. They were doing the best that they could. It is not fair if complaints are made about the endeavours which are made if the long standing arrangements are not being pursued. I know that all honourable senators are under pressure of work. The work has expanded. That fact has to be recognised. Arrangements have to be made either outside the chamber or as has been done here. 
The proposal put by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  seemed to be reasonable enough to us. I suggest that the Opposition Whips ought to get in touch with  Senator O'Byrne  on these matters so that the order of business can be sorted out. I think they have a duty to get in touch with  Senator O'Byrne.  If they fail to communicate with him in some way, there ought to be no complaints. The long standing practice has been to communicate with the Government Whip. I do not want to criticise anyone. We do not want any fuss. I suggest, with all respect to the Senate, that this is the way in which it ought to be done. 
I refer to comments by the Minister for Primary Industry at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development conference in Paris recently where he stated that future price guarantees to the wheat industry would bc strictly limited. Does this mean that returns to Australian wheat growers in future will be determined by world prices and that the Australian wheat industry, irrespective of the effects of rising costs of production over which the industry has no control, will be competing with highly subsidised exporters such as Canada and the United States of America? Also, does he agree that credit sales of Australian wheat, particularly to developing countries, should be regarded as a national responsibility and consequently should be borne by the Australian community rather than by the Australian wheat grower as has been the case in the past? 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence whether he can say when the first of the FI 1 1 aircraft will arrive in Australia. Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  flew in an F1 1 1 aircraft when on a visit to the United States of America some time ago and that since then he has never really criticised the Fill? Will the Minister, as the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, be making a flight in an Fill when the aircraft arrive in Australia in order to obtain a first hand impression of the features of this aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Earlier this week I asked him a question about his statement that any future price guarantees to the wheat industry would be strictly limited. He inadvertently overlooked one part of my question when he answered it, so I repeat that part of my question to him. Does this mean that returns to the Australian wheat growers in future will be determined by world prices and that the Australian wheat industry, irrespective of the effects of rising costs of production over which the industry has no control, will be competing with highly subsidised exporters such as Canada and the United Slates of America? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Some weeks ago I asked him could he say whether there was any, truth in Press reports in Adelaide newspapers that a  Mr and Mrs Bon  field of Elizabeth South in South Australia returned to England at the expense of the Department of Immigration and that this was agreed to during the Christmas period last year. I emphasise :th.at .it was during the Christmas period: - after the Federal election. If this is so, as the Government propounds a policy of open government, will the Minister give the full facts as to why this family was granted financial benefits? Does the Minister for Immigration intend. to give such assistance in future to all migrant families which wish to return to their home countries? 
This evening I have seen happen in the Senate chamber something which I never thought or hoped I would see, that is, the breaking of an agreement which has been a traditional institution of the Parliament. It is something that I will long remember. I hope that Government members will long regret the action which they took tonight. Going through life one faces many disappointments. This is one disappointment which I did not expect to face. I have been Whip for nearly 2 years, first in government and then in opposition. During that time I have on all occasions stood by my arrangements and agreements with my counterpart in the Australian Labor Party. Mutual trust and respect underlined everything we did and every arrangement which we made. One of the present Government senators was sick when I was Government Whip and on that occasion I went to  Senator O'Byrne  and said: 'Your senator will have a pair all the time that he is sick. I have respect for him. This will be the understanding.' 
When we became the Opposition one of the first things 1 did was to go again to  Senator O'Byrne,  who was the Government Whip, and offer him exactly the same arrangement, and that arrangement has stood. Tonight we saw that honourable senator come into the chamber. I am going to say now that the honourable senator did not walk into the chamber voluntarily because I have too much respect for him to say that. He was driven into this Senate tonight, without a doubt. Let him speak for himself if he denies it. I have so much respect for this man that I am certain he would not have done this on his own. Much has been said by  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Bishop  tonight about the fact that pairs will not be on when anything is associated with the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
We have just heard another interjection from another honourable senator on the Government side of the Senate. Let us put this matter on a proper basis,. I do not intend to get stirred up. Already there has been too much emotion tonight. 1 want to put my case fairly and factually. We have had a pair arrangement since we became the Opposition, with 3 parties on this side of the chamber. Arrangements for pairs have always stuck. We have stood at all times by our arrangements at a Whips level and at a Party level. If, as  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Bishop  said tonight, no pairs were on when any motion came from the DLP, why did the Government stand by its pair arrangement when the DLP moved an urgency motion in this place? On that occasion the Government stood by its pairs. Why then was there a sudden change of attitude tonight? 
As  Senator Marriott  has reminded me, the Government also stood by its pairs tonight with  Senator Turnbull's  amendment. One of the things that disappoints me most is the fact that, as I said earlier, I have worked on a basis of understanding, co-operation and trust with my counterpart,  Senator Justin  O'Byrne. Yet he said tonight in clear terms that he decided that there would be no pairs. I would not have objected if he had let me know that this was what he had decided. But I do not regard it as playing the game when I crossed the chamber after division was called for, got to the other side ready to take my seat and, as Whips do, counted and checked off the numbers and then was informed at that late stage that pairs were off. As I have said, we have had a standing arrangement with one of the Government senators. I have so much respect for this man and so appreciate his physical position that I will still give him a pair because I will not be responsible as Opposition Whip for seeing that this man is placed in perhaps an embarrassing situation. If Sena tor O'Byrne does not want to keep this arrangement then that is up to him. I have respect for my fellow man. 
However, I am beginning to wonder just how long ago today  Senator O'Byrne  decided that there would be no pairs. An arrangement was made tonight that 3 pairs would be given and this arrangement was broken. One pair was arranged with a sick senator. 1 gave another pair to the Government because one of its senators was to be absent from this chamber for the whole of this week. That senator, arrived back in Canberra this morning. We informed that Government senator that one of our senators, not knowing that he would be coming back and thinking that he was off for the week, was paired and had gone home. 
I did not,  Senator Poke.  I have made my position clear. This morning the Government was aware of the fact that one of our senators was away from Canberra. Late this afternoon, in fact at 4.45 p.m., another of our senators was desirous of going home for domestic reasons and I told him that he would not be given a pair. Then I was informed that the Government was only too happy to give him a pair - at 4.45 p.m. Then I allowed him to go home. I wonder what time today  Senator Justin  O'Byrne decided that pairs would be off? That is not a nice question to have in the back of one's mind after having worked closely with somebody for nearly 2 years. We have stood by each other and have been honest with each other all the way through. 
Taking the matter further in order further to clarify the situation to the Senate, after dinner tonight I called  Senator O'Byrne,  the Government Whip, out of the Senate chamber and I discussed pairs with him on a name basis. That would have been at approximately 9 p.m. We went outside the doors of the chamber where we normally go to discuss our arrangements.  Senator O'Byrne  did not say a word then and he agreed that they were the pairs. Yet about li hours later when we had crossed the floor of this chamber I suddenly was informed that pairs were off. 
Even when I grant pairs for Government senators, as I have done - if honourable senators doubt my word they should ask honourable senators on this side of the chamber - on most occasions our senators are still in this Parliament because I do not allow them to go home. I keep them in Canberra unless they have a good reason to leave, even if they are paired to allow one of the Government supporters to leave this building. I keep Opposition senators here.  Senator O'Byrne  knew that one Opposition senator had left because he was informed about it this morning but even if he thought that the other senator was still in Canberra there would not have been time for me to get him into this chamber. That illustrates the timing of the exercise. 
All I can say is that I am terribly disappointed. I thought that we had a better feeling of trust between us. If  Senator O'Byrne  had wanted to call off his pairs I think he could have done the right thing by me and informed me. I challenge any honourable senator on the Government side to say that I have let him down in any way at all on any occasion. I have done my best to give complete co-operation to honourable senators on the Government side. I gave complete cooperation when I was on the Government side in assisting the Opposition party in that respect if I could. I have done my best. I am sorry that tonight somebody in the Opposition has not done so.  Senator O'Byrne  has declared himself and to me he has done his worst. 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that the Yugoslav Government still will not guarantee to notify the Australian Government if any people holding dual Australian- Yugoslav passports are detained in Yugoslavia? What steps, if any, are being taken by the Australian Government to protect Australian citizens overseas and to have Australian citizenship recognised by such governments as that in Yugoslavia? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report in today's Press that television programs will be awarded points on a merit basis from now on? ls this report correct? Is it also correct that some of the more popular programs will rate the lowest points? Is it correct that a television station must obtain a certain quota under the points system or it may lose its licence? If this is so, is this one method of reducing the number of commercial television stations and an indirect method of obtaining some Government control over the television media? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. The Minister answered my previous question about quotas for television stations on a points system but I also asked him whether they would stand the risk of losing their commercial television licences if they did not receive a certain base quota. The Minister did not answer that point. Will he do so now? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Following yesterday's decision to reduce the subsidy for the wheat stabilisation scheme to a maximum of $l5m will the Government continue the superphosphate subsidy and, if so, at what level? Is the reduction in the subsidy for the wheat stabilisation scheme a warning to primary industry generally that the Government intends to reduce or abolish subsidies for rural industries? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, follows questions I asked of the Minister yesterday in regard to the points system for television programs. I ask the Minister: Who will decide the basis of rating for these programs and the quota of points that television stations must obtain? 
I direct a question to  the Minister for the Media. Following his statements on the proposed points system for television programs, including a base quota, which could result in some of the most popular programs receiving the lowest points, I ask: Can the Minister state what will happen to a television station that does not reach its base quota? Will its television licence be cancelled or will it be restricted and will much of its operations and programs be controlled by a commission similar to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
I direct a question to  the Minister assisting the Prime Minister. Has the Minister seen Press reports that many Australian tourists who are travelling on a package tour with the French airline UTA have been stranded overseas because of an Australian Council of Trade Unions ban on French goods and services, and that UTA has refused to endorse the transfer of the tourists' air tickets to other airlines? What steps has the Government taken to assist the unfortunate Australian citizens who are the victims of a defiance of the Prime Minister's requests by trade unions which have taken control of the institution of government? 
 MayI ask one more question? Were these permits originally issued by the Western Australian Government, the Commonwealth Government of the time, or the territories? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  whether these discussions will be held directly with the Portuguese Government? If Australia is unable to reach any finality is it the intention of the Government to take the matter to the international area in order to obtain some clarification? 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister. With  Senator Murphy  presenting a case to the International Court of Justice in The Hague on French nuclear tests and the rights and protection of humanity, can the Minister say whether the AttorneyGeneral will be returning home via Yugoslavia in order to have discussions with the heads of Government in that country on the rights and protection of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia and, further, to ascertain whether any Australians are being held in custody there? If the Attorney-General does not intend to do this, will the Government instruct him to do so as this is also an important matter of human rights? 
Earlier today I addressed a question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister and referred to the possibility of  Senator Murphy  coming home via Yugoslavia so° that he could look into various aspects of the human right1: of Australian citizens in that country. The Minister passed the question off in rather a light manner. 
Yesterday, I asked the Minister assisting the Prime Minister whether he had seen reports of Australians being stranded overseas because of the Australian Council of Trade Unions ban on French goods and services, including Australians overseas on package tours with UTA, the French airline? The Minister replied that he had not seen those reports. I now ask the Minister whether he has made inquiries since that question was raised by me yesterday. If so, what steps is the Government now taking to give assistance to those people who . are stranded overseas? 
I wish to refer to the sea bed boundary between Portuguese Timor and Australia. I ask the Minister whether he can state how much of the off-shore area between Australia and Portuguese Timor is still undecided. Further, were any attempts made to have discussions with the Portuguese Government at the time discussions were held with the Indonesian Government with the aim of trying to get clarification of all this off-shore line of demarcation at the same time? As the Minister says that it is hoped to have discussions later this year, can he give any indication as to when those discussions are likely to take place? 
I refer to clause 5 (c) which deals with areas adjacent to the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands. It was stated in the second reading speech that , some 6 exploration permits' in the Ashmore and Cartier Islands or adjacent areas will be greatly reduced. Firstly, I ask: By how much have these permit, areas been reduced? Secondly, can the Minister say which companies held the permits in those areas? 
1  do not accept the proposition put by the Government this afternoon that we should virtually rush this Bill through the chamber, because the Bill is of such magnitude that it is necessary for us to spend some time deliberating the various issues within it. As one who served on the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources for quite some time I was heartened to hear  Senator Wright's  reference to the Committee's report, particularly to the in-depth inquiry and study which the Committee made regarding the transmission of hydrocarbons in the United Kingdom, Italy, Canada and the United 
States of America. History has undoubtedly shown, particularly in the United States and Canada, that great problems occurred as a result of the lack of uniformity of approach, the varying gauges of pipelines and the criss-crossing of pipelines throughout the United States and Canada, and it was necessary for those countries to establish both authorities and commissions to deal with the transmission of hydrocarbons. 
The Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources produced a report which recommended that a commission be set up when a situation of interstate transmission arose in Australia. This afternoon a Government senator referred to part of the Committee's report and  Senator Wright  this evening quoted the report. 1 wish for several reasons to refer to the report and I shall quote part of it. It states: 
For these reasons - 
They were expressed earlier by  Senator Wright-  the Committee believes that an advisory authority - 1 emphasise the word 'advisory' -  should be established with Commonwealth and State representation which would be empowered to make a comprehensive continuing survey of Australia's fuel and energy needs and tender advice to Commonwealth and Stale governments on all matters relevant to the use and production of fuel and energy. 
That finally came out as a recommendation. Again, I want to underline the word 'advisory'. There is a terrific difference between an advisory' capacity and one of complete ownership and control. I wish to go on to page 296 of the Committee's report where it made the further recommendation: 
The Committee considers that, if a need for a network of interstate pipelines is established, the Government should  consider  the  re-establishment  of the Inter-Stale Commission empowered to regulate the interstate transportation of oil and gas. The Committee so recommends. 
The reason why I have quoted those 2 recommendations of the Committee is that it spent considerable time during its inquiries to delve very deeply into the need for some type of authority or commission for the tranportation of hydrocarbons within the continent of Australia. Finally, it came out with the recommendation for the revival of the old InterState Commission. So I do not accept the proposition that the Government has put before us, namely, that we finish up virtually with a government-owned and controlled transmission network throughout Australia. At the present time, we have a situation in which cities such as Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne, and Brisbane already are connected to natural gas with pipelines supplying them from the various gas fields. We read in the second reading speech of the Minister,  Mr Connor,  that there will be a connection of all these areas to various gas fields in order to have a continental hook-up or grid. The Minister states: 
From Gidgealpa the pipeline will be linked to the Palm Valley field in the Amadeus Basin of the Northern Territory. From there it will continue to Dampier on the north-west coast of Australia where the resources of the north-west shelf will be available. The proposed pipeline route will also traverse and serve the Pilbara region of Western Australia. There will also be a spurline to serve the Northern Territory. 
We can see here a great ring of pipeline connection of the known gas fields in Australia at the present time. We do not object to this being done and it is not expected that it will be done immediately. But we can see the clear intention of the Government regarding this matter at the present time. I pose: What will be the position of the intrastate pipelines already in existence? I refer to those pipelines that already are supplying the capital cities that I have mentioned from their various gas fields. I just pose this question about what the situation will be when finally they come into a national hook-up. Then, we will have the situation of varying ownership. No doubt, eventually the Government, if it is still the Government, will by one means or another endeavour to get complete control of those existing intrastate pipelines. 
I say again as I did when I was on the Senate Select Committee for Off-shore Oil, there is need for some form of commission to get uniformity and to make sure that we finish up with a well planned system of pipelines for transmission of our hydrocarbons throughout Australia. I hope that we will never see the situation develop that we have had in regard to our railways. I refer to the lack of uniformity in our railways throughout the continent. It is a problem which today has become very expensive to overcome and which is still in the process of being overcome. One of the things that concern me is that already, to my knowledge, contracts have been let for the pipeline to go from the GidgealpaMoomba gas fields to Sydney. Contracts have been let to both Australian and Japanese manufacturers to supply the pipes. Suddenly, there has been this delay. The Gov ernment said that it intended to introduce this legislation. It said that it was one of the things it would do. But it has taken so long from the announcement of that intention to bring in legislation to cover this, particularly to get things underway. Today we hear reports that a delay of over 5 months has cost something like an extra $20m above what it would have cost if the scheme had been commenced when it was initially announced. I appreciate that this is only a report of an extra $20m, but I understand that it is a report of a statement from  Sir William  Pettingell who is a very responsible man. He was quoted tonight by  Senator Wright  who gave full support to some system to control and organise the construction of transmission lines throughout Australia. 1 mention that the amount cited of $20m may not be the only problem. 
I pose the question: Who is to construct this pipeline? Will it be done by a government authority under a public works system or some other system? 
The honourable senator says that he hopes so. I just wonder how much more it will cost if it is left to be done on this basis instead of sub-contracting or letting out the work by tender. In my State of South Australia the Government was wise enough when it connected Adelaide to the Gidgealpa South Australian gas field to make sure that the work was done by tender. That tender was let to an overseas company which very efficiently and effectively laid that pipe. The Government that did that was a Labor Government. It could see the necessity of getting on with the job and having it done as expeditiously as possible, at the same time having.it done as cheaply as possible because time costs money in many of these things. One has only to refer to the situation in the case of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. This matter was referred to this afternoon. We were told how eventually when there was a change of government the Liberal-Country Party coalition took over and let many of the contracts in that area to private companies, as a result of which much of the work was finished well ahead of schedule. Previously, until that Government came into power, much of that work was far behind.schedule. 
I now turn to the actual Authority itself. Great responsibility will be placed upon it because it will be asked to do many things. I refer to clause 13 (1) (a) of the Bill where the functions, duties and powers of the Authority are stated. The clause states:   . . the functions of the Authority are -  (a)  to  construct pipelines  for the conveyance of petroleum recovered from Australian petroleum pools to centres  of  population and points  of export  with a view to the establishment of a  national  integrated system of such pipelines, and to maintain and operate those pipelines:  The authority will have great responsibility with such vast mileages of pipelines to be laid in determining which direction the pipeline will take. I would only hope that in the exercise of that responsibility discretion will be shown and that members of this proposed Authority will work in co-operation with the States, get opinions from the States and otherwise co-operate with them in such a way that it will be in the best interests of the States to link its cities and towns to the. transmission. Also, I hope that the Authority will not be under the influence of some local member of Parliament to do things to help him in his local needs. This also is most important. I note that the complement of the committee is five'. There is a chairman, the secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy, a full-time executive member and 2 other members will be a members of a trade Minister's second reading speech, one of these other members will be a member of a trade union. 
T. am not saying there is anything wrong with that. I am just hoping that all including the other member will be ones with a great interest in and knowledge of the commercial world to make sure that all aspects in relation to the needs and operations of this Authority will be in the best interests of the country. The reason 1 express concern regarding the cost of construction is that the only person who really pays for it is the consumer. The longer it takes to construct the pipeline, the longer people, will be without the benefit of a cheaper form of power both in homes . and in industry. If, through inefficiency, the cost of the pipeline increases, to enable that cost to be amortised the cost of transmission will have to increase, and the consumer will have to pay the penalty. 
As I said earlier, it is essential that these pipelines be constructed as efficiently and as cheaply as possible. I emphasise again that great responsibility will be placed on the Authority which will be in charge of the construction of these various pipelines. Another very important factor is that this Pipeline Authority must be a common carrier. We could express concern that the Authority may not be a common carrier in the true sense of the term. I say that because the Bill allows the Authority to buy and sell hydrocarbons - liquids and natural gas. I refer to Part III of the Bill, which concerns the functions, duties and powers of the Authority. Clause 13 states that the functions include: 
to convey, through the pipes operated by tho Authority, petroleum belonging  to  the Authority or to other persons; and 
to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere. 
Firstly, I presume that the Authority will set the price for transmission and also will set the price that it is prepared to pay for the natural gas at the well-head. The fact of the Authority being a buyer and seller of gas and having complete control of the transmission of the gas as a carrier will place the Authority in a position of complete monopoly. The situation could occur that the Authority would be the only carrier and, as I said, it will have complete control of the transmission. Secondly, the Authority could charge excessive prices for the transmission of natural gas, particularly to competitors. One appreciates that if the Authority owns the pipeline it will not charge itself. Also, the Authority will not pay any taxation. One can see straight away the advantages to this Authority in that, even though it will be a common carrier and a public utility, at the same time to some extent it will be in the field of commerce and standing on its own feet. 
Also, with the Authority having the power to buy and sell the product and having control of the outlet from the wellhead to the consumer, or the gate of ditribution at the consumer end, it could force all of its competitors who also had potential markets into a situation where they would finish up being in a buyer's market and not a seller's market because the Authority would be able to call the tune completely. The ability of the Authority to buy and sell and to have control of the transmission concerns me very greatly, particularly when I read that the Authority will be able to operate overseas. There could also be an inflow of hydrocarbons, both liquid and gas, which would place the Authority in an extremely strong commercial position - a position of monopoly against its competitors. 1 think that we as a nation have to be particularly careful in this area. If advantage were taken of the monopolistic situation, competitorscould virtually be forced out of the market. That- could be done because the Authority has control of all aspects. At present there is a  25-  per cent freeze on all overseas funds. So, the situation could develop - I hope it does not - where producers would be virtually forced into an uneconomic position. As a consequence of this freeze and the high cost of getting funds into Australia for exploration, a complete killing of the incentive for further exploration of our natural resources could occur. That is one thing we do not want. 
The development that has taken place in this country in the last few years has been of great advantage to us and a great surprise to a very many people. Today it is a fact of life. This development has occurred because of the outside assistance which has been made available in the fields of expertise and finance. If we as a nation think that at the present time we can carry out this exercise completely a'one, I can see us reaching a stage where we will feel very sorry for ourselves because exploration work in this country will dry up. At the present time there is a killing of incentive. The fact must not be overlooked tl'.at Australia is not the only country with potential. I grant that we have some of the greatest potential in the world because of the great area of continental shelf that we have right around our shores. But other countries have great potential and are finding hydrocarbons in places where a few years ago they thought it hardly worth looking. Hydrocarbons are being found under the snow and out in the North Sea, and the latest we hear is that potential fields of hydrocarbons have been discovered in South East Asia. Discovery goes on. With the advanced technology available today, exploration is being made at far greater depths in the off-shore areas. It was not long ago that drilling could take place only in shallow depths. Today exploration is going further afield. 
I emphasise that it is necessary that we encourage incentive for exploration in this country. Therefore, we must make sure that this Authority gives the opportunity to anybody who wishes to transmit his hydrocarbons through this network of pipes. The situation must not develop where the Authority has complete control of natural gas in this country. I emphasise that we must make sure that this Authority operates in the national interest and does not operate in the interests of social philosophies. I hope that that is not the intent of this Bill, but the Bill contains so many provisions that could lead to this type of thing that it is necessary for my Party, as a responsible Opposition, to move many amendments to this Bill tonight in the interests of this country. I hope that when this Authority develops its pipelines throughout this country it will be in the interests of the country and not for certain sectional political reasons. 
I give my support to the basic concepts of. this Bill. But I certainly will be supporting amendments when they are introduced later, it is necessary that we deal with many aspects of this Bill which is so full of anomalies. I could deal with many other aspects of the Bill, but I appreciate that further time will be available to discuss many of those points in the Committee stage. As I said, I give my support to the concepts of this Pipeline Authority, but I reserve my right to speak in the Committee stage when I will be supporting certain amendments which will be moved. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it not a fact that earlier this year 12 Rhodesian girls of the Girls Brigade, a multi-racial religious organisation, who were en route to New Zealand were refused entry to Australia at Sydney Airport because they were Rhodesian? Is it also a fact that these young girls were refused an opportunity to meet members of the Australian Girls Brigade who had come to meet them? ls it also a fact that after spending approximately 2 weeks in New Zealand these girls were finally allowed to spend one night in Sydney on their way home because of the public outcry at the harsh treatment meted out to them by the Australian Government? Why then, if such extreme discrimination was used against these young girls, is the Aus tralian Government -now allowing easy entry and free movement to 2 recognised African Rhodesian extremists and radicals? 
Is the Minister assisting the Prime Minister aware that both France and China opposed a motion which was moved at the World Health Organisation by Australia and which condemned atomic tests in the atmosphere? As both France and China opposed this motion, will the Government send a formal letter of protest to China and France for not supporting such a resolution? 
 I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. I refer again to the proposed points system for television programs and the base quota of points that will be allocated. I again ask the Minister: Will this mean that a commission or some other body will be established to have some system of control over the operations and the programs of commercial television stations? 
1 was amazed to hear Government senators interjecting tonight that the Opposition is trying to delay this legislation. 
The interjections came from the Government side. As far as 1 am concerned, every amendment that has been put forward tonight has been in the national interest and with a view to protecting the individual. Our proposal to extend from 7 days to 30 days the period of notice which must be given is a clear example of our trying to protect the rights of the individual. Clause 18 gives the Authority a great amount of power. As  Senator Durack  said, under clause 1 8 it can construct, take all sorts of materials on to a property, make cuttings and excavations, deposit all sorts of materials, erect workshops, sheds and other buildings, and even make roads through a property. On top of this it will also have the power to 'demolish, destroy or remove on or from land so occupied, any plant, machinery, equipment, goods, workshop, shed, building or road'. 

 Senator Webster has asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  for a definition or an interpretation of paragraph (2) of clause 18 which states: 
The Authority shall construct a pipeline only on or under land' owned by the Authority or in respect of which there is vested in the Authority the right to construct a pipeline. 
So the Authority is given terrific powers under this legislation. Surely we can extend from one week to 30 days the period of notice. The pipeline will not be built in areas which are easily accessible and where one can get in touch with a person within 24 hours. It could take a week or more to get in touch with a person. It is essential that these people be given time to see what is proposed to be done to their property and to discuss the proposal with the Authority. I think that the Government should show respect to the people who will be affected by accepting the amendment moved by  Senator Durack.  If it does not, all I can say is that it has no respect for the civil rights of the people of this country. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware that Australia's trade with Taiwan has doubled in the last 2 years to some $90m? For many reasons, including that of trade, and following the statements of the Minister for Overseas Trade as reported yesterday, will the Government reconsider its attitude towards Australian trade with Taiwan and appoint trade commissioners in an endeavour to establish better trading relations and facilitate the opportunity for the development and expansion of trade with that country, which has deteriorated during recent times because of the Government's policy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has he seen statements by the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  that the question of Australian trade with Taiwan was raised by the Chinese and that Australian companies will continue to do business with both Taiwan and China? As the Australian Government has now been given permission by the Chinese to trade with Taiwan, will the Government reconsider its attitude towards trade with Taiwan by establishing trade commissioners between our 2 countries in an endeavour to facilitate and encourage increased trade between Australia and Taiwan? 
 I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  whether there have been discussions between the Commonwealth and the States about clause 39 of the Bill. If there were discussions, what was the outcome of those discussions? Can the Minister answer those questions for me? 
 The answer of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  causes me grave concern. The matter is not a light one. It deals with legislation which has been passed previously not by the Federal Parliament only but by the Federal Parliament and each State parliament. It is mirror legislation, as  Senator Durack  has said. It has been a wonderful example of co-operative federalism between the States and the Commonwealth. By co-operation the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act came into force. The Bill contains provisions which relate to licences for the construction, maintenance, etc., of pipelines in submerged areas. The Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act contains a preamble of an agreement, which states very clearly - I shall read it in a minute - the moral obligations of each of the parliaments, including the Federal Parliament which naturally means the Government. The Agreement is emphasised in the preamble to the Act. On page 2 of the Act it is set out. In reference to the Agreement, it states: 
And whereas the governments of the Commonwealth and of the States have accordingly agreed to submit to their respective parliaments legislation relating both to the continental shelf and to the seabed and subsoil beneath territorial waters and have also agreed to co-operate in the administration of that legislation. 
I emphasise the words 'have also agreed to co-operate in the administration of that legislation'. The Agreement imposes a moral obligation. It was reached between the Commonwealth and the States. After lengthy deliberations Part II, clause 6, on page 3 of that Agreement spells out very clearly the obligation. Clause 6 states: 
(1.) Except in accordance with an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State Governments, a Government will not submit to its Parliament a Bill for an Act that would either - 
amend or repeal an Act that is contemplated by the preceding provisions of this Part; or 
in any material respect affect the scheme of the legislation that is contemplated by this Agreement 
Here we have such an important aspect as this and the Minister directly responsible, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  not the Minister in this place  (Senator Wriedt)  - I say that in fairness to him - should have spelled it out. If there has been no discussion with the States or, alternatively, if there has been discussion with the States and agreement has not been reached with the States, we have a situation whereby the Commonwealth Government is at present riding roughshod over the States and abrogating an Agreement that has been reached between the States and the Commonwealth on this very important and complex piece of legislation for which a Senate select committee was established and which sat for some 3? years. More importantly than this is the fact that it took about 5 or 6 years of negotiation and discussion before final agreement was reached for both the Agreement itself and the principal Act. It took all those years of discussion, co-operation and compromise between the States and the Commonwealth and yet we find the Commonwealth Government is today treating this matter so lightly. This causes me grave concern. Clause 39 of the Pipeline Authority Bill says: 
Division 4 of Part in of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-73 dors not apply - 
to or in relation to the construction, maintenance or operation of a pipeline in an adjacent area within the meaning of that Act by the Authority under this Act, or 
in relation to a pipeline that the Authority proposes to construct in such an adjacent area. 
This is completely the reverse of what is contained in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. I have said that if there has been no discussion or that if there has been discussion and no agreement reached, then it is unfortunate that the Government of the day in the federal sphere sees fit to ride roughshod over agreements that have been reached between the parliaments of this country. 
I rise to answer some of the comments of the Minister. I cannot accept the proposition that the Federal Government should take upon itself the right to abrogate an agreement and to try to delete one of the main sections of a very important Act which has been agreed to by the various State Parliaments and the Commonwealth Parliament. I do not think any government should take it upon itself to declare that it has a right to do that. 
I turn to the practicalities of the situation. The Minister said that the Pipeline Authority may have to construct a pipeline in Bass Strait. I pose this question to him: How were the other pipelines that are already in existence in Bass Strait built? They were built under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act under licence from the Designated Authority which has control of the size, quality and so on of pipelines. The honourable senator has talked about time factors and said that the Authority may have to work at great speed. Surely the planning would be such that the Authority would have a reasonable amount of time, as has been the position in the case of the oil exploration companies which have reached production and have been able to construct pipelines and to obtain licences from the Designated Authority. 
I do not consider that there is any validity at all in the Minister's counter-argument on this matter. I stand by what I said earlier. I think this clause is a complete abrogation of the earlier agreement. The Government is riding roughshod over the States on a very important piece of legislation which is unique in the history of this country. I cannot support this clause. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack,  which seeks the deletion of clause 39. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether he is aware that the Adelaide Festival Theatre which was built with the support of the citizens of South Australia and of the previous Gorton government will be officially opened on Saturday night. Adelaide's Festival of Arts has become renowned, both nationally and internationally, for its high standards in the various arts and cultures. With the establishment of a cultural theatre in South Australia will the Minister ask the Government to give assistance to both Australian and overseas performers, so that they may take advantage of the new theatre, and thus give further encouragement to the performing arts in this country? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Following his recent appeal to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the proposed French nuclear tests in the Pacific, will he be making a similar appeal to the International Court of Justice against the proposed Chinese nuclear tests? If he does not intend to do so, is it because the Chinese explosion is different from the French explosion and will not affect the atmosphere or because the Australian Government is fearful of offending China? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. As the Prime Minister has indicated by clear statement that although  Mr Barbour  is the head of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation he does not appear to be in control of it, will the Attorney-General explain and justify his action in allowing what the Prime Minister considers an apparently incompetent person to remain in charge of Australia's national security organisation? 
 I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Does the Government still intend to press for a vote on the issue of the export of merino rams from Australia? If so, does it intend to place the pros and cons of the issue before woolgrowers who are eligible to vote? If so, is the Government or the Minister preparing such a document and who are its authors? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday I asked him a question about a document setting out the pros and cons of the export of merino rams from Australia. He inadvertently failed to answer that part of the question. I now ask him: Is this document being prepared? If so, who are the authors of the document? 
On the subject of capital punishment for treason we have heard a couple of examples given by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator McManus,  but one must look at what treason really means. What of the case of a man who may be a traitor to his country and could cause the loss of lives of hundreds or thousands of troops on occasions, such as those on a troop ship? This is not beyond the realms of possibility. What should happen to this person? Should we merely gaol him for 7 or 8 or 10 years, when he has taken the lives of numerous innocent victims who were prepared to give up their lives for their country? He could also place his own country at risk. These are the things that concern me. I am not one who is looking for blood in any of these cases. Rather, I am looking for a deterrent and I think one should exist because the price some people are paying for murder today is only, say 10 years imprisonment, after which they come out on the streets again free. A great deal of thought is given to them and to their souls. What of the victim? What of treason which could result in hundreds or thousand of victims, and what if it put the perpetrator's country and the people in that country at risk? These are the areas we must consider, not just one side of the picture where there are a few grey areas and particular examples. This is a very serious matter, and I support the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  because I think it is necessary. True there will be cases of treason, perhaps in a grey area, when a person could be acquitted of his crime. But when it can be clearly shown that a person has been a traitor to his country, has put his country in jeopardy and has placed the lives of many people in jeopardy, and perhaps caused the deaths of many people, then I think there ought to be no alternative to his paying the full price for his treachery. 
I would have expected  Senator Wright's  amendment to have received the support of the majority of the Committee. Although some people may be opposed to the death penalty in toto or in certain areas, I would expect the majority of people to accept the proposition that there are certain degrees of crime and murder for which the death penalty would apply. In this country, as in any democracy which places reliance upon the enforcement of law and protection of the people, officers of the law who protect the rights of the individual can be placed in dangerous situations at times. If we expect them to give protection to the community by enforcing the laws that this Parliament makes, then these officers of the law should be given the full support of the community, particularly the Parliament of this country. I would hate to see a continuation of the situation which we have seen in the past few years in which there have been challenges by so many people offered to officers of the law during protests. The officers have been magnificent in the way that they have stuck to their posts. 
We have situations in which an officer is expected to arrest an armed criminal. That criminal is armed for only one reason - that is, to make sure that he can get away if he meets any resistance along the line. If that criminal merely had an unloaded revolver, it would be a game of bluff. If that criminal has a loaded revolver and if he is prepared to. use it - he has loaded it before he has gone to the scene of the crime and before he has been detected - in my judgment, if he kills  a  police officer that is premeditated murder. 
In theory, yes, I would like to see that situation, but it could never be enforced. Leaving the revolver aside, the criminal might have a knife. Many a policeman and many an innocent victim in the street have been stabbed, not by somebody who could claim insanity because in so many instances these criminals are some of the best brains in this country, although, unfortunately, they are slanted in one direction. So, there is no excuse of insanity and there is no excuse that the crime was not a premeditated exercise. If the need arises, they will take the utmost step if taking a life in order to get away. Yet we have a situation in which some members of the Senate are prepared to say: The policeman can take all these risks. He can protect us and enforce the law. He can take all the risks and possibly get killed. If he does get killed, we must protect the murderer'. What consideration is given to the victim? It would be no pleasure for policemen to go to a particular building when they know that there is an armed bandit inside. These policemen are expected to make an arrest. They do it because it is their duty to do it. I think they are entitled to the fullest protection and support that we can possibly give them. 
We are the ones who make the laws. We in this place, as well as the people outside, are the ones who expect these officers to administer those laws and so give protection to the community. Yet .some honourable senators are prepared to go only part of the way to give support to the law enforcement officers. I find that that is somewhat hard to understand. If in a moment of heat somebody knocks down a policeman and perhaps kills him, that is an entirely different situation. It can be clarified in a court of law. Where it is clearly shown that a police officer has been killed, with a weapon which a criminal has on his person, and where this man was prepared to kill that police officer if necessary, this is premeditated. Yet we are not prepared to say that he must also pay the supreme sacrifice. Wc are placing these officers in a position in which they must be prepared to pay the supreme sacrifice in the course of their duties. If in the course of doing his duty, as  Senator Wright  said, an officer is quick enough to draw his own revolver and kill the criminal before he himself is killed, that is OK. If, unfortunately or tragically, the police officer is killed, it is a different story. As far as I am concerned, those who do not support this amendment should consider whether their attitude towards that police officer who killed the criminal before the criminal killed him should not be challenged. Is the policeman classified as a murderer because he took a life? Should he also serve a life sentance? 
The cheapness of the exercise is shown by the fact that a man can commit premeditated murder, no insanity need be claimed, he 's put in gaol, at the taxpayers' expense, for a few short years and out he comes to freedom street again. What of the policeman's widow and children? They have a lifetime in which to put up with the tragedy caused by this one man and yet that man goes out onto freedom street and goes his own way. This, to me, is not good enough. Even though some honourable senators may not agree with me, I say that a few short years in gaol is not much of a deterrent. 
Well, we have the example of the Stuart case in South Australia. A man brutally killed a little girl in Ceduna not many years ago and today he is coming out onto freedom street. 
 No, but we are talking about imprisoning someone for a few short years and then releasing him onto freedom street. The widow and the children of the victim have to carry on in their own sweet way and put up with a great tragedy in their lives. The same thing applies to a prison warder. In the course of his duty he has to enforce the law within the prison and handle criminals who are inside because they have committed murder. In an attempt to escape these same criminals can use any weapon they like and kill one of these law inforcement officers or an innocent victim out in the street. When this criminal is finally caught he goes back into gaol and serves  a  sentence. That is the only sacrifice he pays. This to me is not good enough. If we are to have laws in this country and expect officers to enforce those laws and to protect our rights and freedoms in this country the least we can do is to ensure that they have the full support they justly deserve. 
 This matter has come to my notice late this evening. I have just spoken to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  about this and I apologise because one should show courtesy and let a Minister know early in the day about a matter he intends to raise on the adjournment debate. It has just come to my notice that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has written a letter to the Premier of South Australia requesting South Australia and the River Murray Commission to slow down the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. To me this is something which must cause grave concern to al] the people of South Australia. For years quite a wrangle went on as to whether we should have the Chowilla Dam which was then proposed. There was much debate in this Senate over the issue whether we should have Chowilla Dam or Dartmouth Dam. For many reasons it was finally decided that a dam would be built at Dartmouth. But more significant was the fact that a State election was held on the issue whether South Australia would have the Chowilla Dam or the proposed and recommended Dartmouth Dam. There was a change of government in South Australia as a result of those discussions. But irrespective of the side on which people stood, whether they supported the Chowilla Dam or the Dartmouth Dam, each and every one in South Australia supported the need for greater conservation of water to supply our rather dry 
State. Because of the controversy and the politics which came into the issue we saw the construction of Dartmouth Dam delayed for quite a long time. In fact, one in fairness could say that probably 2 years were lost in the construction of a dam to supply much needed water to South Australia. 
South Australia is not one of the fortunate States with ample catchment areas, so there was a need for us to obtain further supplies of water from further up the River Murray in order to increase the amount to which we were entitled. But now we see a situation, with a change of government in Canberra, where in the Budget this week the Government proclaimed that it was going to do so many things in the fields of social welfare and education and in so many other areas. Now we find one of the many issues beneath the surface starting to reveal itself, and now cloth is going to be cut - and this is not going to be to the betterment of the country as a whole. 
Perhaps one could be accused of being parochial in bringing this issue up tonight but it is a matter of great importance to the people of South Australia. In our State we were very conscious of the fact that we had a Labor Premier who, all last year, kept saying how different things would be in our State when there was a Government in Canberra the same colour as the government in South Australia. He said: 'It will be prepared to give us the assistance and the finance which we need for our State. It will be wonderful if we have  Mr Whitlam  and his Government in power because it will be so different in future. We will not be coming home with the great disappointments we are so used to because of the attitudes of a Liberal Prime Minister and Government in Canberra.' At the last Premiers Conference - if we could refer to it as such - we saw our Premier come back extremely disappointed. In fact he was critical of the fact that he did not receive all the assistance which he would have liked. Granted he showed loyalty - and I am not saying that he did it disrespectfully - but he came home a disappointed man. 
We are now seeing the attitude of the Government in relation to the application of section 96. From now on the States are going to be told how their finances will be spent. This in itself is bad but then we go further into the Budget - I will not go into the area of brandy - and we find another disappointment, when our Premier has come out and been critical on this issue of the Dartmouth Dam. In justification of his own State and the needs of his State and having in mind the loyalties and responsibility of Government the Premier has been critical of the Whitlam Government in Canberra over this very important issue. I was amazed to learn that a Prime Minister could do such a thing as propose to the River Murray Commission and directly by letter to the Premier of South Australia that the construction of this very necessary dam for South Australia be curtailed or slowed down. If it were something which was not of great need and if there were an urgency on the part of the Federal Government that spending in the public sector should be curtailed that would be an entirely different situation. But here we have another example of double standards. The Government has proudly boasted about our Budget and what it is going to do in the fields of national development. Yet in this area of great need for South Australia the suggestion has been made by the Prime Minister to the Premier of South Australia, as I understand it, that construction of this necessary dam be slowed down. One cannot be other than critical of the Federal Government and express concern for the people of South Australia. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the proposed Googong Dam near Canberra be constructed for any other reason than beautification? Is it a fact that the first stage of the Googong Dam will cost approximately S24m? In view of the Cabinet decision to go ahead with this dam and the Government's proposal to construct it, can the Minister say that it is justified in view of the Government's proposal to defer the construction of Dartmouth Dam to which the Federal Government's annual contribution will be minimal compared with the cost of the Googong Dam? Will the Government reconsider its decision, defer the construction of the Googong 'Dam and allocate the finance saved to assist in the speeding up of the construction of Dartmouth Dam which is so vital to the welfare and the needs of South Australia? 
I again direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the South Australian Government is not in agreement with the 
Federal Government's request that the States freeze land prices for up to 10 years and so be in line with the Federal Government's proposals to stabilise land prices in Australia? The stated policy of the Australian Labor Party is that increases in land prices for houses in the Australian Capital Territory would be kept to a minimum. Can the Minister explain why land values in the Australian Capital Territory have more than doubled in the past 6 months? Does the Minister consider that these latest prices are in keeping with prices being kept to a minimum? 
 I support  Senator Jessop's  amendment. I have spoken on 2 other amendments which have been moved to this Bill and have given my utmost support to them. I do so again this evening because hijacking is becoming far more frequent than has been the case in the past. It is endangering more and more lives and one wonders where it will stop if we do not have greater deterrents for it. Internationally, we have been very fortunate so far regarding hijacks, as very few lives have been lost and no plane blown out of the sky. But where will it stop if they become far more frequent and if the penalty is merely a few years in prison? There is very little deterrent to some radical person who, for many strange reasons, suddenly decides to hijack an aircraft and goes to the extreme of destroying it. This could .result in the taking of the lives of more than hundreds of people in the case of a Jumbo jet - all innocent victims of action taken by one radical person. 
I personally would like to see the situation where there was an international agreement which provided that capital punishment was the minimum punishment as well as the maximum punishment for anybody who commits murder in hijacking an aircraft. We have seen planes destroyed, and we have also seen situations where people have been kept in an aircraft and not for only a few hours. There has been the traumatic and fearful experience in flight of wondering whether they were going to get down on to the ground again and also of being bottled up in an aircraft under adverse conditions. This has happened to young children and elderly people. Even though no lives were lost immediately as a result of these hijacks, perhaps many lives have come to a premature end because of this frightening experience. 
I believe quite frankly that this is another area where the maximum penalty should apply because unless we, as a nation, and I would hope other nations apply the maximum penalty in this area I am fearful that we will see far more hijacking and many lives lost in the future than we have seen in the past. I support  Senator Jessop's  amendment and hope that the Committee will carry it. 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that Government instructions have been given to Government departments that public servants and members of the defence forces are not to visit Taiwan? Is it also the Government's attitude that these people would be frowned upon even if they were to visit Taiwan on holidays? If these are facts is this not in line with the types of diplomatic pressures China has endeavoured to exert on other countries? How does the Government's ridiculous attitude align itself with its statement that trade with Taiwan will continue as before and will not be discouraged? Is this not another example of the Government's policies being influenced by pressures from China and the left wing of the Australian Labor Party? 
I present the following petition from 166 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rattier than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pi ay. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation whether he recalls making a statement on Dartmouth Dam during the debate on the motion that the Senate adjourn last Thursday night and saying that he would oppose any proposal that would prevent Dartmouth Dam being completed. In fairness to the Minister I will quote from page 195 of Hansard what he said on that occasion. He said: 
I know of no moves which could have the effect of preventing any such construction from continuing. 
Has the Minister now satisfied himself that a letter was sent to the South Australian Premier suggesting the deferment of Dartmouth Dam? 
If so, is he now prepared openly to oppose the proposed deferment as suggested by the Prime Minister? 
 I join with my colleagues on the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade in speaking to this report. May I say at the outset how much I appreciated  Senator Prowse  when he was  chairman  of this Committee and admired the amount of work that he put into this task. Also I must pay tribute to the new  chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wilkinson,  who has been on ' this Committee with me since its inception. 1 pay tribute to previous members of the Committee. I refer here to 2 Senators who have been mentioned today, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and  Senator Primmer  who served on the Committee for quite some time. I pay respect to them for the contribution they made in both the assimilation of the information and finally the preparation of the initial draft report that was placed before the Committee when it was reconstituted early this year. 
Over the years with the development of trade between Australia and New Zealand there have been many discussions between the 2 countries in an endeavour to obtain a better understanding and to overcome some of the trading difficulties that have developed from time to time. As  Senator Lillico  said earlier today, these  sometimes have been  due to outside circumstances and influences. It was in 1965 when finally the 2 countries got together and negotiated what was to be known as the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. It was to be a limited free trade agreement when it came into operation in January 1966 and it was suggested that it should remain in force for 10 years and continue beyond that if necessary, unless one of the partners decided to terminate the agreement by the giving of some prior notice. 
For some time some sections of the Australian industry have expressed concern on the overall effect of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, particularly on some sections of rural industry. The Senate gave a reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade concerning the promotion of trade and commerce with other countries. At this stage I must pay tribute to  Senator Lillico  who had for many years in the Senate expressed grave concern about the effect of NAFTA on many areas of Australian rural industry, particularly in relation to the pea and bean industry. He was highly critical of its effect upon those industries, lt was due to  Senator Lillico's  zeal, criticisms and strong desires because of the effects of New Zealand trade on certain sections of rural industry in Australia that the Committee decided to take as its first reference, within the ambit of its general responsibility, the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Again, I must pay tribute to  Senator Lillico  for the speech he has made in the Senate and also for the amount of work that he has put into this Committee in investigating and inquiring generally into the overall effects of NAFTA on Australian trade and industry. 1 do not intend to deal with rural industry specifically, particularly the pea and bean industry, because I feel that  Senator Lillico  has dealt with that in great depth. But I pass this comment: I feel that there is an area here where we will need closer scrutiny, as the honourable senator said today, because it is an area which I feel, to some extent, has been affected adversely by this agreement between Australia and New Zealand. One can express only concern and sympathy for his State of Tasmania which I feel has been more adversely affected in many ways under this agreement. The Committee studied the Trade Agreement and its operations in depth and took evidence from a wide range of representatives of industry and commerce involved within NAFTA. We tried to deal with this subject in depth and to get a very wide cross-section of evidence before the Committee because this is the only way in which we can operate effectively to bring down a report. 
I must say that I was very disappointed that no representative of New Zealand, with the exception of  Mr D.  O. Walker of New Zealand Forest Products Ltd was prepared to give evidence to the Committee, although the Committee did receive one lot of written evidence. I can only reiterate that I was very disappointed because we had invited witnesses to represent New Zealand on more than one occasion. The disappointing part was that the Committee was unable to pass and comment on the New Zealand attitude towards the overall operation and effectiveness of NAFTA. 
The agreement is characterised by a number of provisions designed to safeguard domestic industries. These include a restricted product coverage in Schedule A, the Schedule which lists the goods which are subject to the free trade provisions of the Agreement, procedures for dealing with injury or threatened injury to industries through the deflection of trade, which comes under article 7 of the Agreement, provision for the withdrawal of free trade obligations in order to encourage new industries and the suspension of the agreement in respect of any commodity where damage to an industry occurs or is threatened. It also provides for the maintenance of import licensing for balance of payments purposes. Other important features include the maintenance of New Zealand import licensing under certain conditions, the equalisation of British preferential tariffs and Australian rates in the New Zealand tariff, rules of origin and special arrangements made in regard to specific products. It covers quite an area containing many safeguards. At the same time, as has been stated today, the Committee found that there were quite a few anomalies within the overall agreement. 
When the Agreement came into force the great bulk of items included in Schedule A were already free of duty. The whole idea of Schedule A is to have an increase in this particular area and so obtain a greater area of free trade between Australia and New Zealand. The duties on other items in the Schedule are being phased out in accordance with a formula which requires the immediate removal of duties in oases where they were 5 per cent ad valorem or less, elimination of duties in 2 years where duties were between 5 per cent and 10 per cent and phased reduction of duties to 'free' completely in 2 year stages over a period of 8 years where the duties exceeded 10 per cent. By consent, the duty phase-out may be accelerated. I mention this to show that here again is spelt out very clearly and in definite terms the intention of Schedule A. The intention is to obtain an area of free trade wherever possible between Australia and New Zealand. 
Of course, Schedule A is naturally one of the main features of the Agreement as this deals, as I said earlier, with the free trade between the 2 countries in certain items covering a wide range of manufacturing, forest products and agricultural products. Items not under Schedule A may be added following an annual review and mutual agreement between the 2 countries. This was one area that the Committee looked at in great depth. It recommended that the period of review might be reduced from annually to a lesser time, perhaps 6 months. I am pleased to say that recently the present Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and his counterpart in New Zealand agreed to reduce this period of time to 6 months. I think it is important that we try to get down to a 6-month period. It allows for more frequent review and a greater opportunity for further inclusion of items under Schedule A which, of course, is basically what NAFTA is all about. As I said the intention of NAFTA was to establish free trade between Australia and New Zealand. One important aspect of the development of free trade under the Agreement is Article 3.7 which states: 
In relation to goods not at the time listed in Schedule A to this Agreement, the Member states may agree on and implement special measures beneficial to the trade and development of each Member state and designed to further the objectives of this Agreement. Such measures may include the remission or reduction of- duties on agreed goods or classes of goods in part or in whole. 
As the Committee states in its report, arrangements entered into under Article 3.7 usually involved an exchange of special import licences and in some cases the reduction of duties by New Zealand on Australian goods in return for duty free entry of specified New Zealand goods into Australia. Any arrangements entered into under Article 3.7 are usually on a 12-months basis with the opportunity for review and renewal by the industries concerned, with discussions quite often taking place between the businessmen concerned in the 2 countries. So there is this area of direct negotiation or discussion. Here again, I believe that there should be a reduction in the period of negotiation under Article 3.7 as we have done in regard to Schedule A of the Agreement. Of course, the concept of Article 3.7 is to give an opportunity to those sections of trade which are not on the free list of Schedule A, and would therefore be dutiable, to have some entry of their goods. The volume of trade is controlled by a special licence or an easing of the import duties in what could be described as a 'trial' to see whether the development of such imports adversely affected local industry and what is the overall national gain by such imports. Of course, with Australia this exchange usually involves completely free entry of New Zealand goods into Australia, as was emphasised so much by  Senator Lillico  in his address to the Senate earlier this afternoon. Whilst there were varying views on the effectiveness of Article 3.7, the Committee felt that it had not assisted free trade to the extent that was the intention and the hope. The Committee also felt that the development of Article 3.7 as a means of bringing in more items under the free area of Schedule A should be a matter of absolute priority because Article 3.7 is also aimed at encouraging rationalisation of production in the 2 countries to enable them to concentrate on different lines and avoid duplication for the combined market, with the aim of bringing in economies of production through increased throughputs in the various industries of the respective countries. 
The importance of this aspect of Article 3.7 was recognised by the former Ministers for Trade of both Australia and New Zealand in their discussions in May 1972 when they agreed that an urgent study should be undertaken to define more clearly the aspects of rationalisation of the procedures under Article 3.7. I am pleased to say that in March of this year  Dr J.  F. Cairns and his counterpart, the New Zealand Minister for Trade and Industry, reaffirmed the need for new intermediate arrangements which would be complementary to each other. The 2 Ministers have committed themselves to make progress in bilateral trade under NAFTA more rapid and effective. Witnesses stated to the Committee that there should be less secrecy regarding Article 3.7 proposals and arrangements generally and that, where possible, these details should be published to give a better understanding to industry and to encourage further development of trade between the 2 countries. It is pleasing to note that this matter has also been taken up by the Government. Today details of current proposals are being published. I refer to one area in which they are being published, that is, 'Overseas Trading'. 
The Committee also recommended that it should be obligatory for goods concerned in a successful Article 3.7 arrangement over a period of 12 months to be considered for inclusion in Schedule A unless special factors, such as credit for a special pioneering industry or heavy developmental investment, mitigated against this. It was felt that greater encouragement for participation under Article 3.7 which is basically, as I described earlier, the transitional period of operation between the 2 countries, would encourage all goods to be included in Schedule A. Article 3.7 is basically a half-way house - an encouragement of rationalisation, an opportunity to test markets to see what effect there will be on a counterpart in the other country and from that to develop it until it reaches the stage of open, mutual export exchange on a free trade basis. 
In evidence given to the Committee it was noted that there was no real incentive for New Zealand to approve arrangements which involved food products, for the reason that New Zealand food products generally entered Australia free and, as a result, some Australian firms had been denied the opportunity to enter into reciprocal trading arrangements with New Zealand firms in order to obtain some relief from the New Zealand import licensing. I shall not go into detail on that. I mention it again because it was a most important point which was spelt out very clearly and firmly by  Senator Lillico  today. Certain areas of the trade tend to disadvantage Australia more than other areas of the trade tend to disadvantage New Zealand. Import licensing by New Zealand has been the main bone of contention of Australian exporters for many years because, although trade may be free of any tariff, it can still be limited by its entry quota under a licence system which limits market expansion and development under the so-called free trade. This is a very important point and one on which the Committee expressed quite some concern. While it might be said that the trade is free there are still restrictions upon it because of a quota system which can still disadvantage Australian exporters. Under a licensing system, limitations on imports via licensing still operate on goods listed in Schedule A as being free of tariff. 
I must, in all fairness, say that it must be noted that since the introduction of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement New Zealand has reduced the incidence of licensing. Approximately two-thirds of all imports today are free of licensing controls. Nevertheless, there is still a very long way to go in this area. It is one thing which must be borne in mind in future discussions between the 2 governments. Little benefit is to be gained by removing a tariff from an article and then applying a licence to it because that is taking off one type of restriction and replacing it with another. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poyser)  - Order! The time for this debate having expired, the Senate will proceed to other business. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Following the weekend revaluation of the Australian dollar, I ask the Leader whether he can say what consideration will be given by the Government to compensating those export industries which are adversely affected by the revaluation. Is it not a fact that the canned fruit industry still affected by the previous revaluation will again be hard hit? Will the Government be prepared to compensate the canned fruit industry. 
-I present the following petition from 1 7 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: that the proposed 'Free' National Health Scheme is not free at all and will cost four out of five Australians more than the present scheme: that the proposed scheme is discriminatory and a further erosion of the civil liberties of Australian citizens, particularly working wives and single persons: that the proposed scheme is in fact a plan for nationalised medicine which will lead to gross waste and inefficiencies in medical services and will ultimately remove an individual 's right to choose his/her own doctor. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the government will take no measures to interfere with the existing health scheme which functions efficiently and economically. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Is leave granted? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can the Minister say what effect the Federal Government's suggestions to establish 2 more overseas car manufacturing plants in Australia, which incidentally could overcrowd the car industry, will have on the already established car industry in Australia, particularly in South Australia where there are 2 major car manufacturers already established which employ a great number of people? Is the Minister aware that if these South Australian industries are adversely affected by the establishment of more overseas car plants in Australia it could create large unemployment and greatly affect the economy of South Australia? Will the Government have discussions with the Premier of South Australia on these matters to ensure that the interests of that State are protected? 
-On 28 August last the Leader of the Government in the Senate stated that on average higher prices should not be charged for cigarettes and tobacco until early September, and for spirits until the end of September. He then went on to say- and I quote from Hansard: 
If it should come to my notice that any company is seeking to make excess profits by increasing prices before old stocks are exhausted I shall not hesitate to name that company in the Senate. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has done any checking on this matter. If so, is he aware of any instances in which increased prices were charged before old stock was exhausted, and what action does he intend to take? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I do so because of the question asked by  Senator Donald  Cameron and the answer which the Minister gave to the honourable senator in which he said that he would not be able to attend the meeting at Berri in South Australia on Friday night and that he wished he could because he would give serious consideration to the proposals put forward. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Following the overthrow of the communist Government in Chile by a recent military coup, does the Government intend to recognise the present regime which is in power in Chile or will the Government regard it as a rebel group and, as such, not recognise it? If the Australian Government adopts the latter course, does it intend raising the matter in the United Nations? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the concern in the export meat industry because of the current uncertainty in the industry created by non-confirmed Government comments on what further rate of export tax the Government may impose? Is the Minister also aware that some meat export industries, involving many specialised workers, are being placed in jeopardy because of the uncertain climate existing due to the Government not promptly clarifying the position? Will the Minister make an early statement on the matter? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to statements that the Australian Government will support sanctions against South Africa in the same way as it has supported sanctions against Rhodesia. I ask: Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that South Australian exports to South Africa amounted to $12,900,000 in 1971-72 and $2 1,945,000-odd in 1972-73. Is he also aware that the car manufacturing industry in South Australia exports a large number of vehicles to South Africaamounting to nearly half of the total vehicle exports? As the car industry and general exports to South Africa have a great impact on both employment and the general economy in South Australia, did the Prime Minister have discussions with the Premier of South Australia before the Government made such statements? What assistance will be given to that State in the event of this export trade being lost? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Are reports correct that he is opposed to any increased export tax on beef? If so, can the Minister's sensible comments be taken as fact or has the city orientated Caucus still to make up its mind? 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  stated earlier today that the definition of prices would be a matter for determination by the High Court of Australia. I would like to ask  Senator Murphy  the following question: When will these determinations be made? Could they be made before the Government goes to the people with a referendum on prices? How would this determination be made because my understanding is that there must always be provision for a challenge to the High Court? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that this year's direct contribution by the Federal Government for the continued construction of the Dartmouth Dam was Sl.lm and that the inflated cost of the Government's purchase of the Jackson Pollock painting was nearly $1.3m? If these facts are correct, why did the Prime Minister request the deferment of the Dartmouth Dam when this Government is prepared to buy a painting for a greater amount of money? Does this not clearly show that this Government places a higher priority on a painting than it does on water for a community and also show the contemptuous disregard it has for the urgent needs and rights of South Australia? Is it not a fact that this Labor centralist Government has a greater preference for a bit of dried paint on canvas than it has for the needs and welfare of the people of South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Following the Treasurer's statements in the Federal Budget Speech, can the Minister state whether subsidies on superphosphate will continue? Will he clarify the position in relation to the tax deductibility of the cost of the application of superphosphate? 
Will the cost of the application of superphosphate on developmental land still be 100 per cent deductible in the year of application as in the case of other costs of production? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Royal Australian Air Force has been cut back in strength with one Mirage squadron being demobilised? Is it not also a fact that the number of flying hours flown by RAAF pilots has been greatly curtailed? If one of the important arms of our Defence Services has been so restricted in the so-called cause of Government economy, why is it that the Federal Treasurer has been allowed an RAAF VIP aircraft to fly to Nairobi, a trip which will take some 1 6 hours flying time each way and will cost about $20,000, when he could have gone by commercial aircraft. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Some time ago I asked a question of the Minister with regard to the change in the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. I repeat my question to the Minister: What is the Government 's attitude towards export incentives? Will the present arrangements be updated to assist Australian exporters by ensuring that the changed situations do not place them at too much disadvantage? 
When the debate on this matter was adjourned we were dealing with the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. I had been discussing certain important aspects of the Agreement, which are designed to assist in the development of trade between Australia and New Zealand. In my concluding remarks on the previous occasion I had been dealing rather critically with the area of import licensing by the New Zealand Government which, in itself, had been rather restrictive, particularly upon the imports of Australian goods into New Zealand. 
The former New Zealand Government stated its intention of removing licensing over a period of 5 years and replacing it with certain tariffs. I personally was pleased to see that this was going to be done because I feel that one had to be critical of the area of licensing as it exists at the present time under NAFTA. The present New Zealand Government has now confirmed the intention that this licensing aspect will be removed over a 5-year period; that the Government will continue to use it for quite some time and gradually phase it out and replace it with tariffs. It is hoped that the policy of removing these licences will be carried out because it has disadvantaged many aspects in the development of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. But at the same time I hope that the new tariffs which will be replacing the licences will not be too restrictive and again place a prohibitive effect upon the importation of Australian goods into New Zealand. The fact that New 
Zealand has continued to operate import licensing on goods listed in Schedule A, which is the free area, has disadvantaged Australian trade. At the same time, New Zealand has been able freely to expand its trade to Australia through Schedule A duty reductions without any quantitative restriction in Australia. Some duties may apply on goods in Schedule A, but they are being progressively phased out once they are put on the Schedule. 
I emphasise that one thing has to be made very clear, that is, if NAFTA is to work and bring mutual benefits to both Australia and New Zealand by a greater expansion of trade between the 2 countries both countries must make every endeavour to assess trade on the basis of general mutual advantages and not on the basis of one country perhaps seeking an advantage over the other. I was pleased to see that on 10 September there were further discussions between Australia and New Zealand on areas of improvement within NAFTA. It has been reported that the Australian delegation of exporters expressed grave concern about the restrictions placed upon Australian exporters by import licensing. The delegation pressed for a greater emphasis on and opportunity for Article 3.7 to apply so that they could gradually expand trade in the New Zealand market. 

 Senator Lillico dealt at length, and critically, with the industry panels. 1 quote from a Press report in the 'Canberra Times' of 1 1 September of this year. The article states: 
Australian and New Zealand manufacturers have announced their agreement to set up a series of joint industry panels. 
These groups covering specific industries from carpets to car components will work together to increase overall sales in both countries. 
That statement, to me and, I am certain, to other members of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, was most heartening. There must be more discussion between the exporter and importer groups of both countries to try to get a better understanding in many of these areas, to develop trade further and not to try to develop trade so that one section is disadvantaged when compared with another section. 
I must refer again to the recent 25 per cent cut in Australian tariffs generally. Clearly this will affect Australia's trade with New Zealand because it will put New Zealand 's manufacturers in a substantially more favourable position than Australian manufacturers because Australian tariffs will be lower and New Zealand imports will be more competitive. I refer to that part of  Senator Lillico  's speech which dealt with the problems associated with peas, beans and meat, particularly the possibility of lamb, coming into Australia. New Zealand tariffs will remain at relatively high levels and domestic manufacturers will be protected. If New Zealand could be persuaded to reduce its tariffs, particularly on Australian goods, it might be feasible for the Australian Government to negotiate tariff reductions within NAFTA. By persuading New Zealand to put vastly increased numbers of products on Schedule A, which is the free area, the Australian move to reduce tariffs could be seen as an extremely worthwhile move towards freeing and expanding trade between the 2 countries. 
I refer to the motor industry as one example of the rationalisation and expansion of trade between the 2 countries. Originally, Australian manufactured cars entering New Zealand did so under the licensing system, which I mentioned earlier, and on a monetary basis. That applied both on the completely built up basis and completely knocked down and assembled in New Zealand basis. These licences were issued on an annual basis and allowed for some expansion of trade each year. Quite frankly, in real terms they allowed only a minimal increase in the entry of Australian manufactured cars into New Zealand. Because it was on a monetary basis also, it allowed for a greater number of small cars as against the bigger and more expensive cars which, naturally, used up the monetary quota more rapidly. In December 1971 New Zealand changed the method of granting import licences to a sales replacement system. This new approach to the importation of Australian manufactured cars had a marked effect upon both the availability of new cars and models and the supply and price of second hand cars in New Zealand. The drop in price of second hand cars was amazing when the scarcity aspect was removed from the market. Evidence given to the Committee shows that the waiting time for a new car dropped. Not only did Australian manufacturers and exporters benefit by this trade to New Zealand but New Zealanders benefited because it brought down the price of second hand cars and it gave a greater availability of new cars to the New Zealand public. 
I return to Article 3.7. It has been of benefit to the motor vehicle industries of both countries because motor vehicles and parts have represented more than 50 per cent of the value of Australian exports under approved Article 3.7 proposals. The use of Article 3.7 has led to a degree of rationalisation between the 2 countries within this industry or, more accurately, between firms in the industry. Admittedly, the total volume of trade on this basis has been relatively small. It remains to be seen whether it will survive and develop now that the New Zealand sales replacement system, which is the new system I mentioned, of import licensing for motor vehicles has removed much of the incentive for contra arrangements on motor vehicles and parts. One is encouraged by the fact that New Zealand is manufacturing more and more of the components used by the motor industry, and the Australian car manufacturers are using many of these components in the manufacture of vehicles. Here again there are benefits all round. 
I think it would be remiss of me not to comment on the shipping service between Australia and New Zealand. Shipping freights and services between Australia and New Zealand, to me- I have been interested in shipping services and freights for quite some time- has been an important aspect of NAFTA. No matter how close the countries might finally get to free trade freight costs and services will always play a dominant part. At present shipping services between Australia and New Zealand are provided almost entirely by the Union Steamship Co. of New Zealand, with some specialist cargoes such as timber being handled by the Australian shipping companies. Complaints were made to the Committee about the capacity and frequency of services on the Australian-New Zealand route. We had quite a bit of evidence on this aspect. I would like to quote some of it to the Senate. Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd claimed that roll-on roll-off vessels were not the most suitable for the shipping of their products to New Zealand and that, therefore, freight costs were higher than they would be for the more suitable conventional vessels which New Zealand manufacturers employed to ship similar goods to Australia. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills was concerned about the difficulties in ensuring sufficient inducement cargo to obtain direct shipments from Burnie in Tasmania to New Zealand. Other witnesses were critical of the fact that we had only a single shipping line and that freights between Australia and New Zealand were extremely high in comparison with freights to other international markets. There was also criticism of the fact that in some areas, it was clearly shown, the freight from New Zealand to Australia was at a lesser rate than the freight from Australia to New Zealand. It was claimed that this anomaly was placing some Austraiian exporters at a complete disadvantage. Some witnesses told the Committee that on some sea legs- for example, Japan and other places to Australia or Australia to Japan- the freights were proportionately cheaper than many of the freights from Australia to New Zealand. 
I hope that overall we will see a change in the system of imposing freight charges between Australia and New Zealand. The Union Steamship Co. is New Zealand based and is the only shipping company which can operate between Australia and New Zealand. On odd occasions another shipping line can take exports from Australia to New Zealand, but those occasions are not very frequent. One of the great problems has been that New Zealand wharf labourers have flatly refused to load or unload any vessel operating between Australia and New Zealand which is not a Union Steamship Co. vessel. This places great restrictions upon the use of any other vessels. 
That is right, it must have a New Zealand flag. That has been their policy all the way through. This has created grave problems. We have had examples of overseas vessels passing through Australia on their way to New Zealand which could have picked up quite a bit of cargo from- Australia and taken it to New Zealand. This would have assisted because there have been problems and delays in freighting cargo. The other aspect that shows up clearly is that because there is only a single shipping company operating on this run between Australia and New Zealand there is a monopoly situation. Of course, this is a problem that always has to be overcome. Questions were put to witnesses and suggestions were made to the effect that Australia should be looking closely into this position. The whole concept of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement is to encourage and develop trade between the 2 countries. 
Trade is expanding between the 2 countries. In this regard it is felt- I feel very strongly about this-that as trade expands there will be need for an increased tonnage of shipping to operate between Australia and New Zealand and we, as Australians, should pick up this tag and enter into the shipping run. We should not leave it to New Zealand to expand its shipping line. I am pleased to say that the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, has taken up this matter with his New Zealand counterpart. My understanding from a Press report is that the Government is now trying to get a share for the Australian National Line of the shipping trade between New Zealand and Australia. I will not say that it should be the Australian National Line that has this share. It could be some other Australian line. But I emphasise the fact that it is essential that we, as a nation expanding trade with New Zealand in both directions, should also have a ship on the run. This will give us an opportunity not only to expand our own services to New Zealand but also to have some competition in the run and to get away from the monopoly situation existing at present. As I say, I am very pleased to see that the Minister has been having discussions with his New Zealand counterpart on this aspect of trade and hope that Australia eventually will have a ship on this run. I think that this is essential. 
I have been very critical of many aspects of this Trade Agreement. I am critical of the fact that, although the Committee heard much evidence from many people covering a wide range of aspects and encouraged representatives of New Zealand industry to give evidence unfortunately, with the exception of one person it received no evidence from New Zealand representatives. I think that it was a pity. The opportunity was provided. Quite frankly, I feel that representatives of New Zealand interests should have given the Committee their view point on the Trade Agreement. Having said those things and made those criticisms, I hope in a constructive way, I consider this Trade Agreement has done quite a deal to expand trade between the 2 countries even though I feel that in some areas Australian industries have been disadvantaged. This Agreement if it can be made to work as it is intended it should work, can be of benefit to both Australia and New Zealand. I look forward to an expansion of trade between the 2 countries and a more beneficial operation of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. 
I rise to speak briefly and add my protest to that of my colleagues about this Bill and the proposed increase in postal charges. Nevertheless I must say that I am pleased to see that amendments are to be made to the proposed charges. In some areas they have been reduced, mainly because of the pressure and logic of members of the Opposition in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives. Even though some of the proposals have been reduced I still say that it is unfortunate that the Post Office has seen fit to increase charges at this time. 
I listened with interest today to what was said by  Senator McAuliffe.  I could not agree with some of the things he said. I was particularly interested in the figures he quoted about category A and category B articles and what the proposed costs will be in dollars and cents. I thought that he made a bad omission by not quoting the percentage increases because I think they are important. The percentage increase in costs is the thing which affects industry and the same thing affects any periodical or rural Press. Therefore I would like to quote the figures for the record. Referring to category A articles, from 1 October there will be a downturn of 2.86 per cent. I concede that there will be a downturn in the first year. However as at 1 March 1974 there will be an increase of 29.5 per cent, according to my figures, and as at 1 March 1975, when the proposed increases will be fully operational, the increase will be nearly 33 per cent. Anybody who suggests that an increase of 33 per cent can be passed wer lightly should re-assess the situation. He would make a different judgment. In my view 33 per * ent is an extremely big increase in costs. 
I turn now to category B articles posted for delivery elsewhere than from the post office of origin. As from 1 October this year the charge will be up by 1 9 per cent. By 1 March 1 974 it will be up by 23.8 per cent and by 1 March 1975 it will be up by 57 per cent. The increase in the charge for category B mail to be delivered from the office of posting is as follows: As at 1 October, 14.29 per cent; as at 1 March 1974, 35.7 percent; and as at 1 March 1975, 114 per cent. These certainly are big increases in charges. In looking at the increase in dollars and cents we must relate the proposed increases to what they will actually mean in real terms to the newspapers using this service. I was interested to hear  Senator McAuliffe's  comment that country newspapers should be able to afford these increased charges. 
There are numerous newspapers in this country which are not owned by the big newspaper companies and they are extremely important to the people in their area. There is nothing more important to people in the country- I am referring not to farmers in particular but io rural dwellers generally throughout the country- -than to have what they commonly call their local rag. Their local newspaper is one of the most important things that come to them at the end of each week, or whenever it is delivered, because it contains all the local news as well as other things. There are probably many honourable senators who receive country newspapers because they keep them in touch with the people in their areas or with what is happening in places where they once lived. The local newspaper is a very important part of country life and I cannot accept that they can be loaded any further than they are now. 
Together with  Senator Laucke  I had many discussions with the previous Postmaster-General,  Sir Alan  Hulme, to see whether some arrangement could be made to give further assistance to the ru'al Press because of its needs. If these charges continue to rise country people will no longer have a rural Press. One by one local newspapers are being absorbed by other newspapers. They are gradually merging and losing their old identities because of the load of costs that they face. Yet here is another impost that  th.y  have to bear. I think this is a regressive step. This Government, which talks about open government and decentralisation, is placing country newspapers in a most invidious position and a lot of them will be terribly concerned about their future. Rural dwellers also will be concerned about the future of country newspapers. 
One of the great problems we are facing in the Postmaster-General's Department- I was very pleased to hear  Senator Laucke  deal with this- is in the area of efficiency. We appreciate that the postal section of the Postmaster-General's Department is a highly labour intensive section. We are faced with great problems of increased charges in so many ways. On present indications we cannot see any alternative to there being further increased postal charges. Nothing has been done to alleviate this problem at the present time- except the metrication of the 7c stamp on the envelope of the normal letter. One wonders how long it will be before we have another increase in charges in this very important area of communication which can be done by regulation. 
I have wondered why the Post Office, under this Government or the previous Government, has not given consideration to a greater encouragement of the use of telecommunications rather than the postal services. On the one hand we have a highly labour intensive area which every year shows a loss because of its labour intensity. On the other hand we have a capital intensive area which involves a very small labour component, particularly since the introduction of subscriber trunk dialling. It is an area in which there has been profitability each year. I wonder why people have not been encouraged to use a telephone in preference to writing a letter. I hope that consideration will be given to this matter which could be done by special late hour rates. In conclusion, I only wish to reiterate that 1 support those who have protested against this increase in charges. I question why the Government was not prepared to wait until the Commission of Inquiry brought down its report. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the South Australian Government is negotiating for the establishment at Redcliffs in South Australia of a petro-chemical industry which is estimated to cost some $300m? Is the Leader of the Government also aware that this industry may be established by an overseas company? In view of the extreme opposition to the use of overseas capital, particularly in the oil and mining industries, by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, what assurance will the South Australian Government have that the Federal Government will not create any impediment to the supply of natural gas to this industry by way of the Pipeline Authority or other means if this industry is finally established by an overseas company? 
I would still like the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to tell me what was the estimate for research into brucellosis over a 3-year period. Also could he give me an estimate of the cost of meat inspection for export purposes. I was not referring to tonnages when I spoke before the suspension of the sitting. I was requesting that we be provided with the figure of the estimate because it was spelt out very clearly in the Minister's second reading speech that this estimate had been based on a 3-year term allowing for increases in exports and that a levy of 1.6c was placed against this estimate. My query was why was the figure specifically calculated at 1 .6c if the Minister did not have a specific estimate that he could put to this Committee? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen reports that mining companies in the Northern Territory are gravely concerned because no indication has been given by the Government that exploration and mining licences will be renewed this year. Is it correct that this Government does not intend to renew these licences and has the aim of nationalising or gaining control of mining companies in the Northern Territory? Will the Government make an early statement on this matter in order to clarify the situation? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Australian Government sent any wool to North Vietnam as part of the Government's aid program to that country? If it has, how much wool has been sent to North Vietnam and how was it acquired? 
Following the Minister's remarks, I should like to ask him a question concerning the following statement in the second reading speech: 
The charge ... has been calculated by dividing the estimated expenditure on export meat  insepection  over the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1976, by the estimated quantity of meat that will be exported over the 33-month period . . . 
We have a rather specific statement, with the exception that no figure is given. But the Minister, in reply to  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Webster,  stated quite emphatically that if this charge of 0.6c per lb were omitted, the Opposition would be responsible for what happened. Therefore, I assume from the Minister's statement that he must have some idea, firstly, of what he expects the export meat inspection charge will be over this 3-year period and, secondly, of what will be expended on brucellosis. Last night during the sittings of the Estimates Committee certain figures were given for the eradication of both tuberculosis and brucellosis. I ask the Minister whether he could give the Committee what his estimate is, because an estimate must have been made. Otherwise, why did we arrive at this mystical figure of 1 .6c per lb? Why was it not 1.5c or 1.7c per lb? There is a reason for this figure of 1.6c per lb. I am asking the Minister to give us that reason. In other words, can he give us the estimate of expenditure for both export meat inspection and the eradication of brucellosis. The second question I ask is: How are the funds to be allocated for the eradication of brucellosis? Does the Commonwealth intend to do this alone through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, or does it intend to do it by making an allocation to the States? How will this money be applied? 
I rise in response to the last remarks made this evening by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  He said that the Opposition would be held responsible if research into brucellosis did not continue. There is a discrepancy in the figures in 2 areas and I would like the Minister to give me some clarification if he can. This evening he gave us a break up- it took some time to get- of the total estimated expenditure of $78m. Of that sum I understood the Minister to say that over the 3-year period $21m would be for research into the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. In the Estimates for this year we find that an amount of $4.9m is being appropriated for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. If one multiplies that sum by 3 the answer is near enough to $ 15m. One would anticipate an increase in the number of cattle throughout Australia and therefore there would be an increase in the amount allocated over a 3-year period. However, there is a difference between $15 m and $2 lm. I would like the Minister to answer that query. 
Secondly, I cannot see why the Minister objects to having a trust fund. I think the industry is entitled to know that its money will be held in a responsible area. It is entitled to know exactly what money is available at any given time. That is not something that is peculiar to this industry. This would not be the only area where this practice applies. I suggest that the same should apply on this occasion. 

 - Mr President, have you seen in this morning's Press the headline: 'Snap Strike Turns Off the ABC? Did you know that some stations last night were off the air for some 30 minutes? What effect will the overtime ban by the technicians of the Australian Broadcasting Commission have on the broadcasting of the proceedings of this Parliament? 
The question which I address to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows a question I asked last week in relation to the proposed petrochemical industry at Redcliffs in South Australia. I ask the Leader: Has he seen the following statement made by the Premier of South Australia: 
The comments of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in relation to the gas reserves in South Australia are both inaccurate and misleading. 
Does the Government realise that the Premier of South Australia has been negotiating for this major industry for a long time and that this blatant dictatorial intrusion by the Federal Government could place this potential South Australian industry in jeopardy? I ask the Leader again: Will the Federal Government stop using strangler's tactics which are crippling industrial enterprise and development in this country, particularly in South Australia? 
I have a supplementary question. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Supreme Court of South Australia ruled that doctors' fees in South Australia were subject to price control under the South Australian Prices Act? As it appears that fees and wages could be affected by this decision, will the Attorney-General prepare a statement on the matter for the Senate as soon as possible? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy whether it is a fact that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is leaving for overseas at the end of this week? If so, will he request the Minister for Minerals and Energy to answer the questions on notice in relation to the proposed petro-chemical industry at Redcliffs in South Australia before he leaves this country this week, as there is an urgent need for clarification of the Federal Government's attitude on this very important matter? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is able to say what is the extent of damage as a result of stem rust affecting large areas of wheat crops in New South Wales and also South Australia and as a result of frost, particularly in South Australia. Can the Minister say what is the estimated reduction in wheat yields as a result of these adverse effects? Will the reduction in yields in any way affect Australia's commitments on wheat sales? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the big increase in mushrooms imported into Australia since the recent 25 per cent reduction in tariffs? Is he also aware that these increased imports are placing the Australian mushroom industry in jeopardy? Has the Minister heard reports that one large Australian canning factory has stopped contracts with some Australian mushroom growers, contracts that should have continued until June 1 974? Will he inquire into these reports and also give consideration to the effect of the increased imports on the Australian mushroom industry which employs a great many people? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Minister for Overseas Trade signed an agreement with China for Australian wheat sales? Is it also a fact that the Australian Wheat Board went to China and signed a formal agreement with that country on wheat sales, and that the agreement included a 3-year contract and a specific price for the first 20-odd million bushels of this year's sale? Is it correct that the prices for the remainder of this year's sale and the following 2 years are yet to be determined? Was this contract between the Australian Wheat Board and the Chinese regarded as full and final? If so, why did the Prime Minister sign another agreement with China on wheat sales? 
-I present the following petition from 567 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
) That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
A petition in identical terms was presented by  Senator Laucke. 
Petitions received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. On 23 October  I  asked him the following question: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Supreme Court of South Australia ruled that doctors' fees in South Australia were subject to price control under the South Australian Prices Act? As it appears that fees and wages could be affected by this decision, will the Attorney-General prepare a statement on the matter for the Senate as soon as possible? 
The Leader of the Government informed me that he would give consideration to this question and would inform the Senate accordingly.  I  now ask the Leader of the Government: When will he make this information available? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security whether he is aware that the current greatly inflated property values are making the present level of allowable assets for pensioners unrealistic? As this is so, will the Government consider increasing the value of allowable assets for pensioners so that these people will not be further disadvantaged by the current inflation? 
-I shall be brief. A great deal of discussion about where the parliament house should be sited has ensued. Even though we must agree that this is an issue which has gone on for many many years and which is an extremely important issue, it is not the issue under discussion at present. The issue is whether we shall have a joint meeting with the members of the House of" Representatives to decide where the new parliament house should be sited. A similar suggestion was made some years ago. On that occasion I opposed the proposal for a joint meeting and I gave the reasons why I opposed it.  Senator Cavanagh  spoke very clearly and explicitly on this issue this afternoon, and I support his remarks. Frankly, the only thing that a general meeting can do is to give an indication of thinking; that is as far as it can go. There can be nothing binding as a result of that meeting- only an expression of opinion. 

 Senator Wright's Bill is such that, being enacted according to the forms of the Parliament, we would then have a specific piece of legislation in which we could lay down prescribed areas for the grounds of parliament house and make a decision on a site of the house. This then, if agreed to by both Houses, would be regarded as an Act of Parliament and would be binding. More important than this perhaps is the fact, as some honourable senators have said in this discussion, that there has been a hedging on the subject and it has gone on for so long. But, when we have legislation before us, members of this chamber must make up their own minds as to the side of the chamber on which they will stand. They must make a firm decision or abstain from voting. An identical procedure would apply in the House of Representatives. So we have the question whether to have a specific Act of Parliament which would be binding and which would prescribe the area of the parliamentary grounds and the site of the proposed parliament house. More important than this is the fact that all parliamentarians would have to make up their minds; so there would be more than a clear indication of where the new house would be. The site would be decreed by legislation. I oppose  Senator Murphy's  motion and I support  Senator Wright's  Bill, even though I may not agree with the text of the Bill in relation to the site, when we come to discuss it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Due to the grave concern expressed by so many people regarding litterbugging in this country, will the Federal Government have discussions with the State governments in an endeavour to counter litterbugging and help to keep Australia tidy? As a first step will the Federal Government impose fines on offenders caught litterbugging in the Australian Capital Territory, as is now being done in Singapore with such effective results? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the statement made by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr D.  Dunstan, that 'The comments of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in relation to gas reserves in South Australia are both inaccurate and misleading'. 
) Is the Minister aware that the Premier of South Australia has been negotiating for a long time for the establishment of a petro-chemical industry at Redcliffs, South Australia; if so, will the intrusion of the Federal Government place this potential South Australian industry in jeopardy. 
Is the Government attempting to cripple industrial enterprise and development in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Can the Minister state if the proposed petro-chemical industry in South Australia will be permitted to export any of its production. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Does the Minister recall my asking him last week whether he was aware that the current greatly inflated property values are making the present level of allowable assets for pensions unrealistic? As this is so, will the Government consider increasing the value of allowable assets to compensate for inflated values so that many pensioners and persons applying for pensions will not be further disadvantaged by the current rate of inflation? In his answer to me previously the Minister really failed to answer this specific question. I ask him again whether the Government will give consideration to my proposal. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. On 2 previous occasionsearly in October and again this month- I asked the Attorney-General whether he was aware that the Supreme Court of South Australia had ruled that doctors fees in South Australia were subject to price control under the South Australian Prices Act. As it appears that fees and wages could be affected by this decision, will the AttorneyGeneral prepare a statement on the matter for the Senate as soon as possible? On the second occasion on which I asked this question the Minister did say that he hoped to reply the following day. I just remind him of that. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that for the last few years some 90 Aborigines from Ernabella and Hermannsburg missions and Amata and Indulkana reserves have been going to the River Murray area in South Australia to work during the fruitpicking season and have been earning between $60 and $90 per week for 8 weeks or more? Is the Minister also aware that the South Australian Community Welfare Department received a grant of $ 1 5,000 each year from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to supervise the welfare of the Aborigines during the fruit harvest? Is it a fact that this year the $ 1 5,000 grant was returned because the Community Welfare Department was not continuing its supervisory role? Is it also a fact that the Department of Labour was prepared to take over the role as long ago as last August, to make sure that the Aborigines were employed, but that it has had no reply from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? As the Minister has recently taken over the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, will he straighten out this bungling by the Department which could affect the employment of some 90 Aborigines? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Following the Government's change of policy in relation to the gold tax, will the Government give consideration to revising its taxation policies for the rural industries, including those on such matters as depreciation and the reintroduction of the investment allowance? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in response to his non-answer to  Senator Withers.  Is it a correct interpretation of the Prime Minister's statement that Australia's aspirations are being symbolised more with China than any other nation and that the Australian Government desires to have the closest identification between Australia's policies and China's policies? If not, will the Minister himself give his interpretation of what the Prime Minister meant? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy seen a statement made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that there is a shortfall of between 0.8 and 0.9 trillion feet of natural gas reserves in the Moomba-Gidgealpa field in South Australia to meet the requirements of Adelaide, Sydney and the proposed petrochemical industry at Redcliffs in South Australia? Is it also a fact that the Minister stated that a connecting pipeline between Gidgealpa and the Palm Valley field will be constructed with all expedition because of the Federal Government's estimated shortfall? On whose assessment is this estimate based? Have discussions taken place between the Minister or his Department and the Premier of South Australia on this matter? Does the Premier of South Australia agree with the Commonwealth Government's estimate? If not, why is the Government prepared to spend millions of dollars of taxpayers ' money now on a pipeline that may not be necessary for many years to come? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Following the Government's decision on the drastic and dangerous cutback in defence Services, will the further 20 per cent reduction in flying time for the Royal Australian Air Force also apply to RAAF VIP aircraft? If so, will the Prime Minister and his Ministers also apply a 20 per cent reduction in their use of VIP aircraft? 
I rise to take part in this debate. At the outset I must commend  Senator Wright  on the great indepth address which he contributed on this very important issue. It is an important issue. It has gone on from the time of Federation. The issue is where authority lies in the off-shore areas. It was not until oil was discovered in Bass Strait that suddenly there seemed to be a great and urgent need for clarification of this issue. Of course, this was due also to the fact that internationally oil was being found on so many of the continental shelves. Australia, being an island state, had great off-shore areas which were possibly full of oil. So the States and the Commonwealth got together and finally, after long discussions, came up with mirror legislation, as  Senator Wright  mentioned in his speech, even though there are many faults in it. 
One thing the States and the Commonwealth did initially was to put aside, as they said, the very important issue of where authority lay in the off-shore areas so that they could get on with the other job of making sure that both the Commonwealth and State interests were preserved. Mention also has been made of the fact that in the United States of America and Canada litigation has gone on for a great while because of challenges as to where authority lay. This was a possible reason why the decision on where authority lay was put aside. It could have taken a long time to resolve this issue in Australia. Because of the discovery of oil there was concern to get some uniformity between the States and the Commonwealth. So at that time this important issue was put aside. Eventually, as I said, the Commonwealth and the States agreed to mirror legislation which is known as the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
But some honourable senators were not particularly happy with that proposed legislation. Hence a Senate committee was established to carry out an in-depth inquiry into this matter. The Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources sat for a long time. During the course of taking evidence many eminent lawyers gave evidence to the Committee on where they considered authority over the off-shore areas lay. Even though they could not reach agreement as to where authority lay they reached agreement on one issue, and that was that the important issue of where authority lay should be resolved, that it should not be allowed to go on indefinitely as it had since Federation. 
The Committee, in its Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations, stated: 
That, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the continental shelf. 
As  Senator Wright  said earlier today, the Senate Committee did expand this point much more. The point I made is that the Committee, which had an in-depth inquiry, did come out on this point that the issue should be resolved. 
I support Part I and Part II of this Bill because I support the need to have the issue clarified and resolved. I support those Parts not because I think the Government's claim is justified that it is entitled to lay claim that all this territory should be Commonwealth territory. I do it because it will give an opportunity eventually for clarification of this important issue. I have been concerned at the Government's attitude generally because it wants to take upon itself so much control, for Canberra, and this no doubt is another example where the Government is trying to do this. The reason why I pass this critical comment is that Part III of the Bill relates to the actual claims of the off-shore areas whereby the Government wants to give everything unto itself. On a previous occasion when this Bill was put forward, we in the Opposition deferred it until the first sitting day of this session. We did not reject it. We deferred it for the specific purpose of giving the Government an opportunity to have discussions with the various States to see if it could not by co-operation rather than confrontation resolve this issue. Such discussions had taken place when the Liberal and Country parties were in government; there were quite a few meetings between the then Commonwealth Government and the various State governments. Unfortunately we did not see any discussion take place between the present Federal Government and the States. 
Perhaps more unfortunately still has been the criticism levelled against us in Opposition by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Conner)  in Saying virtually that we had rejected the Bill. This I refute, because we did not reject it.  Senator Greenwood  has stated previously, and I am stating again today, that the reason why we deferred this Bill was to give an opportunity for cooperation between States and Commonwealth. Unfortunately, the Government was not prepared to pick up the tab on this and to go ahead. So we have the farcical situation of 2 lots of Bills sitting on the notice paper. If we look at today's notice paper we find the Seas and Submerged Lands 
Bill 1973 (No. 2) sitting as No. 1 Order of the Day- and it is sitting also in No. 4 1 position. Two identical Bills on the same notice paper is, to me, a farcical situation. No doubt the Government is trying to say: 'The Opposition has rejected the Bill a second time'. I challenge it because we did not on any occasion reject the Bill a first time. On the contrary the Government itself rejected the States. That is where the rejection comes in: It rejected the States because it was not prepared to have discussions with them. 
One could go into more detail on many other aspects. However, lengthy discussion has taken place on this every important legislation today and I do not intend to do it. In giving support to Part I and Part II of this Bill I do so because of the need for clarification. In the international sphere Australia is recognised as a coastal state. The Government of that coastal state which is recognised internationally and which is involved with so many aspects- very important aspects- is the Federal Government based in Canberra, not the individual State governments. There are many reasons why clarification should be sought. We should define clearly where State authority lies and where Commonwealth authorities lies. Therefore I do support Part I and Part II of this Bill. But I am not supporting Part III which spells out the mining code- and this will be debated in the Committee stage- because in this area the Commonwealth Government shows clearly its intention and it is not interested in clarification. What it is interested in is Commonwealth control without regard to the States or the States' interests. This is a challenge that I will not accept. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that  Mr 
Whitlam 's breaking of his promise to the Premier of South Australia 'that the wine tax would be repealed and not replaced with another impost' has placed the South Australian Premier, to use his own words, in an intolerably embarrassing position? Does the Leader accept the fact that  Mr Dunstan  has been placed in an intolerably embarrassing position by the Federal Government's actions in taxing the wine and brandy industry? 
-On 6 November I asked the Minister for Primary Industry whether it was correct that  Dr Cairns  had signed an agreement with the People 's Republic of China regarding proposed wheat sales and whether it was also correct that the Australian Wheat Board had signed a contract with the Chinese on the wheat sales themselves. Further, why was it that the Prime Minister himself signed another agreement with the Chinese regarding wheat sales? If so, was this correct? 
In a few days time the Australian Labor Party will be celebrating its first birthday as the Government of this country. No doubt the Federal Labor Party will be celebrating its birthday but I doubt very much whether this nation will go along with the celebrations. More importantly, I am certain that none of the State governments will be invited to the birthday party because of the complete disregard which this Government has shown for the State governments and the States themselves. 
I heard that comment about Bob Hawke not coming. I do not know whether he will be here because I have not seen the invitation list. What we have seen in this first year of office has been the concentration in Canberra of this great monolith of centralism which has emanated from the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I might emphasise that they are the work of the Federal Labor Party.  Senator Cant  mentioned earlier that he would not agree that there are excessive powers operating from Canberra. I know that he referred to the Constitution and said that everything that had been done came within the Constitution. The State governments have been extremely concerned about the increased and excessive power, the obsession for total power, emanating from Canberra. This was borne out by the fact that representatives of the State governments, irrespective of their politicsthey included Labor governments- made a trip to London to the Privy Council. They went there because of their fears and concern about the direction in which the Federal policies of the Labor Party were heading. 
It is not unexpected that we find this big buildup of centralism in Canberra; nor is it unexpected that at the same time we should find a determined effort on the part of this Government to erode State governments and the powers of State governments with the ultimate aim of the eventual abolition or destruction of State governments throughout the Commonwealth as we know them today. I might be old fashioned but I still use the word 'Commonwealth'. I will comment again on that point later. It is not surprising that we find this obsession for the destruction of the States because  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister, has stated this on many occasions. I refer honourable senators to a seminar held in Canberra at the Australian National University as recently as November 1971 at which the subject was 'Intergovernmental Relations'. In dealing with structures  Mr Whitlam  said things which I wish to quote verbatim in order to make sure that nobody can accuse me of taking his words out of context or of omitting a word which should not be omitted. He said: 
The State boundaries arranged at Whitehall in the middle of the last century and the local government boundaries devised in the State capitals early this century have little relevance to today's needs. Ideally, our continent should have neither so few State governments nor so many local government units. 
I want to emphasise the following words: 
We should not have a federal system of overlapping parliaments and a delegated but supervised system of local government. We should have a House of Representatives for international matters and nationwide national matters, an assembly for the affairs of each of our dozen largest cities and regional assemblies for the few score areas of rural production and resource development outside those cities. 
Two very significant points come from that statement by  Mr Whitlam.  The first is that he stated that he would abolish the federal system as we now know it and do away with State parliaments. The second is his reference to Canberra and the Federal sphere. He said that we should have a House of Representatives. He made no mention of the Senate. If there is one thing that this Government would like to do it is to abolish the Senate. I pose the question: Why? It is not purely to get away from a bicameral or 2 -house system; it is to get away from the 2 Houses of Federal Parliament and to have a single House or unitary system in Canberra. If the Government were able to do this, it would place itself in the glorious position of being able to dictate completely to the rest of Australia its policies and its desires. 
The one safeguard which this nation has at present and which stands between the Federal Government and its radical policies by which it wishes to get full power and control unto itself in Canberra- the ohe bastion which stands between those desires and which protects the interests of the people- is the Senate. I can understand why the Labor Party wishes to abolish the Senate. When I say that it is the Labor Party's desire to abolish the Senate I am not using light words, because the abolition of the Senate is Labor Party policy. This policy was declared at the Launceston Conference. I heard no report, nor can I find any report, from the recent conference at Surfer's Paradise regarding this matter. I question the reason. I can assume only that it was not discussed for the simple reason that the previous policy in favour of the abolition of the Senate would have been carried, and this would have made headlines in the Press. As I understand the policy of the ALP today, it is still for the abolition of the Senate. 

 Senator Cant said that the Government had worked within the Constitution in all that it had done. Nobody on the Government side has denied the Government's centralist policies or centralist desire to have all power unto itself. It was stated that the Government had not abused the Constitution in any way at all and that anything it had done in relation to excessive power had been done constitutionally. I will not argue with that statement, but I say that the Government has abused the operation of section 96 of the Australian Constitution. The fathers of Federation, in their wisdom, included section 96 in the Constitution to give assistance to the smaller and less affluent States- to give grants for specific purposes. Section 96 states:   the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
In other words, section 96 enables a government to make a grant to a State for a specific purpose, but in the process of making that grant it can also say how that money is to be spent. Earlier I said that I doubted whether the Premiers, whether they are Labor or non-Labor Premiers, would be in Canberra for the birthday party later this week. I also fear that the Premiers will not be coming back to Canberra under the old system of a Premiers Conference chaired by the Prime Minister. No doubt they will not be invited, for the prime reason that this Government will in future make available to the States as much money as it possibly can by way of section 96 grants which will be on such terms and conditions as this Government thinks fit. 
If this is not centralism being carried out to the maximum, I do not know what is. This is a complete power and direction from Canberra to the State Parliaments, and it affects each citizen of this country. Extreme centralism in itself is a frightening thing because it creates a situation in which bureaucracy can run rife and it finishes up with a situation in which government gets too far away from the people. We have seen the result in other countries when government has got too far away from the people. The people in the country suffer. I remind the Government that what government should be all about is government for the people. The most important thing in any country is the individual. He makes up his country. It is not the physical environment which makes a country great; it is the people within that environment who make it great. Unfortunately, the Government tends to go too far in the direction of its policies which, at times, can have a very adverse effect on the individual, his rights and personal freedoms. 
I refer to the Government's complete disregard for the States. I refer particularly to what has happened in my home State of South Australia. In recent times there have been 2 examples of how this Government has seen fit to ride completely roughshod over the desires, needs, responsibilities and commitments of the State Government. It is not a case of the State Government being of a different political colour, because the South Australian State Government is also a Labor Government. Recently, in the last few weeks, concern has been expressed about the brandy tax. Last year during the Federal election campaign the Premier of South Australia campaigned for the Federal Labor Party to win office in Canberra. Not only  Mr Dunstan  but ALP senators and members of the House of Representatives, including one who is a Minister today,  Mr Grassby,  went to the irrigation areas and the wine areas.  Mr Dunstan  stamped up and down the vineyards and other places saying: This is what we will do. This is what we guarantee'. The Prime Minister authorised  Mr Dunstan  to say that Labor would abolish the wine tax. What has happened now? That promise has been completely dishonoured. In place of the wine tax the Labor Party has imposed a further tax upon the wine and brandy industry. Do not take my word for this. I quote very briefly reported comments of the Premier of South Australia who was so concerned about this matter that he went to Press very heavily on it last weekend. He said: 
I have been placed in a position no politican should be placed in by his colleagues. I resent that position. 
A political promise made by a Party going into office should be kept. 
It was  Mr Whitlam  who authorised the statement I made to the wine industry. 
I would have thought that in any regard for me personally, apart from anyone else, he would have honoured the promise I made on his behalf and at his behest. 
I emphasise those words 'at his behest'. 
The other issue to which I refer is the issue of Dartmouth. The 5 South Australian LiberalCountry Party senators one evening heard about a letter which had been sent by the Prime Minister to the Premier of South Australia and which requested that the construction of Dartmouth be deferred and spoke on it on the adjournment. It was a request to defer a dam which is urgently needed in South Australia. One of the great problems which is preventing the expansion of South Australia is the shortage of water. A lot of time had been lost already with regard to the construction of the dam. Yet the Prime Minister, with all the millions that the Government is spending in so many ways, requested that the States defer further construction for the time being. It would have saved the Federal Government something in the vicinity of a paltry $ 1 . 1 m. At the same time this Government had representatives in the United States of America negotiating the purchase of a painting which has committed the Government to an expenditure of $ 1.3m, plus commission of $100,000, plus the cost of insurance, transport and everything else. No doubt by the time the painting reaches this country the cost will probably be around $2m. This Government was more concerned with a bit of dried paint on canvas than it was with the needs and welfare of the people of South Australia. It is a clear example of the way in which a centralist government has its priorities completely mixed up. It overlooks what should be the No. 1 priority of any government, namely, the people in the community. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that over the last 3 years, in South Australia alone, primary producers have expended some $32m on the use of superphosphate which, without the bounty, would have cost them an extra $ 1 8m? Is the Minister aware and is it a fact that the price of sulphur could rise by as much as 50 per cent next year and the price of phosphate rock by between 30 per cent and 40 per cent? In view of already increased costs in the phosphate industry, such as for labour and the effects of the removal of the investment allowance, coupled with the expectation of other increased costs, will the Minister give consideration to increasing the superphosphate bounty and so assist the primary producer to counter increased costs in this very important item of his production? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is it a fact that postal rates to Papua New Guinea have been increased from 7c to 10c a letter due to the fact that the PostmasterGeneral has now classified Papua New Guinea as a foreign country? Why has such a decision been taken at this time? Is it correct also that the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs in Papua New Guinea has announced similar increases on mail addressed to Australia to stay in line with the Australian policy? 
-I rise to make some comments on telegrams that were sent to South Australian senators by  Mr Des  Corcoran, the Acting Premier of South Australia. The telegram was quoted yesterday afternoon by a South Australian Government senator and this morning by you,  Mr President.  I refer to this because the telegram levels criticism at Opposition senators, particularly those from South Australia. The claim has been made by  Mr Corcoran  that action taken by Opposition senators in this chamber is placing the development of the Redcliffs petrochemical industry in jeopardy. I refute that statement and I think that had  Mr Corcoran  done his homework he would realise the facts. Quite frankly, I am of the opinion that he has done nothing other than to try to involve and incriminate South Australian members of the Opposition, purely as a cheap political trick. He has done this because the State of South Australia has been deeply concerned for a long time that this complex may not be built at Redcliffs because of the actions of the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  The statment can be backed by the action that was taken in the South Australian House of Assembly on 1 6 October this year when the following motion was moved: 
. that this House express deep concern at the actions of the Commonwealth Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in relation to the proposed Redcliffs petrochemical development, and urge the Government to take all possible steps to resolve the present threat to its establishment. 
Only twice in the history of South Australia has such a resolution been carried by all members in the South Australian House of Assembly. They voted unanimously against the Federal Government. I emphasise that this motion was voted for by members of the Labor Party Government of South Australia in the House of Assembly and that they virtually expressed a vote of censure upon the actions of  Mr Connor. 
I can understand why the telegrams were sent to honourable senators and why criticism has been levelled at us. The telegrams were sent to cover up and take the heat off South Australian Government senators because of the many things that have taken place in South Australia recently. The Redcliffs proposal, which I could talk about in far greater detail, is one such matter which concerns senators from both sides of the House and all people in the State of South Australia. Dartmouth Dam, to which I referred yesterday, is another issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of the Government wrote to the Premier of South Australia requesting that the construction of Dartmouth Dam be deferred so that the Commonwealth involvement in the project at a cost amounting to $l.lm could be saved. Yet at the same time we find that the Government negotiated the purchase of the Blue Poles' painting which will cost probably $2m before it arrives in Australia. One involves paint and canvas and the other involves water and the dire needs of the people of South Australia. Labor senators from South Australia were heavily criticised by all sections of the South Australian community over the action to defer construction of the dam. But this was action taken by the Prime Minister- not by them. Nevertheless, the Labor Party senators received the blame. 
Another issue is the tax on brandy which has created great embarrassment for Labor senators from South Australia. I can see the reason why this unjust, illfounded and completely incorrect criticism has been levelled upon Opposition senators from South Australia. The latest report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation shows that the total capital and reserves of the Corporation amount to $52.5m. The AIDC has the ability to borrow up to S times this amount less what is already gone in borrowings. So one can assume that there are sufficient funds and an ability to raise the funds within the AIDC so that this body can maintain its interest in the proposed petrochemistry industry at Redcliffs. The stated figure of the involvement of the AIDC- and I am quoting now from figures given in South Australia- stands at some $45 m. As I have said, 5 times that amount could be raised if necessary. 
We find that last week on 23 November  Dr J.  F. Cairns made a statement to a reporter from the 'Australian Financial Review'. The article which appeared in that publication stated: 
In an interview with "The Australian Financial Review'  Dr Cairns  said that the AIDC would not be allowed to go short of funds for necessary projects simply because of Senate failure to pass its new, expanded charter, and legislation establishing a national investment fund. 

 Dr Cairns said he believed the AIDC would be permitted to borrow abroad without having to meet the 33.3 per cent deposit requirements- 
And I emphasise this part of it: and would be given access in the Australian capital market- in order to continue with projects the Government thought necessary. 
Again, I should like to quote from House of Representatives Hansard of 28 November, at page 3993, where  Dr J.  F. Cairns, referring to the AIDC, said: 
It has scope to draw money from the Treasury for ordinary lending operations. It has kept that scope fairly distinct and we wanted to do this in the legislation. We wanted to say, in effect, that if we are going to use Treasury money we want to put the matter specifically to the House to get the agreement of the House. 
In other words,  Dr Cairns  is saying that there is another source of finance if necessary. Again, with regard to the deferment of this legislation and its reference to a committee,  Dr Cairns  said: 
I say to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that I am prepared to agree to the Senate referring this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
He had no criticism; he accepted the idea that it be referred. He did not disagree with the suggestion that it be referred to a Senate select committee. 
There are 3 reasons why criticism is completely ill-founded. Firstly, the AIDC has the ability to borrow more funds; secondly,  Dr Cairns  has said that further sources of supply can be obtained with the permission of both Houses of Parliament; and, thirdly,  Dr Cairns  has agreed to the referral of this proposed legislation to a Senate committee. I say again very critically that I am concerned and disappointed at the scurrilous attack that  Mr Corcoran  and members of his Party in South Australia have levelled at Opposition members of this Senate, particularly those from South Australia. What he has said is completely untrue and unfounded, and is being used for cheap political gain. 
-I present the following petition from 50 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware that early in October I placed many questions on the notice paper, all of which have been answered with the exception of one. I ask whether the Minister is aware of that question in which I asked: 
Will the Government have any control over the already established Moomba-Gidgealpa pipeline in South Australia. Will the Federal Government construct the feeder pipeline to the proposed petro-chemical plant at Redcliffs, South Australia. Will the Government have control over the feeder line. 
Will the Minister endeavour to obtain an answer for me as soon as possible, because the other place will rise soon for the summer recess, or will we in South Australia have to wait during the recess period in a condition of great concern, wondering whether the Federal Government will try to take over the pipeline, including the feeder pipeline in South Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government have any control over the already established Moomba-Gidgealpa pipeline in South Australia. 
Will the Federal Government construct the feeder pipeline to the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliffs, South Australia. 
Will the Government have control over the feeder line. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. I ask: Can the Minister state how many days or weeks the current rocket firing program will continue at Woomera in South Australia? Is the Minister aware of the high fire risk to large areas of the country over which rockets are fired due to the well above average growth induced by the favourable season in this area? What steps are being taken to reduce or avoid the fire risk? Will the Minister or his Department have discussions with the respective property owners concerned regarding the current rocket firing program and the associated fire risk? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that no South Australian has ever been appointed to the High Court? Does the Attorney-General agree that South Australia has people of outstanding ability in the legal profession? As there is currently a vacancy on the High Court bench, will he give serious consideration to the appointment of a South Australian to the High Court? I appreciate that this comment has been passed previously in another area. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is he aware that it is impossible to dial emergency numbers on the red telephones, that is, those telephones placed in stores, cafes, hotels, etc., without the use of coins, unlike public telephones installed in normal telephone boxes? Is the Minister also aware that after all other instructions on these phones it states in very small print: 'For emergency service- and all other calls- see the proprietor'? Does the Minister know that some proprietors are not aware of what is required to make emergency calls on these telephones? As these calls are made in times of crisis and with a need to avoid delay, will the Minister take steps to have red phones altered so that emergency calls can be made without the use of coins? Can instructions be spelt out clearly in a prominent position to avoid confusion and delay in making such calls, the lack of which has, on some occasions, caused great distress to many people in such a situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister seen reports in the Adelaide 'News' that a  Mrs Helene  Theologos, of Victoria, is trying, apparently without success, to have her son returned to Australia? What inquiries has the Minister made regarding the welfare of the son and about the mother's request for him to be returned to Australia? Will the Minister take all possible steps to clarify the position as soon as possible? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Supply recall my asking him a question last week on the dangers of fires from the current rocket firing program at Woomera rocket range in South Australia? Has the Minister seen reports that a large fire destroyed several square miles of stock feed in the area last Thursday as a result of rockets being fired in the area? Is it a fact that the fire was discovered late on Thursday afternoon? Can the Minister say what time a rocket launching was made on that day and whether investigations showed that the fire was started by a rocket? Will the Minister take urgent steps to arrange for discussions to take place between those concerned with the rocket firing program and pastoralists in the area to alleviate the potential fire risk which could, under certain circumstances, cause great damage and a loss of production over a large area this year? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is correct that the extra leave granted by the Government to Commonwealth public servants will cost $27m this year. If this is so, why is the Government prepared to give an extra $2 7m for holidays to its public servants when it is not prepared to give an extra $5m for the education of children in this country? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  on a British television program, supported the use of violence in the overthrow of the South African and Rhodesian governments? Is the Prime Minister's statement Government policy? Is this shocking support of violence one reason why the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, and the Government are still patting North Vietnam on the back while it continues illegally to wage war on South Vietnam when there has been a peace agreement? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Does he know who unloaded the pistol used by  Mr McLeod  in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last Thursday? If so, who was that person? 
-Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall that I warned him last year that the cost of rock phosphate could rise by as much as 30 to 40 per cent and the cost of sulphuric acid by 50 per cent resulting in a big increase of many dollars per tonne in the price of superphosphate? Is the Minister aware that these increased costs, coupled with the abolition of the superphosphate bounty, will greatly increase costs to rural producers, adversely affecting productivity and also increasing the price of bread and meats to the Australian housewife? Because so many people in the community will be affected, will the Government make a statement on the level of subsidy on superphosphate as soon as it possibly can? 
I present the following petition from 163 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms from 24 citizens and 48 citizens of the Commonwealth were presented by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator McLaren  respectively. 
Petitions received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs as a result of an answer he gave to a question asked by  Senator Greenwood.  Did the Minister ascertain last Thursday night how his departmental head knew that the pistol was loaded? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that not one child care centre has been established or even commenced in South Australia in the last 15 months, although many applications have been received? Is it also a fact that approval in principle only has been given to some of the applications which have been continually held up due to minor technicalities, resulting in as many as 4 sketch drafts being submitted without success? Is not the reason for this disturbing delay a conflict of opinion between 2 Ministers and their departments? Will the Minister treat this situation as most urgent and overcome these wrangles so that the Government can meet its obligations in this very important area of social welfare? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, following the comments made by the Minister for Labour over the weekend. Is it a fact that no real identification is required when claims are made for unemployment benefit? Is the Minister aware that some people are claiming on up to three applications for unemployment benefit? Will the Minister introduce a system whereby a birth certificate will be required for identification before any claim is received or compensation paid, so putting a check on this practice, stopping these people from bludging on the community, particularly on the working man, and offending the genuinely unemployed? 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall saying last week in a statement that there ought to be one Australian police force with appropriate divisions and appropriate commissioners? Will the Minister explain what he meant? Does this include all police forces in Australia? 
At first glance the Bill in some ways looks quite good. It states in the heading.To alter the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to borrow money for, and to grant financial assistance to, local government bodies'. One gains the immediate impression that the Commonwealth Government is merely interested in giving more financial assistance to local government bodies. That is not the case. On looking deeply into the Bill one finds what it is really all about. I am greatly concerned to discover on going into the Bill in depth that its real purpose is to obtain more power and control for Canberra. Further, it seeks completely to bypass State authorities. Eventually this would cause erosion of the authority of the State bodies. That is no idle statement. We have seen continually that through a centralist approach to legislation this Government is trying to erode the power of the States and their authorities and to take more power unto itself in Canberra. This is another shining example of this. We have seen it in the areas of the misuse and abuse of section 96. It has been spelt out very clearly this afternoon by  Senator Greenwood  and I shall mention it again a little later. This Bill is another Bill under which section 96 can be used but not in the way in which the fathers of federation intended it to be used. 
Tonight we have heard an honourable senator from the Government side say that local governments need more money and that the Commonwealth is prepared to give them more money. He said that the reason for this legislation is to enable the Government to have the ability to give more money to local government. It is very interesting to hear Government senators say that. But when we realise that the Prime Minister has stated in clear terms that the Commonwealth now has the power to make grants to local governments, but via the States, one questions why this legislation is necessary. Why is it necessary to put a referendum proposal to the people? I repeat that it is purely because the Commonwealth wants more power unto itself. It is reaching a stage where it is getting power hungry. It just wants power. 
I agree that local government needs more finance. None of us disputes that. But why is it necessary to do this in the way in which this Government proposes it should be done? If the Government is genuine in its desire to give more money to local governments then it could do that under the system which already exists within the Constitution. All this Government has to do is to make more money available to the States. They in turn can allocate this money to the various local governments in their States. To me this is very important, because one of the great problems we are facing in this country is the continual development of a centralised bureaucracy in Canberra. It is a Canberra orientated bureaucracy. The people who know their problems best are the local people. The State Government is much closer to local government than a Canberra bureaucracy can ever be. So this is in itself a great danger. But this Government does not see the situation that way. One can look to so many other pieces of legislation in which it is a case of power, power, power and centralism. We have seen the build-up of the Public Service in the last 12 months. We have seen the allocation in the Budget for increased Government expenditure. What is this for? I suggest it is for one basic reason only, and that is to centralise as much of the power as the Government possibly can in this place. Centralisation of power can mean only one thing, and that is erosion of authority of the States. 
Last December we saw the results of a referendum. I am certain that again the people will be wise enough when these referenda are put to them in May. Today people are becoming very concerned because of the policies of this Government, particularly in relation to centralism, because of the erosion of the powers of the States, and because of Government expenditure and the automatic wastage of revenue when Parkinson's law really applies in the monolithic growth of the Public Service. This is what is happening. One can look at what used to be an annual event- the Premiers Conference. What has happened to the Premiers Conferences today? Where are Premiers Conferences? Basically they are a thing of the past. One might ask why. Is it because the Premiers do not want to come any more, or is it because they are not wanted in Canberra any more? 
Thank you very much, senator. There is the criticism already. What is happening in this country today is not a spirit of co-operative federalism, compromise and team spirit between Premiers and the Commonwealth, but something that is becoming a directorship. I repeat that there is a complete abuse and misuse of section 96. For the sake of the record I repeat what section 96 is all about. It states: 
During a period of 10 years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions- 
I suggest that honourable senators take note of those words 'on such terms and conditions' -  as the Parliament thinks fit. 
In other words, under section 96 of the Constitution the Federal Government, when it makes a grant, has not only the power to say what money will be allocated but also how that money will be spent. When the Constitution was written and when section 96 was put in it was never intended to be used in this way. Section 96 was included in the Constitution purely to help the development of this country and to help the poorer and less populated States with specific grants. But today we see it used as a vehicle of direction and control from Canberra. What will be the situation if the Government gets its way and we have a section 96A? What would be the position then for local government? The proposed new section still states: 'on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit.' So when we start talking about being very generous and giving more grants to local government, let us spell this out clearly and say what goes with those grants? We have the situation whereby the Government can say, firstly, yea or nay and how much. Secondly we have the situation where the Government has the constitutional power to say to any local government or, as they are now called regions, how it will spend that money. Tonight an honourable senator on the Government side said: 'You know, local government might want to spend the money on a swimming pool whereas it should be spent on a road'. He admitted that the Federal Government would have the power- - more than the power- and would take advantage of this power and use it in this way. I challenge any Government based in Canberra to know the local problems as well as the local people. For the life of me I cannot see why any Government should want this power unto itself when it can already make all the necessary finance available to local governments through the States. But the Federal Government does not want it this way. It does not want the authority localised; it wants it centralised. I cannot see a local councillor being satisified with some bureaucrat and Government direction from Canberra telling him how the money is to be spent in his local shire because the Government thinks it knows conditions better than the local boy. We have situations where a local government or shire might want to build a new library somewhere but Canberra says no, that there is a priority somewhere else. 
Canberra can do that and the Minister should not say that it cannot. It has been done. Let us not start on other things such as Canberra controlling the pipeline authority. We have seen how far the Government will go with its legislation, and that is to the extreme. 
-Section 96A will give the Government all the power it needs and the Minister knows it. It is spelt out. It states: 'on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit.' That is all the power the Government needs. It can do it and it would do it. 
Yes. Give local government the money now via the State parliaments. 
We have a system and the Prime Minister admits that it can be done that way. But he does not want it that way because the Government wants the power unto itself in Canberra. To me this is a very retrograde step because it will mean a directorship from Canberra. I say again that it will be the complete abrogation or the beginning of the abrogation and erosion of not only State powers but also local government powers. We will reach a situation in which local government and local government councillors will become not much more than puppets for the Canberra- based government. This is what will happen because local government will have to jump when Canberra calls the tune as Canberra will control not only finance for local government but the direction in which this finance will be allocated and spent. The Commonwealth Government will have this power. In such a situation local government would lose its old identity and would virtually become the puppet of a Canberra directorship. If the Government is genuine when it says that the Constitution needs to be altered- as one Government senator said the Constitution is 73 years old and it needs to be brought up to date- we do not disagree with that. An Australian Constitutional Convention has been operating and holding discussions for more than 12 months. But what is happening about the work of this Convention? The Convention which seeks to review and revise the Constitution is attended by representatives of every political party in every State parliament and the Commonwealth Parliament, and local government representation from every State of this Commonwealth. 
Local government and the allocation and redistribution of finance are two of the issues that are being discussed by that body. But this government will not wait for the outcome of that Convention. It does not believe in the democratic process of sitting down to discuss, review and revise. The Government wants to force legislation through this House to establish its own bureaucracy in its centralised headquarters in Canberra. Why, if the Government is genuine, does it not wait until the Convention presents its findings? What is the purpose of the Convention if the Government is not prepared to wait for its findings? A lot of wise and sincere people throughout Australia have been wasting a lot of time and finance if the Government completely ignores what is taking place at that Convention. When Government supporters rise in this place and try to drool words of sincerity I cannot accept this action on two counts. Firstly, the Prime Minister has made an open admission- it is in the Hansard recordthat today Canberra has the power to increase financial grants to local government via the States. Secondly, I cannot accept the Government's sincerity because the Australian Constitutional Convention has not, as yet, reached any conclusions on local government. The Government is not prepared to act on the power that it has already and it is not prepared to wait for the results of the Convention. One can only reach one conclusion which I repeat: The Government is power hungry. That is what this legislation is all about. I can only say to the people of this country that we have had a 3-tier system of government involving local government, State governments and the Federal Government. This sort of legislation, if it were carried through to the ultimate and the power was situated in Canberra, would completely destroy the 3-tier system of government. We would finish up with a single Parliament in Canberra, with the destruction of the State parliaments, and we would have puppeteers and not councillors in local government areas. 
-Does the Minister representing the Postmaster-General recall my asking him a question last year about whether red telephones could be altered so that emergency calls could be made without the use of coins and so avoid the confusion and concern which so often happens when red telephones are used on such occasions? Has the Minister made inquiries? If so, what are the results of such inquiries? If not, why have they not been made? 
-Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall saying in answer to a question on meat prices last Wednesday: 
From the report- 
That is, the report from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics-  it appears that the main reason- for high meat prices- was that the profit margin at the retail level was being maintained at a fairly high point. Mainly for that reason no reduction in the retail price was taking place. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Has the Minister seen reports that the Australian Government is to pay half the cost of a world tour by an Australian Rules football team? Is this correct? Is the Minister aware that rowing crews chosen to represent their States, including the Kings Cup crew of South Australia, pay nearly all their own expenses for competing in the Australian championships? Is the Minister also aware that many in the South Australian Kings Cup crew this year are students, including some working students who have to forfeit pay as well as to incur costs to compete for their State? As the Government has stated that it is willing to give financial assistance to an overseas tour for an Australian team, will the Minister also give financial assistance to rowing crews chosen to represent their State, as well as other sporting bodies that need financial support for such competition? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Does he recall my asking questions last year regarding the construction of a feeder gas pipeline for the proposed petro-chemical plant at Redcliffs in South Australia and, in particular, whether the Federal Government would have control over the feeder pipeline? I also ask the Minister whether he recalls that in answer it was stated: 
The matter of a feeder pipeline is the subject of representations by the South Australian Government and negotiations are proceeding. 
I now ask the Minister: Are negotiations completed? Will the Federal Government have control of the feeder pipeline? If negotiations are still not completed, is the Federal Government trying to get control of the feeder pipeline? Finally, can I have an early answer? 
-I listened with interest to  Senator Keeffe  both prior to and since the suspension of the sitting this evening. He more than criticised the oil companies in this country which have invested a great amount of risk capital and used their expertise to try to find oil; he doubly condemned them. I wish to make it clear that the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources, which sat for a long time, took a lot of in-depth evidence including evidence from many people in the community, including political leaders. In Western Australia the recent Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  said that he supported the policy on the issue of permits in that State. The reason he gave for his support was that encouragement had to be given to companies to invest high risk capital in such areas. Tonight he has been criticised by  Senator Keeffe  for adopting such a policy and such an attitude.  Senator Keeffe  also said, with his accusations of irresponsibility and greed and many other adjectives which were used in relation to overseas oil companies, that if they see something else which is attractive they go there. This is true. This has happened. These oil companies are going elsewhere today. They are going where they know they will have some security, which they do not have in this country at present. The position in relation to the northwest shelf is that one company has expended multi-millions of dollars. One well in itself in the past has cost between $3m and $5m, hit or miss. 
I have none. I suggest, through you,  Mr President,  that  Senator Keeffe  should act like his colleagues act. If he wants to hit politically, by all means hit politically, but keep it above the belt. He embarrasses his colleagues. These companies have expended a lot of money. At the moment they have found something.  Mr Connor  has stepped in. Today he has more or less laid claim to the asset that those companies have gained because they have been prepared to spend multi-millions of dollars to find it. This type of asset is not an asset until it is found. 
What is the position in Australia today? This afternoon  Senator Carrick  gave some most interesting figures on oil exploration in this country. In the last 1 5 months, or in the last 1 2 months in particular, we have seen a great downturn in oil exploration in Australia. This country is recognised as having one of the biggest off-shore areas of any continent. It has already proved its potential because of the finds in Bass Strait, on the north-west shelf and also the gas deposits in the north. In the past this country gave encouragement and incentive to oil companies in so many ways to explore and so gave assistance in the saving of overseas expenditure and in the obtaining of some independence with regard to our energy needs. Yet in the last 15 months one man has changed the whole situation. One man and his Government are responsible today, at a time when we should be doing all that we can to encourage oil exploration because of the energy crisis, for so many companies are turning away from Australia and going elsewhere. 
You can name any company you like. I name one. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, an Australian company, has gone overseas and today it is exploring for oil internationally. So many overseas companies have done the same thing because they have been both accused and abused by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Nobody will accept that- not an individual or a particular company. Those companies will seek security. Today, instead of finding more oil, we are in a delicate situation. We were sitting at about 70 per cent self sufficiency with reserves which should have lasted some 10 years. Oil wells are a depleting asset, the same as in any mining industry. With the depletion of oil wells, we will finish up having to make far greater imports of crude oil into this country than we would have. 
One other aspect which is important and which is so often overlooked is the fact that so far we have found oil of only a certain specific gravity. Even if we had all our requirements of oil of this specific gravity, we would still not be independent because, as yet, we have not found any of the heavier crudes which we must have if only for the bituminous products which are so vital for our roads and which assist in transportation and in the development of greater efficiencies in the area of transport. Let us cast aside this idea of Australia being self sufficient and that we have enough for the next so many years even if we do not find any more oil in this country, because, firstly, we do not have the type of crude oil which will cover all our needs and, secondly, we have a depleting asset. The  Chairman  and Managing Director of Esso,  Mr Kruizenga,  said: 
Failure to discover more Australian oil fields would lead to rapid import increases costing the nation more than $2,000m annually in foreign exchange by the mid 1980s. 
That is not far off. He also said: 
Australia's oil potential has certainly not been fully explored and if exploration acreage is available and explorers see economic incentives for undertaking the risks . . . 
I repeat: 
. explorers sec economic incentives for undertaking the risks, some new discoveries should be forthcoming. 
I think that is a very important statement from a man in a position to know. It also bears out very clearly that these companies will not invest high capital and have any asset which they might find taken from them, when they can spend the same amount in another off-shore area- there are plenty of other off-shore areas- and be given the opportunity of having a share basis in anything they might find. In other words, they will get a reward for the risks they have taken, whereas in this country all they are getting at present is abuse and confusion from the Minister for Minerals and Energy, backed by the Government. 
When it comes to the concern with regard to our resources policy, which we do not have at present, one could refer to a statement made by  Sir John  Crawford, a great Australian, who is known not only as a great Australian but as a very able Australian- a leader, and a brilliant economist. Today  Sir John  is a senior adviser to the World Bank. This is no mean position to hold. I repeat that he is a great and very much a true Australian who has concern for his country. He said that Australia was in danger of defeating its own interests by pretending that it could develop its minerals completely without the assistance of capital or technical knowledge from abroad. How true that is. 
In all probability oil would never have been found in the off-shore areas of this country for a long time if it had not been for 2 things- overseas capital and overseas technical advice and assistance. Without this assistance we would still be looking for oil or perhaps hoping that we had oil in Australia. Nobody can accuse any oil company of not playing its part in educating Australians to move into the areas of expertise because this they have done. If any member of the Government challenges that statement I ask him to read the chapter in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources where it deals specificially with this matter, the Committee having taken evidence in depth in this area. We came out commending companies for their contribution in educating our Australian people in the fields of exploration and the techniques for the recovery of hydrocarbons in this country. One thing which has concerned me right through is the general policy and attitude of this Government, which is socialistic and very much hell bent on nationalising every industry it possibly can. 
Is it any wonder that companies are turning away from Australia in the areas of high risk? Oil exploration is high risk. If you hit oil it is good, but if you do not hit it you have lost many millions of dollars. If we look at the overall pattern of companies throughout the world we will see that there are more losers in the area of oil exploration than there are winners. This is so in toto. When we look across the board we see that there have been winners, but there have been lots of losers because oil exploration is a gamble. One can do all the work one likes in research and search but one does not know oil is there until such time as one puts down a drill. To put down a drill costs a lot of money. A terrific amount of capital is tied up. This Government has done nothing but condemn the oil companies for what they have done in this country in the area of exploration. If we turn to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill we see very clearly what is intended. This Bill proposes to give the Minister for Minerals and Energy so much power that he can completely nationalise any company in the oil industry, and if it is carried it will achieve that end. In fact, it goes further than that. This is not the first occasion on which we have had Bills before this chamber and have seen this sort of policy proposed by the Government. 
But before dealing in detail with this Bill I ask the Senate to cast its mind back to the situation in relation to the Pipeline Authority Bill when it came forward. It was referred to as an area of need, a harmless Bill, a Bill which was essential because we needed a pipeline authority so that we could have uniformity of transmission and not have a situation similar to that which we had in relation to the railways. Nobody disagreed with that. We did not want a situation where we had different gauges. We wanted to have uniformity. We agreed that there should be some type of commission or authority eventually to establish a link up of pipelines throughout this country when they were needed, but not prematurely. What did we find? The Government set out in its legislation not to stop there but to go much further. In fact, it completely abrogated an agreement which had been in existence between the Commonwealth Government and the States of the Commonwealth. Honourable senators might note that I am using the word 'Commonwealth ' and not 'Australian Government' and all this guff which is going on at the present time and which is leading on to centralism. I refer to that because I think here is an example of a complete abrogation, or attempted abrogation, of State authority. 
Clause 6 of the agreement which was brought in at the same time or prior to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) legislation spelt out very clearly what was morally expected of the various governments, both State and Commonwealth. Yet we had a situation where one of the clauses in the Pipeline Authority Bill was such that it enabled the Government to do things which, under the agreement, it said it would not do without consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. The Government completely ignored the agreement. In the Committee stages the present Minister at the table, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)-  I am not being critical of him- when asked by me whether discussions had taken place between the 
Commonwealth and the States could not answer because he was not aware. At page 2056 of the Hansard of 30 May 1973 he said: 
I am not aware of any discussions which have taken place. I have not been advised of them. This is not to say that they did not take place. I am not aware of any discussions having taken place between the Commonwealth and the States in respect of clause 39. 
And discussions didn't take place. Clause 39 dealt with the aspect of virtually throwing in an amendment whereby the Commonwealth Government would have power under the Pipeline Authority Act to do things which the Commonwealth Government and the States had agreed would not happen until such time as there had been discussion between the States and the Commonwealth. This is the attitude of the present Government. It has no respect whatsoever for moral agreements or for the authority of States. It has only one aim in view and that is to get total control for Canberra. For the record I think I should read in clause 6 of the agreement referred to in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Perhaps I had better go further than that. The preamble to the Act states: 
And whereas the Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States have accordingly agreed to submit to their respective Parliaments legislation relating both to the continental shelf and to the sea-bed and subsoil beneath territorial waters and have also agreed to co-operate in the administration of that legislation: 
I emphasise the words 'have also agreed to cooperate in the administration of that legislation' because this agreement imposes a moral obligation on all parties, State and Commonwealth. Clause 6 of the agreement states: 
1 ) Except in accordance with an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State Governments, a Government will not submit to its Parliament a Bill for an Act that would either- 
amend or repeal an Act that is contemplated by the preceding provisions of this part; or 
in any material respect affect the scheme of the legislation that is contemplated by this agreement. 
But we find that this is the very thing this Government did in relation to clause 39 of the Pipeline Authority Bill. I mention that because I think it is essential that we point out to this chamber the attitudes of this Government towards agreements with the States and what it will do when it gets the opportunity to take unto itself total power. Now let us look at the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. Clause 
I I of the Bill states: 
The Authority has power to do, in Australia or elsewhere, all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with, or as incidental to, the performance of its functions under this Act. 
Then we move on to clause 12 which states: 
) Without limiting the generality of section 1 1 , the Authority has power, for or in connection with the performance of its functions- 
to purchase land; 
to take land on lease; 
to take casements over land; 
to sell, or otherwise dispose of, land vested in the Authority but not required for the purpose of the Authority; 
to lease land vested in the Authority the use of which is not for the time being required by the Authority; 
f) to release any easements over land; 
to purchase or take on hire plant, machinery, equipment or other goods: 
* * * * 
to form, or participate in the formation of, a company: 
to subscribe for or otherwise acquire, and dispose of, shares in, or debentures or other securities of, a company; 
m ) to enter into an agreement, on such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit, with any person or body for the use by the Authority of a patent, process or method of performing any work; 
to authorise the use of any patent vested in the Authority; 
to acquire, upon such terms as the Authority deems fit, an interest in- 
a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried on on the Australian continental land mass or elsewhere by another person or body; or 
any undertaking other than a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried on in Australia or elsewhere by another person or body and is an undertaking of a kind that the Authority is authorised by this Act to carry on; 
In other words, the door is right open- 
to lend moneys, upon such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit, to a person or body carrying on or intending to carry on- 
a mining undertaking on the Australian continental land mass; or 
ii ) any other undertaking in Australia of a kind that the Authority is authorised by this Act to carry on, for use by the body or person in connection with that mining undertaking or other undertaking: 
to underwrite issues of shares in, or debentures or other securities of, a company carrying on, or intending to carry on, an undertaking of a kind referred to in paragraph (p); 
r) to enter into a partnership or arrangement for sharing the risks involved in carrying on operations by way of exploration for, or recovery of, petroleum or minerals, and for sharing the petroleum or minerals recovered in the course of carrying on the operations or the profits derived from carrying on the operations; 
) to give guarantees; and 
to do anything incidental to any of its powers. 
When one looks at that sub-clause one can see very clearly that what the Government is going for here is to get total power for itself and to place itself in a position where virtually it can become a monopoly in this country. That is what we do not want to see happen. If the Government were honest with us and with this chamber it would come out openly and admit what this 
Bill is all about. It would admit that this Bill is worded in such a way, and embodies such an area, that it would enable the Government to establish or nationalise much industry in this country. I for one am not prepared to see this happen. I am not prepared to support such legislation. 
It is no good saying that the Government would not do this. We have seen already what has happened with the Pipeline Authority. We have seen the interference by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in the North West Shelf. We have seen the interference by the Minister for Minerals and Energy in my own State of South Australia. I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy another question today about a feeder pipeline in South Australia. I placed a question on the notice paper in, I think, early October last year, to find out the position regarding the feeder pipeline, who was to build it and who would have control of it. I must say in all fairness to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  that I spoke to him on a couple of occasions and it was not his fault- he certainly tried to get the answer for me- that the answer came through only 2 days before this chamber rose for the summer recess. The waffly answer I received was that discussions were still taking place on behalf of the South Australian Government. That is all I received in answer. The words represented areas of grey. There was nothing clear cut at all.I am hoping that I will receive an answer to this question because, as a South Australian, I am concerned to see what the position will be. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has created so much concern in South Australia by his interference that last year - 
Complete interference from Canberra. 
The Minister has certain powers under the Pipeline Authority and he has certain other powers whereby he has been interfering in the establishment of the Red cliffs project in South Australia. That project would have been well under way by now if it had not been for the dictatorial attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 

 - Senator Poyser says that is not true. I remind the Senate that on 16 October 1973, not that long ago, the Dunstan Government in South Australia- I remind honourable senators that the Dunstan Government is a Labor Government- supported an Opposition motion expressing deep concern at the action of the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy. All this related to the Redcliffs proposal. 
-No, I did not say this; the Dunstan Government said it. I am referring to a motion moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the House of Assembly in South Australia. The motion was: 
That this House expresses deep concern at the actions of the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  in relation to the proposed Redcliffs petrochemical development, and urges the Government to take all possible steps to resolve the present threat to its establishment. 
All Government members supported the Opposition motion. The Premier has been very concerned about the interference by  Mr Connor  which has been jeopardising the establishment of the petrochemical industry in South Australia. This proposed industry was to cost in the area of $350m at the time it was proposed. We have heard many people refer to South Australia as a milk bar State. I do not accept that description. We do have certain industries that fluctuate very much with the peaks and troughs of the economy. This project is a chance for our State to establish another industry some 170 miles north of Adelaide. It represents good decentralisation, something that this Commonwealth Government keeps talking about all the time. It would be a stable industry and it would not be affected by the small, short term peaks and troughs in the economy. It is an industry that would employ many people. It would encourage other industries to come to the area because this type of industry is cumulative in itself. All these things should be going to South Australia, but unfortunately we have in Canberra a dictatorial Minister for Minerals and Energy who is continually interfering in the proposal to establish the Redcliffs project. It has been in jeopardy for a long time and the situation has not improved today. The Minister interfered last year and is still interfering at the present time. 
Consider the matter of equity.  Mr Connor  said to the South Australian Premier: 'You will not have those particular groups of industries if you want to establish this. You are to have some of these and this is the way it will be'.  Mr Connor  won the day. So the project has been held up. We have problems today with certain companies in establishing areas of equity. They are good companies and responsible companies, but there are problems associated with the equity arrangements all because of interference by  Mr Connor. 
Consider the situation in relation to liquefied petroleum gas.  Mr Connor  again has said that the liquefied petroleum gas will be converted to motor spirit. The Premier of South Australia has said that  Mr Connor  has stated that that has to be done; so, the Premier presumes, that will have to be done.  Mr Dunstan  said in the House of Assembly in the South Australian Parliament on 20 February this year that South Australia's liquefied petroleum gas was not to be exported. The Commonwealth Government has made this quite clear. The Commonwealth Government, of course, is  Mr Connor.  The Commonwealth Government has also said that this LPG will be converted to motor spirit. This is a very costly and inefficient process because for every tonne of LPG there is something like a 40 per cent to 45 per cent return not of motor spirit but of blending stock that still has to be processed. 
It is a costly process. The capital equipment involved is extremely expensive, but on top of this these companies which produce the LPG- I refer to the gas exploration companies in the Gidgealpa-Moomba area- can sell this LPG today for in the vicinity of $ 100 a tonne. They are not allowed to do it. But the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  makes the statement that he will supply the Philippines with something like 30,000 tonnes of LPG a year. The question I pose is: Where will he get it? My understanding is that the present producers of LPG are pretty well limited in their ability to keep up with exports at present and are exporting almost to capacity. The Minister for Primary Industry may be able to correct me if I am not right, but that is my understanding. Thirty thousand tonnes of LPG is quite a bit. 
This is what was guaranteed to the Philippines. I do not object to them having it; we must help these countries. But let us look at the situation. We could sell this LPG overseas for $ 100 a tonne. We would gain much in the way of export earnings from doing so. On top of this it would enable us to pay for cheaper petrol than we can get now because we are selling LPG at a premium and buying back cheaper petrol than we can produce ourselves. Also we are able to bring in the heavier crudes that we need in this country for heavy furnace oils and the bituminous byproducts we get from them. We have all of this but, no,  Mr Connor's  blind dictatorial attitude says 'You will not export LPG, you will convert it to motor spirit', a process which will give a 40 per cent to 45 per cent return and is so expensive. 
It will be a premium price petrol. Also, importantly, we have a situation where  Mr Connor  will not even put a price on LPG. Gas producers do not know what they will be able to charge for it or what their returns will be. So we have a situation where these people are expected to set up their transmission, their connecting pipelines in the gas field- no small feat; no cheap undertaking but a dear exercise- and put in a pipeline to the Redcliffs refinery at this time when they do not even know what the price of the LPG will be or what their returns will be. How can they go to the market and obtain capital to establish this transmission and connection when they do not even know what they will get for their product because the Minister will not tell them? 
In addition the conversion to motor spirit is a very costly and inefficient process, as I have said. What is the intention of the Minister? Is there to be a subsidy? If there is to be a subsidy, where does the subsidy go? Does it go to the gas producers? Does it go to the producer of the motor spirit, in other words, the consortium involved in the refinery? Or does it finally come down to the consumer? Will the subsidy be placed there? Firstly, we have no idea whether there will be a subsidy and, secondly, if there is to be a subsidy no one has any idea of who will be the beneficiaries. So it is left completely up in the air at present. Yet we have a situation where Redcliffs has to be built. The equipment required and the refinery required for this conversion to motor spirit is a big undertaking involving many millions of dollars. It is one of those eggs which, once scrambled, cannot be unscrambled. Once we decide to convert LPG to motor spirit we are stuck with the plant and have to continue to use it. The producers are being told that this plant must be established because they must produce motor spirit and if they must produce motor spirit they must have a plant. Yet nobody knows what will happen with regard to the subsidy or, if somebody does know, that information has just come out. I notice a paper changing hands at the table. Also, nobody knows what the price of LPG will be. 
Altogether there is a most unfortunate situation in South Australia. It is one where we have the opportunity to establish a big petrochemical industry, even by world standards; an industry that will be worth so much to our State in so many ways. On top of this, taking a national approach, it will be worth so much to the country in so many ways. Yet the whole project is being placed in jeopardy at present because of the attitudes of the Minister for Mineral and Energy. Early in this last session of the State Parliament the Premier intended introducing an indenture Bill that would formalise relations between the State Government and the petrochemical consortium but he had to admit finally that this would not take place in that session. He made the statement as early as 15 February this year that there would be no indenture Bill formalising relations between the State Government and the petrochemical consortium introduced in that session of Parliament. He said that the day before Parliament resumed in February 1974. The South Australian Parliament finished sitting last week and that Bill was not passed. Why was that Bill not passed? The Premier of South Australia, the Government of South Australia and the Opposition in South Australia were ready to support such a Bill last year when the situation was that the whole of the petrochemical proposal for Redcliff was a going concern, that is, until  Mr Connor  came in and started interfering. So we have a position today where we do not know what we are going to finish up with in South Australia, if anything. 
We do know one thing. If and when it is established it will cost a lot more than it would have cost last year. Who will carry the baby for this? I suppose the industry will have to carry it. South Australia will have to carry it. When I refer to industry' I refer to the producers, the consortia and the consumer because there will be a greatly added cost with inflation running at something like 14 per cent and with the projection being 20 per cent this year. Yet we have not even started the project in South Australia. We have not even been given the green light. We do not know whether we will get the green light in South Australia for the establishment of this petrochemical industry. All this is because of one man. Is it any wonder that I stand up tonight condemning the Minister for his interference in a big project that South Australia needs and would have had well on its way towards establishment had it not been for this Canberra interference? Frankly, I must make it clear that as far as I am concerned it is high time that  Mr Connor  stepped down from his dictatorial pedestal and settled down to some fair dinkum Australian compromise, co-operation and fair play. I want to make it perfectly clear that the Premier of South Australia and the Opposition in South Australia have done all they can to get this project established.  Mr Dunstan  himself has criticised  Mr Connor  and expressed his concern on so many occasions, as we have. I do the same this evening because I am a South Australian and support the establishment of industry in my State. I am sick to death of the dictatorial attitude of people like 

 Mr Connor who are holding up not only exploration in this country but also the development of industry throughout the country and, in particular, this $3 50m exercise that should mean so much for my State of South Australia. I do nothing more than condemn him for his actions and point out again that this is the sort of thing that concerns me when we deal with a proposal such as is put up by the Government at present regarding the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. One can read clearly from this proposal that the intention of the Government is to take over as much as it possibly can of this country. 
This country was developed by the muscle, sweat and honesty of purpose of people and the encouragement of individuals to go out and give it a go- and they did a pretty good job. I can only say that in the last 15 months there has been a complete reversal of form. One only has to look to see what is happening. We have shortages of material in industries, a lack of development in industry and a lack of willingness to put capital into this country because the Government will take away that money or the assets that it is used to develop. We have a complete reversal of form in this country. The sooner the Government adopts a different attitude the better. I not only support my Leader in opposing this legislation, I condemn it. 
-Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate confirm that Senate Estimates Committees are not to be reestablished to inquire into this year's appropriations? If this is so, why is this Government not prepared to allow close Senate scrutiny of government expenditure as other governments have done in the past? If that is not the case, why has the Government taken no action to reestablish Estimates Committees? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. As Attorney-General and as one who should know both the Standing Orders and the Constitution, at the time the AttorneyGeneral informed  Senator Gair  that he was not, in  Senator Murphy's  view, a  Senator, did  the Attorney-General inform  Senator Gair  that he should not vote in this chamber? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the Government intends changing the name of the Australian Wheat Board to the Australian Wheat Corporation? Was this a request from the Australian wheat industry? Is the Minister aware that the present Australian Wheat Board has been acknowledged for many years both at home and overseas as an excellent selling organisation? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour Is it a fact that some trade union officials are paid wages and overtime by trade unions when those unions are involved in strike action? Does this also apply to shop stewards? If this is so, how does this practice align itself with that of workers and members of those unions who receive no pay while on strike? 
-On 5 March this year I asked the Minister for Primary Industry a question regarding superphosphate subsidies. In answer he pointed out that South Broken Hill Ltd had found great deposits of phosphate rock in north-western Queensland. He went on to say: 
There were some extensive negotiations with the previous administration on the development of those deposits. Since the change of government, my understanding is that the Company has not proceeded with any further discussions with the Government on the development of those deposits. 
I ask: What is the reason negotiations have not continued between this Government and the company concerned? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. I ask: Are reports of proposed increases in postal and telegraph charges correct? If so, is the Postmaster-General aware of the great hardships which these increased charges will impose on many areas in the community? Will any areas in the community be exempt from or be given certain concessions in respect of these increases? 
-Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that the current strike tying up the 
Australian Endeavour' involves a trial shipment of 25,000 cases of South Australian and Victorian oranges destined for New Zealand? Is the Minister aware also that the hold-up could adversely affect this trial shipment, resulting in New Zealand's making future purchases elsewhere with the consequent loss of an important potential market worth about $2m to South Australian and Victorian citrus growers? Will the Minister have a discussion with the Minister for Transport to effect the early sailing of the 'Australian Endeavour '? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it not a fact that Australian citizens of Czechoslovakian origin cannot obtain a visa to visit their former country of birth unless they forfeit their Australian citizenship? Will the Government have discussions with the Czechoslovakian Government to abolish this discrimination and to protect the rights of these Australian citizens? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Following the Government's statement last night that local telephone calls will be increased to 6c per call - 
Questions shall not anticipate discussion upon an Order of the Day or other matter which appears on the Notice Paper. 
The statement that was given last night appears on page 8 1 of the notice paper. It is listed as item No. 4 under the heading 'Orders of the day'. It is quite obvious that the Opposition intends to use 2 avenues to debate this matter- at question time and again when this matter comes before the Senate for debate. 

 Senator Poyser has said; but persons occupying your position,  Mr President,  have always treated that standing order with a degree of tolerance which its operation properly requires. If one is to take the position that a senator cannot ask any question about inflation, he cannot ask any question about costs and he cannot ask the Postmaster-General any questions about matters in the area of his responsibility, one just denies the opportunity for any questions to be asked at all; and that, I submit, is what  Senator Poyser  's point of order actually involves. It would mean that, taken to the letter, a question can be ruled out of order because it relates to something which is covered by what I understood was a very comprehensive statement that was made last night. My submission is that if you look at what  Senator Young  was asking you will see that insofar as he had proceeded with his question, he was not asking about a matter which occurred last night. He had used prefatory words and he had not reached the stage at which his question had been asked. I submit that, if this point of order is to be taken, it may be taken on many other questions, and I do not think that is the way in which the Senate ought to be run. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is very important. It is one which the Government used with 5 other Bills to submit to the Governor-General that grounds existed for a double dissolution of this Federal Parliament. We in the Opposition have questioned the constitutionality of this Bill being submitted to the Governor-General as grounds for a double dissolution. Accordingly on Thursday, 18 July,  Senator Durack  moved an amendment in this place on behalf of the Opposition. For the record I shall again read it into Hansard. It states: 
Leave out all words after 'That ', insert: 
1 ) ' this Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted as a new Bill, because the Senate is of the opinion that it should not have been submitted to the Governor-Gener by the Prime Minister as a ground for the double d. solution of Parliament on 1 1 April 1974 and should not now be introduced into the Parliament as the possible basis for advice to the Governor-General that he should convene a joint sitting of the Senate and the House of Representatives, for the following reasons: 
On 13 December 1973 the Bill was introduced into the Senate and read a first time. 
On the same day, which was known to the Senate at the time to be the last sitting day in 1973, the motion was moved for the second reading of the Bill, the debate was adjourned and the resumption of the debate made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. 
Later on the same day, during the second reading debate, a non-Government senator.  Senator Byrne,  for reasons referred to in his speech, successfully moved that the debate on the motion for the second reading be adjourned and that the resumption of the debate be an order of the day for the first sitting day in February 1974- the next anticipated sitting day of the Senate. 
Approximately one and a half hours after that event, on the motion of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Senate adjourned to a day and hour to be fixed by the Presidentexpected to be a day and hour in February 1974. 
On 14 February 1974 His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, acting upon the advice of the Government prorogued the Parliament until 28 February 1974, by which action all Bills on the Senate notice paper lapsed. 
The Standing Orders of both Houses provide for Bills which have lapsed as a consequence of prorogation to be proceeded with in the subsequent session, and if a Bill is in the possession of the House in which it did not originate it can be restored to the notice paper at the stage which it had reached at the date of prorogation, provided a message has been received from the House in which it originated requesting that its consideration be resumed. 
On 12 March 1974, the fifth sitting day of the new session, a message was received by the Senate from the House of Representatives requesting the Senate to resume its consideration of the Bill. 
Upon receipt of the message, the Leader of the Government in the Senate moved that the request be complied with, to which the Senate agreed, without debate or dissent, on 1 3 March. 
On 19 March the Senate resumed the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill and, on 2 April, the motion was defeated. 
On 8 April 1974-3 sitting days after the defeat of the Bill on 2 April- the Bill was again received by the Senate from the House of Representatives and the Senate deferred the Bill for 6 months on 10 April 1974. 
The events in (i) to (x) above reveal that the relevant requirements in section 57 of the Constitutionthat the Senate should reject or fail to pass a proposed law on 2 occasions, separated by a period of 3 months- have not been met in either respect, particularly in view of the Government's specific request, on 12 March 1974, for the Senate to resume its consideration of the Bill at the state it had reached on 13 
December 1973- the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill; and (2) The terms of this resolution be forwarded by the  President  to  His Excellency  the Governor-General forthwith. 

 Senator Durack spoke at great length and with great clarity when putting forward our amendment yesterday. I should like to make one point, without going into all the details because the record shows the argument excellently put forward by  Senator Durack.  I refer the Senate to page 196 of the Senate Hansard of 12 March 1974. Under the heading 'Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill ' it states: 
Message received from the House of Representatives in the following terms: Pursuant to the Standing Orders relating to the resumption of proceedings on lapsed bills, the House of Representatives requests the Senate to resume consideration - 
I emphasise the words 'to resume consideration '-  of the Bill intituled 'A Bill for an Act to establish a Petroleum and Minerals Authority', which was transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence during the last session of the Parliament, the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the prorogation of the Parliament. 
I repeat the words 'the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the prorogation of the Parliament'. The argument of the Government has been, of course, that this Bill was rejected at this time. Yet the record shows conclusively that the message from the House of Representatives read by the Leader of the Government in this place,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, clearly spells out that debate on this Bill was interrupted by the prorogation of the Parliament. The prorogation of the Parliament, when all matters are wiped off the notice paper, is the responsibility of the Government. Hence, if we go back to that date we find that the interruption of the passage of this Bill was the result of Government action, not the result of any action taken by the Opposition in this Senate. Accordingly, we must then come to the next occasion on which the debate on this Bill was continued and take that as the date of the first rejection of this Bill. From these dates one cannot arrive at a period of 3 months. 
This is a most important and far-reaching Bill. Like most Australians, many of us for a long time have encouraged Australian participation in the development of the petroleum and mineral resources of Australia. When I use the word encouraged' I refer to the fact that we have encouraged individuals to participate in companies for the exploration and exploitation of our petroleum and mineral resources and we have encouraged Australian companies to be involved in this activity. But we find at present that this has not been the role of the current Government. All of us agree that it is necessary for us, and the Government in particular, to have some form of control in an advisory and regulatory capacity to assist in the development of Australia's resources, if I can put it that way. This is borne out in a report to which  Senator Douglas  Scott referred yesterday- the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources- which stated: 
For these reasons the Committee believes that an advisory authority should be established with Commonwealth and State representation which would be empowered to make a comprehensive continuing survey of Australia's fuel and energy needs and tender advice to Commonwealth and State Governments on all matters relevant to the use and production of fuel and energy. 
There is no doubt that if that Committee had been dealing with minerals it would have made a very similar recommendation. I say that,  Mr Deputy President,  because you and I were members of that Committee. Therefore, I do not think that any honourable senator on the Government side can level at the Opposition the charge that we do not encourage and support increased Australian involvement in the exploration and exploitation of our minerals and energy resources. 
For a long time this Government has talked about Australian ownership. Most people, if asked what that meant, would interpret it as individual support and participation, not what this Government is proposing in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. This Bill does not just involve a question of Australian ownership. It is very far-ranging and would clothe the Authority with terrific power. It does not stop at giving assistance in an advisory capacity to Australian industry while at the same time providing guidelines to assist in the proper development of our resources; it confers so much power that it could lead to the nationalisation of the mining and petroleum industries of this country. This is the thing that concerns me. The Government speaks in one way but then takes legislative action in another way. 
Another factor is that the Government speaks of Australian ownership, but not just Australian ownership on an individual basis is implied in this legislation. This Bill implies the involvement of the Government to such an extent that it could lead to the nationalisation of great areas of our petroleum and mineral resources, as well as the energy requirements of this country. This would cost huge volumes of money, and all that money would be taxpayers' money. There is a vast difference in interpretation between what one might have thought was Government philosophy and what is clearly shown in This Bill to be Government policy. 
Since this Government came to power there has been a great down-turn in the volume of actual exploration, particularly in the off-shore areas, because of the lack of incentive from the Government. It regards overseas capital, for example, as dirty money. Any overseas company which is in partnership with Australian companies and which has been lucky enough to have some success is regarded as a multinational corporation, which is an international disease and should be wiped off the Australian continent. Criticism has been levelled at so many of these companies which have brought so much expertise and money to this country to explore and to assist in the exploitation and development of our resources. In Australia in 1972 the total number of wells drilled for petroleum was 135. In 1973 the figure dropped to 74, which represents a drop of about 45 per cent on what was previously being done actively in and around Australia. For the period from January to June this year the dismal figure is 35 wells. 
The situation is an alarming one, at a time when there is a world energy crisis and a great demand for us to find more in our own areas. We have great areas, particularly off-shore, because we have the good fortune to be a coastal state. Many of these areas extend out to the 200-mile limit and beyond. We already know that there is great potential- this has been proven- in certain of our off-shore areas. Yet there is a great downturn in exploration today. Companies are being criticised. The attitude of the Government to companies which have had success in the finding of hydrocarbons, whether liquid or dry, is: 'You go out and find it, and we, the Government, will keep it'. If the Government does not keep it in toto, it keeps it in bondage. This is happening at present. We must also realise that off-shore exploration is an extremely expensive exercise. It is one of those high risk areas in which the return is one successful or partly successful well in 40. Those statistics have world-wide application. We must realise that on the North- West Shelf it costs in the vicinity of $3m to drill a hole. After many of these $3m holes have been drilled, there is success and some return on the high risk capital invested. But the Government steps in and puts the commodity in bondage or virtually takes control of it. There is no incentive for a company to continue spending millions and millions of dollars on such a high risk venture as oil exploration. 
So we have the unfortunate position today in which so many companies are turning away from Australia and going overseas. From what I can gather, there will be a continuation of the turning-away from Australia. Companies will go not very far away. They will go to our near neighbours. They will go to South East Asia, the Indian sub-continent and before long, no doubt, the Asian continent. One must question why these companies are leaving Australia and going to other countries. There is a very simple answer. It is that they have been given a far better deal than they can expect to receive from the present Australian Government. So we have the situation at the present time where instead of encouraging and accelerating exploration for our energy requirements we have a great downturn in exploration activity. This is something to which I think this Government must give a lot of consideration. Quite frankly, it should reconsider its whole attitude towards this question. But unfortunately when we look at the ultimate outcome of this Bill, we look pessimistically at the fact that the Bill may go before a joint sitting of this Parliament where, because of the brutality of numbers, what is proposed in the measure will become a reality. One can only expect that in the future companies will continue to drift away from Australia, a country that has shown a great deal of potential, particularly in the off-shore area. One could also refer to the great mineral development and expansion that we have had in recent years. 
I will now refer to the Bill and, perhaps in a little detail, spell out a few of the things in the various clauses which give me and members of the Opposition so much concern. I refer to Part II of the Bill which is headed 'Establishment, Functions and Powers of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority'. Under clause 6 of this legislation if it became law, the Government would have the power to explore for petroleum and petroliferous minerals on the Australian continental land mass and elsewhere; to recover petroleum, etc.; to refine petroleum in Australia or elsewhere; to manufacture petroleum products and petrochemicals in Australia or elsewhere; to buy and sell petroleum- I emphasise this, because the Government is getting into the commercial field, too- petroliferous minerals, petroleum products and petrochemicals, whether in Australia or elsewhere; and to transport petroleum, petroliferous minerals, petroleum products and petrochemicals on the Austraiian continental land mass and between Australia and other countries. I should like to return later to the question of transportation. 
We find that under clause 7 exactly the same thing applies to minerals. The functions of the 
Authority include the power to explore for minerals; to recover minerals; to treat minerals; to refine metals and other substances; to crush, screen or otherwise treat or prepare for sale coal and construction materials in Australia or elsewhere; to buy and sell materials, refined substances and manufactured materials and substances; and to transport minerals, refined substances, etc. I return to the definition of 'Australian continental land mass' which is referred to extensively, particularly in clauses 6 and 7. We find that 'Australian continental land mass' means 'so much of the morphological unit of which Australia forms part as comprising Australia and the part of that unit surrounding Australia extending to the outer boundary of the continental shelf. Hence we see that this Bill would give the Government power to explore for petroleum, etc., and to explore and exploit minerals in the seabed to the outer boundary of the continental shelf. It means that the Government is taking over an area which is the subject of great question at the present time as to where Commonwealth authority and State authority lie. This area is covered in a part of another Bill which was rejected by the Senate on a previous occasion and which no doubt will again be subjected to great question when it is discussed. 
While dealing with this matter I wish to refer to the attitude of the Labor Premier of South Australia, the Honourable Don Dunstan. He is reported in the 'Advertiser' of 5 July of this year as saying that South Australia will challenge the validity of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act in the High Court. The newspaper article continues: 
The Federal Act, brought down in 1973, declared that sovereignty of the territorial seas, air space over it, its bed and sub-soil is vested in and exercisable by the Commonwealth. 
The Federal Government thus asserted ownership over all Australian coastal waters beyond the low-water mark. 

 Mr Dunstan said South Australia would be in an impossible situation unless the position, regarding the internal waters of the State in the gulfs and adjacent to Kangaroo Island and the atypical position of South Australia's letters patent founding the province and declaring the territory of the State, were put to the High Court. 
The only way to ensure this is to issue proceedings ourselves, since the Federal Government has invited the challenge to the Act to get the law defined,  Mr Dunstan  said. 
This is the very interesting part; it refers to this great co-operation between the Federal and State parliaments: 
South Australia had suggested to the Commonwealth Government that it should invite the States to join in a test case in the High Court, which could be done co-operatively, but it-  the Commonwealth Government-  has refused the suggestion ', he said. 
I return to what I was saying, before I quoted that statement of the Premier of South Australia, about the power that the Commonwealth Government is taking unto itself for the exploration and exploitation of minerals and petroleum in the off-shore areas of Australia. I am certain that many people, particularly the leaders, in the various States will not be very happy about such powers residing in the Commonwealth Government. 
If we look at clause 43 ( 1 ) of the Bill we see the power that the Commonwealth gives to the Authority, and  Senator Durack  referred to this recently. Clause 43 states: 
The Authority may, by notice published in the Gazette', declare an area of the Australian continental land mass to be a petroleum exploration area or a minerals exploration area for the purposes of this Act and may, from time to time, by notice published in the 'Gazette', alter the boundaries of such an area. 
Before commencing to explore for, or carry on operations for the recovery of- 
petroleum in a petroleum exploration area; or 
minerals in a minerals exploration area, the Authority shall notify in the 'Gazette' its intention to do so. 
Here one must question how far the Authority, under this legislation, intends to go and how far it intends to override States authority. 
Having said that, I want to return to what is involved in clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill. We find that not only will there be exploration and exploition, but also the authority will have the ability to move into the manufacturing and processing field in the area of hydro-carbons. We find that the same thing applies also in the minerals field. This again illustrates the wide ranging powers provided by this legislation. If we look further we find reference to transportation. Perhaps one could understand a reference to transportation of hydrocarbons, because of pipelines, etc., but the transportation does not just stop at the point where perhaps the hydrocarbons may be piped from off-shore areas onto the mainland and then via trunklines over the mainland. The legislation states very clearly that the Authority will have power to transport petroleum, petroliferous minerals, petroleum products and petrochemicals on the Australian continental land mass and between Australia and other countries. When this clause deals with the transportation of minerals we find exactly the same wording:   on the Australian continental land mass and between Australia and other countries. 
How far would this legislation enable this Government to go? One must, in all responsibility, question how far the Government would go in this regard, because we all can recall the provisions of the Pipeline Authority Bill which was passed in this Parliament last year and we can also see just how far the Minister and the Government have stretched to the extreme to use the very maximum power given to them by the Pipeline Authority Act. So one must question how far they will go in the area of transportation of our natural resources. Will it lead to the Government believing that under this legislation it will have power to move into the field of shipping between Australia and other countries? Knowing what the Government has already done regarding the Pipeline Authority Act I would not doubt for a moment that it would try to enter this field itself. 
We find in clause 12 of the Bill that the Government has power to purchase land, to take land on lease, to take easements over land, to sell, or otherwise dispose of, land vested in the Authority but not required for the purposes of the Authority- in other words, the Government could become a real estate agent- to lease land vested in the Authority the use of which is not for the time being required by the Authority, to release any easements over land, to purchase or take on hire plant, machinery, equipment or other goods. Further on in clause 12 we find that the Authority has these powers: 
to form, or participate in the formation of, a company; 
to subscribe for or otherwise acquire, and dispose of, shares in, or debentures or other securities of, a company; 
to enter into an agreement, on such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit, with any person or body for the use by the Authority of a patent, process or method of performing any work; 
to acquire, upon such terms as the Authority deems fit, an interest in- 
a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried on on the Australian continental land mass- 
I emphasise these next words-  or elsewhere by another person or body; or 
any undertaking other than a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried on in Australia or elsewhere by another person or body and is an undertaking of a kind that the Authority is authorised by this Act to carry on; 
So we can see the great powers that this Government would take unto itself if the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill became law. It is no good Government senators opposite standing up and saying with pious voices: 'It is not the intention of the Government to go to the extremes that you are talking about. It would not have the power to do it. In any case that is not the Government's intention'. Let me refer to what has happened under the Pipeline Authority Act. We have seen the Minister for Minerals and Energy interfere to such an extent that he has caused great concern. I have referred to the fact that the Minister has virtually put under bond the gas that is found on the North West Shelf. I referred also to the interference of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in my own State of South Australia. 
We have seen the multi-million dollar project at Redcliffs placed in great jeopardy. At the present time we still have no information as to whether the Redcliffs project will even get off the ground. It is a project which, when first mooted, was estimated to cost in the vicinity of $350m, but with inflation the way it is today I would hate to put a figure on it at the present time. However, we all realise that there will be a great escalation in the cost. In South Australia we have a consortium of companies in the gas fields area which, to my knowledge, at the present time has no idea what price it will be given for its liquid petroleum gas. Hence, because of the interference of the Minister, we have a situation of great concern and confusion. Nobody knows who will own the pipeline or who will have control of the transmission of the LPG to Redcliffs. So we have a situation in South Australia that is causing very great concern because of the powers given to the Minister under the Pipeline Authority Act. My time has expired, so for those reasons, as a responsible senator for my State, I must oppose the legislation before us at the present time and at the same time support the Opposition's amendment. 
I rise to take part in this debate and at the same time to express great concern at the attitude of the Government. I refer to last night when this report of the Remuneration Tribunal was presented to the Senate. Since I have been a senator it has been my understanding that on all occasions when ministerial statements or reports of this nature are presented, a 2-hour rule applies. That is, a copy of the statement or report is presented to the Opposition parties 2 hours before its presentation in the Parliament. Whether by misunderstanding or for some reason of which I am not aware, the first we knew about this report and its contents was when it was presented in the Senate by  Senator Willesee.  At that moment  Senator Greenwood  rose in this place and took exception to the way in which the report of the Tribunal had been presented to the Senate. Further, other forms of the Senate are being eroded. Today, shortly after  Senator Wright  gave notice of the fact that he intended to move a motion on the next day of sitting the Government suddenly attempted to suspend Standing Orders basically to bring on an immediate debate upon the report. It concerns me that this type of approach is being adopted in the Senate. 
The practices of the Senate have been built up over many years. Not only have they been built up over many years, they also have been accepted as a form of the Senate over many years. Hence, I join with my colleagues who have today expressed their concern and criticism and express my deep concern because one wonders where we are going from here. This report is not a report of only one or two pages. It deals at length with a great many aspects concerning a great number of people. Perhaps Government supporters have had an opportunity to study the report because we know from Press statements that the Cabinet met on Monday for many hours, including Monday night. We also know that the Caucus met and discussed this report. Then, according to the Press, after the opportunity for thorough and intensive discussion by Cabinet, and after long and intensive discussion by Caucus we, as Her Majesty's Opposition, were suddenly presented with the report last night. Then, we learned this morning that the Government wished to have an immediate debate upon it. I doubt whether this has ever happened previously in the Senate. I would be very surprised if it has. 
I refer again to the depth of this report and the need for a close study of it. If one thing is essential in the Senate, it is responsibility. I do not know how anybody could make an immediate decision upon this report and honestly say that he or she had studied it in depth. Such a person would have had to sit up into the late hours of the night to do so. Irrespective of that, the expected respect for the responsibility of the Opposition should be such that the Opposition should be allowed time to study the report. It is all very well for the Government. It has had a week to look at the report. We have been given less than half a day. 
Before I turn to a comment made by  Senator Hall  in the Senate, I wish to refer to what actually took place in the Senate chamber last night. The moment this report was tabled  Senator Greenwood  expressed his concern at the lack of application of the 2-hour rule.  Senator Wright  then rose and made a statement expressing his view on parliamentary salaries to the Senate. Yet, five minutes before the time appointed for the rising of the Senate last night another senator rose in his place 
-It was  Senator Hall.  He rose in the Senate and for reasons best known to himself, but for reasons that are probably not too hard to perceive, he then tried to move a motion regarding this report. I think that his action was immature and showed disrespect for another senator who, earlier that evening, had indicated what he intended to do.  His  action constituted what is commonly known as thunder-stealing. That is exactly what happened last night. I know that I am not alone in my criticism of what has happened. Many honourable senators opposite who have been political colleagues of mine in the Senate since I have been a member of it have a great respect for both the forms of the Senate and the responsibilities of individual senators. That is one of the great features of the Senate, and it is something that some honourable senators will have to learn. 

 Senator Hall again today was being very critical of some honourable senators on this side of the Senate chamber. He stated that there is a sense of urgency about this report. Granted, we want to know and the people want to know what will happen. But with all of the urgency associated with the matter there is something else that goes with it- responsibility. We have been elected to the Senate to conduct ourselves in a responsible manner, and it is essential that we do that. 
I question  Senator Cavanagh  's comment and I pose to him the question: 'Why does not the Government give us an opportunity to be responsible before we have to make a decision upon this very vital and important report?'  Senator Cotton  earlier today referred to much of what is contained in the report. One has only to look at the table of contents to see what is involved in it. There is a report on salaries payable to Ministers, a determination on allowances payable to Ministers and a determination on salaries and allowances payable to members of Parliament. There is a report upon the remuneration payable to the judiciary, a determination on remuneration payable to officers of the First Division of the Public Service and holders of statutory offices. There is an indicative determination on remuneration for certain public offices. The report goes on into a great deal of detail in many other areas setting out various aspects regarding remuneration for these officers whose classifications are covered by the report. But I did happen to notice one thing in this report; I cannot find it now, but I do know there is one area where there is something- this was mentioned by  Senator Cotton-  dealing with Senate Committees. 
Thank you.  Mr President.  All I want to say on this -you can correct me if I am out of order- is that there is a great deal regarding Senate Committees in this report. This also should be given time and study before any of us is in a position where we can validly pass comment. I come back to the point again. The Government has had an opportunity to more than peruse the report, the Government has had the opportunity to study the report. We have hardly had the opportunity for a fair perusal. I think that if honourable senators opposite were honest they would openly admit that this is a game of tactics on their behalf and not one that gives an opportunity for responsibility to the Opposition senators in this place. When we come to the situation where a senator is prepared on his own initiative to rise in this place - 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition . . . 
This is the seventh time we have listened to  Senator Young  make this point. This is so tedious and boring that I think he should resume his seat and let some new subject come before this Senate. 
The last case of this nature occurred on 22 August 1923, when the  President  directed  Senator Findley  to discontinue his speech on account of tedious repetition.  President  Givens, in directing the  speaker  to resume his seat, stated that any  Senator had  the right to move that  Senator Findley  be further heard. Thereupon  Senator Needham  moved- That  Senator Findley  be further heard, which motion was negatived on division. 
However, an honourable senator must have the right to show how he proposes to connect his remarks to the subject under discussion. The subject is the suspension of Standing Orders. I ask  Senator Young  to connect his remarks to that subject. 
It is probably only because of his impatience that  Senator Poyser  beat me to the gun by some 30 seconds, because I was coming back to repeat the fact that  Senator Wright  had moved in this place that he be able to move a motion on the next day of sitting. We have got to the situation where the Government is trying to force something upon this Senate. That does concern me and I regret that it has taken this move. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Department of Foreign Affairs launching into the area of fashion designing so that Australian diplomats will have a distinctive Australian uniform, possibly known as the Renouf rig, to wear to official functions? If so, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Bureau of Statistics will, as with our so-called national anthem quest, conduct a survey of at least 60,000 people to find out what Australians would like their diplomats to wear? 
Today we have been discussing the proposed increases in postal and telegraph charges. Let me say at the outset that I support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack.  The people of Australia have been concerned for quite some time about the state of the economy. But since the election the Government itself has expressed concern about it. That concern continued until we were informed in Press reports that a mini-Budget was to be presented to this Parliament. We waited in anticipation for the mini-Budget to arrive. As far as I am concerned, when it did arrive, it was no longer a miniBudget; it had been fragmented right down the line. We had heard Press reports that so many people were involved in the presentation and planning of this mini-Budget that finally, because everybody wanted to keep his piece of cake, one unfortunate Minister was left to carry the cherry, and that was  Senator Bishop.  I no longer look upon the action taken by the Government as a mini-Budget. In fact, I think one can only describe it as a minus statement. 
Yes, I would even agree with that. Again I express sympathy for  Senator Bishop.  Probably because of his good nature he allowed his proposal to remain whilst the other Ministers took theirs out. Nevertheless, instead of being presented in this place with a miniBudget we found the day after the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made his ministerial statement on inflation that we had many newly arrived miniTreasurers, if I can put it that way. I am certain from reports and from the advice that must have been given to the Government that much more should have been in the proposed or intended mini-Budget. We found that confusion reigned the day after the Treasurer presented his statement because no longer did we have a single Treasurer; we had many mini-Treasurers sitting in the Federal Ministry. 
I would describe the present situation as the great moment of indecision for this Government because it would appear that the Government does not know which way to go at the present dme. Granted, its position is made difficult by the many temporary and self-appointed advisers who have come to confuse the situation for it.  Mr Crean  made a few suggestions in his statement, amongst which was one to increase postal and telegraph charges. This afternoon  Senator McAuliffe  went to great pains to state that the Postmaster-General's Department must pay its way. He emphasised that it should pay its way or, in other words, that it should get its balance sheet back on an equal basis. 
It was a completely new economic theory. I should like to pass comment on that later. It appears that this afternoon  Senator McAuliffe  was the main spokesman for the Government in this debate. 
He presented a completely new economic theory. I would hope that if he writes a book on this theory it will never be read by students of economics in this country. The honourable senator's attitude was entirely different from that expressed by  Mr Crean.  If we look at the statement made by  Mr Crean  we find that under the heading 'The Control of Demand ' he stated: 
First let me say that the foundation for any antiinflationary policy must be in the control of demand. We have pushed supplies to their maximum and little can be added on that side. 
At the start of the next paragraph he stated: 
This, then, is the first strand in the Government's policies- to strengthen the measures it has already taken to contain demand. Given the timing of events, we shall be looking chiefly to our forthcoming Budget for that purpose. We have, however, decided upon a number of budgetary steps which can now be taken immediately. At the Premiers Conference the Prime Minister indicated our firm view that, in general terms, services provided by government authorities should be paid for by their users rather than by the general taxpayer. In that connection, and as part of the more general policy of expenditure restraint - 
I hope  Senator McAuliffe  is listening to this-   he said that the financial allocation for the Post Office in 1974-75 would be held at its 1 973-74 level. 
-This was said by  Mr Crean.  I do not know whether he is now the Treasurer because, according to Press reports, there were four other contenders for his position.  Mr Crean  went on to say: 
It follows from those 2 propositions that the Post Office must now raise substantial additional revenue by way of increased charges. Specifically, the Government has decided to increase postal and telecommunications charges from 1 August 1974 by amounts sufficient to yield $146m during 1974-75. 
We had another economic adviser stating this afternoon that really all that was intended in this area was to balance the budget of the Postmaster-General's Department. But the official Treasurer- if he is still the holder of that position- stated that the proposal to increase charges was made not for that reason but to contain demand. I cannot understand why the Government chose to increase postal and telegraph charges because all that can happen, apart from many people being disadvantaged, is that the cost structures of this country will be increased. 
One only has to look to see how much the poorer sections of the community will be disadvantaged by the proposed increase in the local telephone call charge from 4.7c to 6c and the public telephone call charge from 5c to 10c. People who can afford to have a telephone in their homes are the very people whom this Government tends to criticise. People who cannot afford a telephone and who for many reasons have to use a public telephone are the people who will be hit the hardest of anybody. They will find that, instead of having to pay the old charge of 5c for a telephone call when they go to a public telephone box, they will have to pay 10c. One can look at the way in which pensioners will be hurt by the Government's decision. Those pensioners who perhaps can afford a telephone will have to pay higher rentals and higher call charges. The basic letter rate is to be increased from 7c to 9a It is all very well to say that this will not be an added cost to this country. Firstly, there is a private cost to the individual which will hurt many people who can least afford it. Secondly, the State governments will have a greatly increased cost factor built into their general costs of administration. 
If one looks closely at the details of the proposed charges one finds great increases in postal and telecommunications charges. One understands and appreciates the need for rapid communications and the great need for telephonic communications particularly within State departments. These increases will be another cost burden for State governments. In commerce and industry we will find at the end of 12 months greatly increased costs. It is no good the Government saying that this is not so, because the revenue to be raised from these increased costs this year is estimated at $ 146m. A breakdown of that figure shows that a proportion will be paid by the private individual. That will not be the most affected area, however, The greatest burdens will fall into the domains of the cost structures of State governments, local government, and industry and commerce. The State governments have been squeezed by this Federal Government and hence must raise more revenue within their own States. This means another cost factor for the individual within those States and, secondly, for industry and commerce. No matter what the Government says about industry and commerce- it says that big industries are bleeding the people dry, and many of its members say they are a bit of a blot on the community because they are making large profits- I want to remind the Government that without profit there would be not industry and without industry there will be no employment. Regarding the increased cost factor and the need for profitability, these increased costs will finish up in only one areathat is as costs to the individual of this country. 
To quote  Senator McAuliffe  again, he said this afternoon that those who use telephones and other postal services should pay for them. Whenever increased charges like these are made they result in an indirect payment by every member of this community. That cannot be avoided because, as I said, while charges are levied, firstly, on State governments and local governments and, secondly, on commerce and industry, everybody pays for those increases. So we have a situation whereby increased costs, be they by way of taxation and costs of services within a State or be they by the cost of goods and services provided by industry and commerce, amount to another cost factor in our economy. No matter what the Government says, this is inflationary. This proposal propounded by the Government is completely counter-productive because all it will do is increase costs to the community- and some of those costs will have to be borne by people who can least afford them. If some honourable senators on the other side do not agree with me, while I know that  Senator Murphy  has been quoted a lot today, there is one glorious passage in his speech at page 1496 of the Hansard of 12 May 1967 which I should like to quote. Speaking of postal charges,  Senator Murphy  said: 
This measure is not designed to improve public welfare because its effects must add to the inflation which is already existent in Australia. It is rampant. We know that there is an inflationary factor of about 3 per cent a year. 

 Senator Murphy was expressing concern because this increased charge was inflationary at a time when we had an inflationary factor of about 3 per cent. Now the Government has suddenly woken up because it can see that inflation in this country is galloping at 20 per cent and that all signs are pointing to a minimum of 20 per cent. It was not until it had that situation whereby it was shown clearly that our economy is racing towards a 20 per cent rate of inflation that it even admitted that we have an inflationary problem. One has to cast one's mind back only a few weeks, to the election period, to recall that the Government said: 'There is no inflationary problem in this country; none whatsoever. It is under control. The quarterly figures show a slight downturn'. It did not tell the people that those particular quarterly figures always show a downturn by comparison with other quarterly figures and that they were a damned sight worse than they had been for many years. It was not until the signs pointed towards a galloper of some 20 per cent in the inflationary race that it decided to have a mini Budget- which never came into existence. A statement was made about the economy. I feel sorry for  Senator Bishop  because he was left to carry the can- probably because of his good nature. Let me go back to  Senator Murphy's  statement of 1967. Having said that there was an inflationary factor of about 3 per cent a year, he said: 
What is to happen now? For every letter that is posted there will be an extra charge. Charges for telephone calls are to be increased. The effects will be felt not only by the ordinary citizen but throughout industry. The increased charges will have to be passed on. 
It is interesting that  Senator Murphy  said that, because that is exactly what I said earlier about the discredited economic theory propounded by  Senator McAuliffe  this afternoon.  Senator Murphy  went on to say: 
Any effect of reductions in bulk postage will be counteracted by the effects felt by all businesses which employ the means of communication affected by these increases. The increased charges for letters, telegrams and telephones will mean that a severe impetus will be given to inflation in Australia. 
Heavens, I would like to know what the honourable senator says today. I wish  Senator Murphy  was taking part in this debate. He must be terribly concerned, having made a statement like that when we had an inflation rate of 3 per cent, to see what this Government proposes. The indicators are that we will finish up with an inflation rate of 20 per cent or more. I would like to refer also to a passage in the second reading speech put down in this place by the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  which related directly to the Crean statement. In the section headed Post Office Tariff Structure' the PostmasterGeneral said: 
Last year the Government made important changes in the Post Office tariff structure by tackling concessional and uneconomic areas of Post Office activity which provided hidden subsidies to selected areas of the community. It is unfortunate that some of the Government's efforts to phase out concessions were obstructed, particularly the registered newspaper and periodical category which will lose about $9min 1974-75. 
It is interesting that that should be said because the one thing that has concerned many people in this country for a long time is this need of communication by small periodicals, community organisations, service organisations and so many social welfare organisations which, working on a voluntary basis, have the problem of communicating not only with their members but with people generally in the community. Here concern is expressed because the Government had hoped that it could erode more of the concessions granted to these organisations. Reverting to the Bill, it discloses proposed increases in postal charges in category A, category B and category C. The proposed rates set out for category A look quite good until one tots them up. At the present time we find that the rate stands at 8c per 300 grams. But if we look at the proposed rate we find that 300 grams will cost some 8 1/2c This is not a great increase but, nevertheless, it is another increase. But underneath these amounts on this table we find that from 1 March 1975 a minimum amount of $3 will be applied to each bulk posting other than those articles posted by a news vendor or agent. This is double the previous cost. 
Here we reach the situation where many small service clubs which would not reach the maximum will be hit by a doubling of the minimum cost. This will be another loading on those groups, and there are many of them in this country. There are hundreds and, in fact, thousands of them who do so much for the community. Yet even these people will be penalised by an increase of 100 per cent. Perhaps it does not sound much, but if we tot up the cost at the end of the year we will see what it amounts to. It is a big increase for many of these service clubs and other social welfare groups in this country. If we look at registered publications, category B, which is for bulk postings of newspapers and periodicals, we find that the current rate is 3c for the first 50 grams. It is proposed that this will be increased to 4c for the first 50 grams. The charge of 1  lAc  for the second 50 grams will be increased to 2c for each additional 50 grams up to 300 grams, and over and above 300 grams it will cost an extra lc for each additional 50 grams. Basically the situation here is a double-header. This covers the area of many of the country newspapers throughout this country. I have spoken of this matter before. It is all very well for people living in cities; their papers are thrown to them every morning. 
This Government talks about decentralisation and encouraging people to move out of the densities of the cities to develop the rural areas of Australia. But having said that it continues right down the line on so many occasions to do. all it can to discourage this sort of movement. This is another example. Communication to people in the country is equally as important as it is to anybody living in the city. Country people take their little paper every week because to them it is the local Bible. People living in the city who have retired from the country take it because it is the one link they still have with their old area. Yet these little country newspapers are expected to continue. 
-There is the attitude of the Labor Party.  Senator Primmer  says that country newspapers are not worth a tinker's curse. I am glad to hear that because I guess those remarks would be echoed by many other Government senators in this place. That must be so, in view of the attitude which has been adopted by the Government regarding these papers. The local country newspaper is a very important part of country life. We have the situation where one of two things eventually will happen. I ask honourable senators to remember that it was the last straw which broke the camel's back. Here we have an added increase which must be passed on to the consumer. It cannot be absorbed by the local newspaper which, if it tries to absorb the cost, will finish up on a one-way road and go out of existence. This is one thing that people do not want. Again they are being asked to carry the burden. If we look at the history of the rural Press, particularly in the last couple of years, we find that many of these newspapers are no longer the local paper. They have merged with other newspapers throughout the area and they are getting down to a single newspaper. That is what is happening today. They are losing their local identity, which is a tragedy both for the newspaper and for the people which it serviced before. That is the first point. The second point is that we will find that many of the big newspapers in the cities, because of their size and their financial ability, have taken over these country newspapers. It is far better that this happen than that the country newspapers go out of existence. But again we reach the situation where that country newspaper loses its old identity and something is lost to that district. I know that some of the honourable senators on the Government side would not have lived in the country and they would not know the benefit of having the local rag, as it was called. 
Of course, because of the weight factor which comes into this proposal, the country newspapers, in trying to exist, will cut down in size. This is the other thing that this proposal will do. So the Government has done a doubleheader on these people. It will force them either to pass these costs on- people never like this because it is another cost- which will affect the distribution of the newspaper, or eventually the newspapers will go out of existence; or, to remain in existence, these people in turn will have to cut down the size of their newspaper. When people in the Government start talking about decentralisation and the encouragement of rural dwelling, I suggest that they stop and have a jolly good look at themselves in the mirror. No doubt most of them will see their image, but in the background, there must be, for many of them, an image of  Senator Cyril  Primmer. At least he was honest and stated quite frankly the view of this Government- that it is not concerned with a very important aspect of rural communication. 
So I come back again to the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  this afternoon. This Government brought in this proposal- why one will never know- which is inflationary. We hope that the Government, prior to the Budget, will put a bit of serious thought into deciding who the Treasurer is. At the present time there are five to choose from, four self-appointed and one elected. I say to the Government: Decide who your Treasurer will be. At least it should set down guidelines because the people of this country are waiting to know which way it is going. We hope that the Government will soon know which way it is going. We hope that it will soon tell us because one thing which can cause a lot of concern and which can encourage inflation is a lack of confidence in the community. Nobody has given greater encouragement for a lack of confidence than this Government has given in the last 3 weeks. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Does the Minister recall the Prime Minister stating in his policy speech on 10 May this year that the Federal Government would provide $22 m for the sealing of a 2-lane highway between Port Augusta and Alice Springs? Since the Prime Minister stated that work would commence within 3 months, which period has almost expired, can the Minister say when work on this project will be commenced? If the Minister cannot say this, would he make inquiries and let the Senate know the result? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Can the Minister recall my asking a question of him in March this year concerning the payment of union officials during strikes? As the Minister could not give me a definite answer on that occasion, and because of the great number of strikes at present, I now ask: Do union officials receive any payment during a strike or do they forfeit their pay in the same way as the other members of their unions during a strike period? 
-Mr Acting  Chairman  - 
-I thank the honourable member for Angas. I have no doubt why other honourable members from South Australia did not speak after  Senator Steele  Hall. Most of them used to be members of the Liberal Movement. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has been missing all day. He was a very fond follower of the ideals and principles of the Liberal Movement as espoused by  Senator Hall  in this chamber. Coming so late into the debate one has an opportunity to assess the influence it has had on honourable members. After speaking to all people on our side of the chamber, I find that no one has been persuaded by the arguments put forward by the opposition. However, I have been given a new lease of life after talking to a number of honourable members opposite, especially those of the Liberal Party, who now realise how they have been hoodwinked by the Australian Country Party. The influence of the Country 
Party on the Liberal Party in this debate would be the greatest confidence trick ever played on any political party. This is the third or fourth time this matter has been debated by the chambers and this is the third or fourth time on which the Senate has shown no respect at all for the judgment of or the laws to be passed by the House of Representatives. What do the last 2 elections mean? No one in this chamber has put forward the view that the issue of electoral reform was not debated at the last 2 elections. We all saw the glossy photograph- we are not sure about their ages or their hair styles- of the 4 leaders of the Liberal and Country Parties. Each and every one of them in all their major speeches warned the people of Australia what a disaster it would be for the Labor Government to be reelected in Australia. The people answered them on 18 May 1974 as they did on 2 December 1972 by re-electing the Labor Government. Obviously this was an issue. 
-I think there is still some doubt on the Opposition benches as to who won the election. I was amazed to come across a document which I thought was a send-up of the Liberal Party. So I have not quoted from it before, but I shall do so now, seeing that honourable members want their views to be clarified. I think, judging by the front of the document, that there is some scheme going on in the Liberal Party secretariat to undermine the prestige of the Leader because it has a Pickering drawing of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden.  I did not quote from this document earlier because I did not believe it was a Liberal Party document. Some of the articles contained therein are 'The Best Vote for Years' by Bob Southey; 'How I Lost, Drew and Won Stirling' by Ian Viner; 'What's So Different About Queensland?' by John Moore; Why We'll Win Next Time' by Bill Snedden; and 'The Powers of Leadership'. 
The most interesting feature of the whole booklet is the article by  Mr Snedden.  I suggest to all honourable members that they should get a copy of it. It is a most interesting journal. At page 3 1 of the booklet in the article by  Mr Snedden  the following appears: 
I believe the Party's morale, stature and confidence are very high today. It is, perhaps, remarkable that this statement could be made in the aftermath of an election which, regrettably, we lost. 
My reading that quote will save the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  trying, for the remainder of this year, to get the Leader of the 
Opposition to admit that the Liberal and Country Parties lost the election. At the election in 1972 and again at the election in 1974 the Labor Party announced that there would be electoral reforms throughout Australia. How the Liberal Party can sit by and be hoodwinked and confidenced into going along with the Country Party is completely beyond me. 
What advantages are there to the countryside in having a 20 per cent electoral tolerance? I do not stand here to defend anybody who gerrymanders electorates, be he Tom Playford, Bjelke-Petersen or Vince Gair. What advantages are there? Country members say: 'We will not have to drive so far if we have a smaller electorate. We will not have to do a number of other things which city members do not have to do.' They are not the advantages that country people want. Someone spoke about going to Narromine. I went to Narromine before the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was out of nappies. I suggest that the Liberal Party should take the lead from their  President  in Victoria and stand up to the Country Party. He was re-elected. People in the Liberal Party have faith in his leadership. Obviously what is required in the country are the things that governments can give them, not fewer miles for members to travel. The country needs schools and, of course, child care centres. The first time members of the Country Party heard the term 'child care' they thought it was an R-certificate movie. Obviously these are things that the country people need and this is the first Government that has ever thought about giving them these facilities. 
Let us consider the history of how the Liberal Country League in South Australia treated  Senator Hall.  What was his crime in South Australia following upon the Government of  Sir Thomas  Playford from 1932 to 1965? What happened to  Senator Steele  Hall in South Australia?  His  crime was not his policies outside his view- his progressive view- of electoral reform. People stood here and accused him of not bringing in the principle of one vote one value. How could he bring in the principal of one vote one value in the Upper House in South Australia that was controlled by the conservatives with a majority of 16 to 4? The only reason the conservatives did not have a majority of 20 to nil in the South Australian Upper House was because they would not run candidates in the other districts. That was the view held by the Upper House, the conservatives, the Adelaide Club, the 'Establishment' of that city.  Senator Hall,  the Leader of his Party, said that he could not go along with it and that there ought to be a recognition of the fact that the people were sick and tired of it. After the South Australian elections in 1968, when the Labor Party received almost 54 per cent of the votes but were defeated in government, 20,000 people marched from the parade grounds in Adelaide to Light Square to demonstrate against the iniquitous electoral system that operated in that State. In 9 elections held under  Sir Thomas  Playford 's Government, Labor won the majority of votes in 8 elections but it never governed during that period.  Senator Hall's  crime, for which he was convicted without trial in the Adelaide Club, was that he wanted the people to have a fairer distribution of the electoral boundaries in South Australia. He is to be congratulated for his stand on that issue, and we will reserve judgment on his stand on other issues. 
The final point I make about this issue is that I am amazed- perhaps I should say astoundedthat  Senator Withers  could come into this chamber and use his father as a spring-board in order to demonstrate some argument against the laws that are being introduced by this Government. 
-It is a pity we could not let his father in to tell the truth about how he educated his son and what it means. Ours is the only Party that has been in existence since Federation. Ours is the only Party that is likely to continue. Ours is the only Party which truly reflects the thinking of the vast majority of the Australian people. I ask the members of the Liberal Party- the newspapers get to the country too late to let country people know what is going on- to come and join us. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has Australia decided to grant de jure recognition to the incorporation of the independent states of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia into the Soviet Union? 
-Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate confirm that the Budget sittings will commence on 1 7 September? 
I present the following petition from 72 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the right of self-determination belongs to every nation, big or small, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania nave been deprived of it for 30 years by the Soviet Union. All Australian Governments for 30 years have refused to recognize the Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, but now understand that such recognition has been granted. We the undersigned petitioners wish to express our concern and dismay and humbly ask that it be retracted. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom, Human Rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similiarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Davidson,  I do not propose that this petition be read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has he seen Press reports, and can he confirm those reports, that the proposed 
Redcliffs petrochemical project in South Australia is on the verge of collapse? Does the Minister recall my warning him over many months that the Redcliffs project was in jeopardy, particularly because of Commonwealth Government interference? Also, is it a fact that a petrochemical plant may now be built in Western Australia in place of the proposed Redcliffs project in South Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I do so following previous questions I have asked and inquiries I have made on this matter. Is it not a fact that senior officials of trade unions on strike, unlike the rank and file members, still receive payment which on some occasions amounts to more than they normally receive when their union is not on strike? 
I present the following petition from 47 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Laucke,  I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At what time on which day did the Minister arrange with the Royal Australian Air Force for a RAAF plane to smuggle Ermolenko from Australia? 
-I present the following petition from 47 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned citizens of Australia of Baltic origin wish to express their concern at the announced intention of the Australian Government to recognize the annexation of the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. We submit that these once free and independent Stales were occupied by force of arms and beg the Senate to disallow such recognition as a matter of principle. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from SO citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom, Human Rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Baume  I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 
I  present the following petition from 72 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom, human rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions in similar terms have been read, I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Following his statement that the Government is negotiating to buy the coin telephones known as red phones, can the Postmaster-General say whether negotiations are now complete and, if so, what price was paid? Will the Government convert these red phones so that emergency calls can be made without the use of coins, inability to do so having in the past caused so many problems? 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that the dropping of the superphosphate bounty will cost rural industry an extra $66.9m, much of which will be reflected in increased costs to the consumers? Is the Minister also aware that the cost of superphosphate has risen this year from $15.55 a tonne to $33.58 a tonne and without the current bounty will cost $45.39 a tonne? Is he also aware of the New Zealand Government's approach to increased costs of superphosphate in that country? What does this Government propose to do about this matter in Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows upon the Prime Minister's statement in which he alleged collusion between multi-national companies and trade union officials. Does the Minister know of any instances of such collusion? If so, will he state what were the types of collusion and the companies involved? What steps does the Government intend to take to prevent such occurrences in the future? 
The wheat industry is one industry in this country which was prepared in the early post-war years to contribute during good times in order to cover wheat payments and to provide security for it in bad times. We have seen fluctuations in the industry both in regard to price and seasonally but grower contributions and stabilisation have made it one of the more secure industries. This is important because there have been peaks and troughs in the whole of the rural industry sector. It is important that the wheat industry be secure because it is one of our most important rural industries. The wheat industry is a great export earner but it involves a great amount of capital intensity and hence there is a flow-on factor covering many fields , such as the labour component, the manufacturing component and the commercial aspect, through to the export earnings affecting our overseas balance of trade. 
Throughout the years there has been criticism that to some extent the ratepayer has heavily subsidised the wheat industry. I have refuted that statement for years. Only in the last couple of years did we reach a very critical situation when governments had to go in fairly heavily to assist the industry. However, I think we must look to the reasons why this was so. We cannot sell wheat if we do not have markets for it. Australia was faced with the peculiar situation of being one country which is very prominent in research. We assisted in carrying out research and we saw a green revolution throughout the world when countries which previously were solely dependent on wheat imports suddenly became nearly self-sufficient. Other countries very much dependent on wheat imports to meet home requirements suddenly became exporters of wheat. This situation, coupled with good seasons in both hemispheres, suddenly saw in Australia a great surplus of wheat. This situation applied to other big producing countries also, such as the United States of America and Canada. 
The thing that concerns me at the present time is that there is very little surplus wheat- in fact surpluses are basically non-existent- and if there are more failures in some producing countries this year there could be problems in producing sufficient to meet consumption requirements throughout the world. But situations change very quickly and in two years' time there again could be great surpluses in all the wheat exporting countries. Hence it has been imperative that we have another wheat stabilisation scheme. 
I am particularly pleased that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  working in cooperation with the leaders of the wheat industry, has reached agreement on a stabilisation scheme very different to the previous one. It is not an open-ended scheme as was the previous one, but whilst concessions have been made on one side others have been made on the other side. The industry, although perhaps it wanted more out of this stabilisation scheme, has not criticised it. It is pleasing to see that we will be able to continue with a stablisation scheme in an industry which lends itself to peaks and troughs, both in regard to seasonal factors and price factors. 
I want to refer to the membership of the Australian Wheat Board. The Minister spelled out very clearly in his second reading speech that membership of the Board will be the same as previously. Over the years the Board has been prepared to go out and find markets as well as to expand old and continuing markets. I think the Board is to be commended for the way it has conducted the affairs of the wheat industry. The Board is recognised and respected by the various consuming and trading countries and I am glad that the same structure will operate. I also hope that the Board will be able to continue its work without too much Government interference. I could refer to the concern last year over a sale of surplus wheat to Egypt but I feel that over the years the Wheat Board, basically acting independently, has been a good marketer of its product and I hope it continues on the same basis. 
I want to make one other comment. I refer to a new aspect within the stabilisation scheme on this occasion- the fact that the Board is being given supplementary borrowing powers which will enable it to make earlier progressive payments than it has been able to do in the past. I think that this is a very important aspect. I hope that when this Bill is passed and becomes law the Wheat Board will have the ability to make early payments to the wheat industry. This facility will enable the Board, when it has the backing of credit and assets, to make earlier payments to the wheat industry. I wish to ask one or two questions of the Minister in the Committee stage. The legislation has my full support. I am very pleased that the Government has seen fit to work in cooperation with the industry to give the security of stabilisation to this very important industry of Australia. 
Firstly I refer the Minister to his second reading speech in which he said: 
The Government has agreed that any outstanding government contributions not recouped by the end of the fifth season will be written off. 
But then there is no provision in the Bill. I ask the Minister why this has not been included in the Bill. Secondly I refer to clause 18 (2) of the Bill. Where the Government has played a part in the marketing of some wheat under long term arrangements which may be extended for an extra period, or where there may be default of payment, is the Government prepared under such circumstances to give financial assistance to the wheat industry? Thirdly, I cannot see anywhere in the Bill reference to wheat that may be given in aid to countries at a discounted price or as a grant. What would be the position of the wheat industry under those circumstances? Can the Minister give me answers to those questions? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Following the statements by the Minister for Education approving further capital grants for non-government schools in Australia amounting to some $5. 3m, can the Minister say which South Australian school will receive the miserable pittance of $15,000 allocated to South Australia out of a total allocation of some $5. 3m for Australia? How many applications were received from South Australian schools? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether it is a fact that the Federal Government has accepted the recommendation of the Australian Post Office Commission that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the telecommunications facilities of the Australian Post Office be merged into a single telecommunications corporation. If so, can the Minister say when the actual merger is likely to take place? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the Government's policy not to renew the superphosphate bounty. As this bounty expires on 3 1 December this year, is the Minister aware that this will discriminate against those users of superphosphate who are unable to take delivery before that date? As the Government will be incurring the cost of bounty payments up to 31 December, will the 
Minister give consideration to spreading the equivalent cost of the bounty over the full year ending on 30 June 1975 so that all users of superphosphate will receive some benefit rather than only those who can take delivery before 3 1 December? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the big movement of crude oil around the Australian coastline and the consequent continuing danger of oil pollution in our offshore areas, what steps have been taken by the Government to have sufficient supplies of dispersant readily available for the treatment of any such oil spills? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Following the Minister's statement that Australia has 15 years of petroleum supplies in reserve, based on present known quantities, can the Minister state the basis for his calculations? Did he take into consideration the problem of maintaining present production rates when some wells and fields are 80 per cent to 85 per cent depleted? I point out that this applies also to the extraction of condensates in gas fields. With the change in the Government's resources policy, can we now expect to see some encouragement in the exploration for and exploitation of hydrocarbons in both the on-shore and offshore areas of Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether he has seen reports of a recent meeting between  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Noel  Hogan,  President  of the Australia Farmers Federation. Was the Minister informed that the meeting was to take place? If so, was the Minister present? Has the Minister seen a transcript of  Mr Hogan  's interview of 9 October on 'National Farming News' in which he said that  Dr Cairns  had indicated with very nice assurances that the Government might change its mind about abandoning the superphosphate bounty? As the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  has made such comments, will the Minister make a firm statement on this matter to clarify the situation? 
I rise to speak on this Bill and give my support to it. Whilst I am very pleased that at last agreement has been reached between the State and Commonwealth governments, at the same time I, like many South Australians and Territorians, have been particularly concerned that it has taken so long to reach a situation where finally we can see a start on this very important rail link. Transport is one of the most important areas in any community. It adds so much to costs generally and, therefore, if we have inefficient transportation we will have costs unnecessarily added to our economy. This is something that we in South Australia particularly have faced for a long time because we did not have what could be termed a uniform rail link with the other States of Australia, with the exception of Victoria. With the construction of the standard gauge rail from Adelaide to Crystal Brook, Adelaide will be connected to every capital city in Australia. Perhaps more importantly, South Australia will have a uniform rail, without the need for transhipment from one gauge to another as we have had in the past, connecting our eastern and western seaboards. The industrial areas of Adelaide, particularly Mile End, will have direct access and efficient transportation to the markets both east and west. We already have a standard gauge railway line established in the industrial area of Whyalla at the top of Spencer Gulf, connected to our eastern and western seaboards. When this line is finished this industrial town will be connected to a uniform gauge to Adelaide. Port Pirie was known for many years- it sits directly across the Gulf- as one of those rare railway stations with 3 gauges coming into them. Soon Port Pirie will have a single standard gauge connecton to places throughout South Australia. 
There is still one link that is not connected. No doubt it is full of great problems. I refer to the standardisation of the railway line between Adelaide and Melbourne. One would hope that this will not be forgotten in future projections for rail transportation in Australia. Whilst Adelaide will be connected to the eastern and western seaboards it still would be to its advantage and to the advantage of cities on the eastern side to have an alternative rail route. I hope that the Government has not lost sight of the need to standardise the railway line between Adelaide and Melbourne. 
One other aspect which I am also pleased to see in this Bill is that some of the feeder lines are being standardised. I refer particularly to that rail link from Snowtown to the port of Wallaroo. South Australia is fortunate in having quite a few seaports but Wallaroo services quite an area and will be able to service a much larger area with the standardisation of the railway line. This should be of great benefit to so much of the midnorthern area of South Australia. The Government has made certain allocations for the development of this railway, lt has left the construction of it in the hands of the South Australian railways.  Senator Steele  Hall queried whether the railways will be able to sub-contract any of this work or will do all the work themselves. This is one question I would like anwered because one of the areas of great concern, particularly at present, is the escalation of costs through inflation. There is so often a tendency when governments try to do work themselves for the work to take much longer than planned and for costs to be far more than originally provided for in the Budget. This has been one of the tragedies of this project from the very beginning. In the initial stages when it was mooted the cost would have been minor compared with what it will be today. One wonders, even though the Government has stated figures, what the ultimate cost will be when this line is completed. 
With so much unemployment at the present time and the problem of finding positions for so many people who would much prefer to be employed than to be receiving charity, as so many people call it, through no fault of their own, I wonder whether the Government could not increase the work on this railway line. This would not require any increase in total budgeting for it, but it would give many people employment and at the same time hasten the final standardisation of this railway link. I refer particularly to the rail link between Adelaide and Crystal Brook and to the feeder line between Snowtown and Wallaroo. We hear talk about giving assistance in regard to unemployment in the rural areas and in the cities. So much assistance could be given in this bad unemployment situation. People could feel that they were receiving an honest day's pay for an honest day's work. I make that suggestion to the Minister very seriously. 
I turn to the other proposed rail link between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. This is a rail link that is long overdue. For so long we have seen a situation in which at certain times of the year the rail and road links to Alice Springs are completely closed. This is a matter that should be given priority and should have been given priority before this time. It is interesting to note that the route for the projected railway will not be the same as that taken by the present railway. Great problems are faced because the rivers flood out over great areas. Hence, the route will be west of this area and will be away from this watershed. 
I would hope also that, in the development of this rail link, the establishment of the road will not be forgotten. I think it is essential that there also be a highway through that area. I remind the Minister of the statement made by the Prime Minister during the election campaign this year. The Prime Minister stated in South Australia that the Government intended to build a 2-lane highway- I emphasise the words '2 lanehighway' from Adelaide to Alice Springs. I have asked a question of the Minister on this matter. He has supplied an answer to me, indicating that the Government intends to make a start on this project by way of undertaking surveys this year. I feel that this is essential, because 2 things are necessary when this new rail link is eventually built to Alice Springs. It is taking a new route. This will affect adversely such areas as Marree and so much of the high quality cattle country in that area of South Australia and also the Northern Territory. I hope that priority will be given to such matters as efficient feeder roads. Beef roads have been constructed in Western Australia and Queensland. I hope that the same consideration will be given to developing feeder roads to serve these areas, once served by a railway line, to make sure that they have good transportation to the rail link. 
Alice Springs is a rapidly developing city. It is no longer a bush town in the centre of Australia. It is essential that it have good communication. By communication, I do not mean communication by telephone or by radio; I mean physical communication or transportation. This is affecting so many things, not just the people living in Alice Springs. This country is trying to develop tourism. We advertise so much for people to go the Centre. But how often do we read of passenger buses loaded with tourists being bogged in the mud for days? It provides no encouragement for people to go on a tour of the Centre when they have this fear in the back of their minds. There is not much fun in sitting around in a bus with a sea of mud about you when you want to get out and see other parts of the country. There are many reasons why the rail link and the road should be developed as quickly as possible. 
I am very pleased that politics have not been brought into this debate so far. I feel that the Senate tonight has discussed this matter on a level of national interest serving not just my State of South Australia but the whole of Australia. However, there is one matter that concerns me and I must make reference to it. It is a statement made by the Minister for Transport in his second reading speech in another place. The Minister said: 
I emphasise that it was the Commissioner - 
That is the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner  who took the initiative and not the then Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I think it is unfortunate that the Minister saw fit to introduce politics into the matter in that way. I remind honourable senators that the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner was doing his job. But he was doing Ins job for a government. That government, the then Liberal-Country Party coalition Government, was the government of the day which initiated investigations for the development of a new rail link to Alice Springs- a standardised rail link. Successive governments have continued with this task. It has been a very big task, but progressively it has reached the stage where today we are going to make a start. 
I commend this Government for being in the position that it is ready to make the start. I take nothing away from this Government for the fact that it is about to make the start. But I regret the fact that the Minister for Transport sees fit, in regard to national issues such as this one which are of great importance to this country and which do not serve one State more than another, to introduce cheap politics into the matter. I wish that that sort of practice would be dropped. There are far more important things to do than to play petty politics on issues of such great magnitude as this. I mention this matter because the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport delivered in another place was also delivered in the Senate. This statement appeared in the second paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech. It was set in a position of prominence to try to make out that the present Government should be given the kudos for what is being done and that no credit should be given to any other government of this country. I do not accept that sort of thing in politics and I regret very much that the Minister has seen fit to do it. 
I also wish to make some comments in relation to Tennant Creek. There is much mineral development in the area and no doubt there will be much more as time goes on. One of the great deterrents at the present time to the development and expansion of the area and to the encouragement of further exploration for and exploitation of minerals is the high cost and inefficiency of transportation.  Senator Jessop  has referred to this position tonight. I might say that  Senator Jessop  has shown a great interest in the development of transportation to the north for many years. He referred to the great problems of obtaining foodstuffs in Tennant Creek during the floods last year. The livelihood of so many people in this area is dependent wholely and solely upon mining. Yet some of those mines reached the very dangerous situation of having to close down completely last wet season because communications with Tennant Creek were completely cut off. Food and other supplies were short for the mines themselves. Also, stockpiles were built up, causing disruption to shipping and exports to other countries. One mine in particular exports a great deal of concentrate to Japan. It had the problem of re-arranging shipping. All these things add to costs. These increased costs add to the discouragement of further expansion and development in this area. It is most important that encouragement be given for further development of mining and other projects in this area. I state again that I hope the Government will not lose sight of the need eventually to have a rail link to the Tennant Creek area and that in the interim the Government will make sure that the people have good road communication. I repeat that I support strongly these Bills, and I am glad that at last a start is being made on 2 very important and necessary projects for the welfare and benefit of this country. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy whether he has seen reports that Australia may invite Japan to join with Iran in helping Australia to build a multi-million dollar petrochemical complex in the Pilbara district of Western Australia? Does this proposal mean that there is a change in the Government's attitude towards overseas investment and also its resources policy? Will such a proposed petrochemical project at Pilbara jeopardise the proposed Redcliffs petro-chemical project in South Australia? 
-Would the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate whether provisions of the Trade Practices Act will apply to extravagant claims by political candidates, such as the now well known misrepresentation: 'Only Whitlam has reduced inflation by one-third'.? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not a fact that the Government stated that meat prices were a big factor in the previous quarterly increase in inflation? Is it not also a fact that since then meat prices have fallen considerably during the September quarter? Following the Government's previous comment, would not the present rate of inflation be much higher than the now record 21.6 per cent if meat prices had not fallen to a great extent during the latest quarter? Further, what steps is this Government going to take regarding the frightening rate of inflation at the present time? 
I have listened with great interest to the discussion in the Committee stage on the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle.  I must say that I have not been convinced by Government speakers or any other  speaker  who has not agreed with  Senator Guilfoyle  's amendment. This is because no honourable senator has put forward any convincing reasons why the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  will not be in a position of total control to direct the Australian Film Commission in any way he sees fit. I remind honourable senators of what is contained in clause 5, which sets out the functions of the Commission. Clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) states: 
subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films and, in particular - 
It goes on to list 3 paragraphs. Sub-clause (c) states that these films, which it is the function of the Commission to make, are subject to the approval of the Minister. I will not say that trouble could arise under the present Minister for the Media. But this Minister will not always be with us. We do not know who may be the Minister. We have a situation which could be dangerous. This is an area in which there could be a political Propaganda machine established. Let us be h onest about the position. This is what it could be. Further on in the Bill we find that the Minister can direct theatres to show those films he wishes to be shown. He has that much power. This afternoon we are discussing whether we should give the Minister this much power. 
One could go to extremes in such a situation, and in discussions such as this I think one should point out the extremes. We have seen in certain parts of the world what has happened when a propaganda machine has been put in the hands of an individual person. I am not going to say that it will happen in Australia. But the language of this Bill lends itself to this situation. The Commission will be an autonomous body but responsible to the Parliament. There is nothing this Commission can do in relation to its functions where it is not responsible to Parliament. So there is control of the Commission. In my view, there is no need to give this total power and control of the direction of this Commission to the Minister. I think that as a responsible chamber we are leaving ourselves wide open for criticism if we do so. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator  Guilfoyle's) be agreed to. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. With the introduction of colour television and the variety of colour television sets available, particularly from overseas, what steps has the Government taken to inform people of the traps involved in buying these expensive sets? Has the Government made people aware of the excellent document, 'Australian Buyers Guide', published by the Consumer Standards Association on the problems involved and care needed in the purchase of colour television sets? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on what  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator James  McClelland have said. 
I support what  Senator Cavanagh  has said. I appreciate that  Senator James  McClelland has stated that the witnesses were aware that this evidence would be made public. In that case I question why the Committee should hear the evidence in camera. I express the view that when witnesses appear before a committee on the understanding that they are giving evidence in camera the transcript of that evidence should be purely a committee document and not a public document. On the other hand, if witnesses are informed that their evidence can be made public, I question why a committee should then bother to take that evidence in camera? 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLAND (New South Wales)-  Mr President,  I seek leave to make a further statement on this matter. 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that since he last answered me on the matter of superphosphate bounty, chemical workers in the industry have received a 20 per cent wage increase, the metal trades unions have applied for a 10 per cent wage increase, the price of rock phosphate has further increased by 32 per cent to 35 per cent, there has been the effect of the 12 per cent devaluation and the price of sulphur is expected to increase early in 1975? Is the Minister also aware that these increased costs will raise the price of superphosphate by at least $8-odd per tonne to a maximum of $40-odd per tonne? I am talking of the 1975 anticipated costs. In the light of these factors, will the Minister give consideration to introducing some form of bounty for superphosphate to assist and encourage increased production in the rural industry? Will he make an early statement on the matter to clarify the situation? If not, how does the Government align itself with its present policy of support for the Food and Agriculture Organisation in order to increase food production and to help feed the starving millions in the world today? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Following the Prime Minister's statement that an inquiry will be undertaken by the Industries Assistance Commission into stabilising farmers' incomes, can the Minister state what are the terms of reference submitted by the Government to the IAC? Were they discussed with the leaders of the Australian Farmers Federation to obtain their views? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that the present Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  is being posted to Washington as Australian Ambassador? If this is so, can the Treasurer be taken as the first of many who may be axed to make excuses for the Government's mistakes? 
Following an answer given earlier today in relation to rock phosphate in Queensland, has the Minister for Agriculture made any inquiries? If not, will he make inquiries to give some indication of what the cost per tonne will be for this rock phosphate? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Will he urge the Government to increase the first advance payment on wheat to $1.80 a bushel for the coming 1974-75 harvest in order to assist the liquidity problems of farmers and to help counter increasing costs, including the huge increase in the price of superphosphate? With world wheat prices so high and demand for wheat so strong, would not such a first advance payment be financially possible? If the Minister is not prepared to support such a proposal, will he give the reasons why, particularly in view of the fact that he is urging farmers to expand wheat production greatly, which will involve a big early cash outlay? 
It is interesting to recall that before this Government came to power its members and supporters were very critical of the Liberal-Country Party Government because of the high rate of inflation and the concern that was being expressed about unemployment in this country. When this Government took over a very short time ago inflation was running at about 4.6 per cent and falling, and unemployment was being reduced. We were again reaching the stage of full employment. Since then we have seen a complete reversal of the whole economy of this country. We see that inflation today is running well in excess of 20 per cent. In fact inflation in Australia, a major trading country, is running at one of the highest rates of any country. There are some countries with higher rates of inflation but they are smaller countries. Japan, a big trading country, has a higher rate of inflation. 
We hear excuse after excuse from this Government for why we have inflation. It is easy to see that the reason we have this great rate of inflation is the economic management and instability of this Government in this country. This Government came to power hell bent, if I may put it that way, on forcing its socialistic policies upon the Australian community and the Australian way of life. These policies were first and foremost and economic logic took a secondary place. This Government has continued in that vein the whole way through. We have seen a stop-go situation. In fact it has been worse than that. It has been a stop and full acceleration situation. So often there has been merely a panic button operation. I could refer to such things as the 25 per cent cut across the board in tariffs which virtually was an economic time bomb. Nobody knew when or where it would go off. We have seen the great unemployment that that 25 per cent cut has brought to this country today. Our unemployment figure is the highest in the history of this country and I hope we will not see it again. Nobody wishes to see the great amount of unemployment that we have. I fear what the situation will be early next year when so many young people leave school and join the work force but are unable to get jobs. 
It is no good the Government making excuses, as it has done. It says that Australia has imported a lot of this inflation. No doubt international inflation does have an effect upon any country but again I remind the Senate of what the situation was not so many years ago when inflation overseas was running extremely high. We saw high inflation in the United States of America and in England. We saw high inflation in France and the same in West Germany. What was our rate of inflation at that stage? At that time we had one of the lowest rates of inflation of any major trading company. The situation today is the reverse. We are one of the leaders in the field in the international inflationary race. It is no credit to this Government, nor is it any consolation to this country, that we should be in such an unfortunate situation, one which basically has been self inflicted by the policies of this Government. 
The Government completely cast aside economic logic in formulating its policies and went straight down the hill with its socialistic ideals. One can say: 'OK, there is international inflation'. One can look to Japan where inflation is running much higher than it is in Australia. However the bulk of this inflation overseas is directly related to the energy crisis. Japan, for example, is one country which was solely dependent upon external supplies of crude oil. Hence she and many other countries were adversely affected by that situation. That did not affect Australia. We have been proudly boasting that we are 70 per cent self sufficient in oil in this country so this Government should not try to use the energy crisis as an excuse for the rate of inflation that we have today. In its first Budget, which was a disaster, the Government budgeted for a deficit to make sure that it would do the things it said it would do, irrespective of the economic situation. We saw the Government spending money like water and the well would never be pumped dry. But the well was pumped dry. Senior Ministers were themselves encouraging wage demands in this country and criticising the Opposition for daring to say on any occasion that excessive wage demands were adding to the cost push factors of inflation in this country. They tried to ridicule the Opposition for this criticism. 
We noted  Dr Cairns  making statements implying that wage demands do not have any effect upon inflation. I wish to quote from an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 29 July this year. It said: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  has called for substantial wage and salary increases for workers to meet the rising cost of living. 
I repeat that the words 'called for substantial wage increases '.  Dr Cairns  said: 
There must be substantial wage and salary increases to allow for cost-of-living increases and for the correction of anomalies in work values and relativities. 
He made that statement to the Victorian Australian Labor Party Conference on 29 July. A few days later, on 12 August, there was suddenly a big change in the attitudes of our  Deputy  Prime Minister. On 12 August he called for unionists to modify wage and salary demands. He said that the power to halt inflation lies elsewhere than just in other fiscal policies; inflation in the next year would be caused by wage and salary demands.  Dr Cairns  said: 
I have to say to unions across the nation: 'Go easy, mate.Think of those who are not as well organised as you are. Wage rises are not at the expense of the big employers but at the expense of the mothers and fathers of your comrades, and your own children. ' 
So he went on, completely contradicting what he had said a few days before and what he and other Ministers of this Government had been saying for months before. Let us turn to other areas in which this Government has completely disrupted the economy of this country by its philosophies and its attitudes. I refer to the area of overseas capital, which was regarded as dirty money. It is on record that many Ministers and supporters of the Government have condemned multi-national corporations and overseas capital for coming into this country. The Government brought in a policy of a 30 per cent freeze on overseas capital, making it at an absolute premium price for such money to come in. We have seen our wondrous Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  with his policies which have done all they can not only to discourage but also to discredit overseas investors and overseas explorers who were prepared to come into this country and do what they could to assist us in our mineral and oil exploration and development. The tragic situation is that our oil exploration has slowed right down to a bare minimum and companies have turned their backs on Australia and have gone elsewhere, for the simple reason that this Government regarded them as sinners who should go out and risk millions of dollars worth of capital and expertise to find something. Having found it, this Government would step in, put the squeeze on them in many ways and virtually take it over. That is the situation we have reached. It will take a long time to restore confidence in this country. 
The Government became conscious of this situation a short time ago and so we saw the freeze reduced to a token of some 5 per cent on overseas funds. But ironically the  Deputy  Prime Minister- the Treasurer to be, as one would anticipate from reports in the Press- is overseas at the present time, not concerned so much with overseas trade as with hawking around the money markets of the world to see what overseas capital he can encourage to come into this country. It is just not a case of reversal of attitudes; it is a case of sheer political hypocrisy. How can any Government and any Minister- particularly a Prime Minister- in the short space of a few weeks completely reverse attitudes and go cap in hand to the very people who were not just being asked to show moderation in investment in Australia but being condemned? Yet at the present time the  Deputy  Prime Minister is over there pleading with them to bring their finance into this country to try to get Australia moving again. We find the same situation with private enterprise which has nearly been killed in this country because of the Government's attitudes and policies. Liquidity has dried up to such an extent that many companies which should not have crashed have been starting to crash. 
I take it that  Senator Primmer  refers to people who have invested in building societies as spivs and speculators. 
There he goes. I ask him which people comprise a building society. The average citizen of this country, the multitudes are the ones who invest their money in building societies. Old people have put in their savings as well as young people wanting to build a home of their own. That is against the desires of this Government, which does not believe in private ownership of homes. It wants to force people to live in multi-storey flats and government-owned homes so that it can have control of their housing.  Senator Primmer  should not deny that because his Government's Minister for Housing had to concede the point due to the attitude of the Senate. He agreed to lift the proportion of freeholding in his Housing Bill last year after pressure from the Opposition and States. This Government does not believe in free enterprise and free ownership. It has done all it can to squeeze people. 
The same situation applies to people who are trying to educate their children. The Government has aimed at what it terms and thinks are the moneyed people of this country. It has done all it can to erode and destroy our private schools. The reduction from $400 to $150 a student as a taxation deduction for educational expenses is a wonderful example. But the policy has misfired because the people who have been hit are the very people whom the Labor Party says at election times it is representing and will support. I would like to remind the Senate that the people who find it the hardest to dress their children and to provide them with text books and amenities they need for their education are the average working people of this country and not the wealthy people at whom the Government has been aiming. The wealthy people do not greatly feel the reduction to $150. Those who feel it are the families where the mother and father are working and have three or four children going to high school. This Government is trying to take away the right and ability of those parents to provide their children with a choice of school and school uniform, and thus seeks to destroy the pride of the children. All children in this country are equally entitled to wear their school uniform whichever school they attend. What the Government has done is make it jolly near impossible for parents to do that. 
I defy any honourable senator on the other side of the chamber to tell me that it is possible to dress high school children in school uniforms, keep them in shoes, socks or stockings, provide them with school blazers and with their text books for $150. It cannot be done. If honourable senators are not prepared to take my word for it they can go into the electorate and ask the people of this country. It ever this Government made a great political mistake it made one over the reduction of the allowance from $400 to $150. But then we can look at what has happened in other areas. We can look at the great credit squeeze created by the Government and we can look at what this Government did not do when that was on. I must give credit here to the Premier of South Australia and the Leader of the Opposition in the South Australian Parliament. 
One of our building societies in South Australia during the panic period a few weeks ago, brought on by the lack of leadership of this Government, had a great run on its funds. The Premier of South Australia spoke to the people and gave them a guarantee that the particular building society concerned would not go broke. 
The Leader of the Opposition in South Australia did the same thing. Politics did not come into the matter. A State-national approach came into it. People who withdrew their money from the building society that day were the next morning putting their money back into the society because they had confidence. That confidence was given to them by the leadership of the Premier of South Australia and the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia. The panic was initially brought about because of the lack of leadership and the insecurity of the economic climate created by this Government because of the ridiculous credit squeeze which was imposed upon Australia. 
When companies are starting to fall can honourable senators blame the people for wondering which will be the next company to fall? In those circumstances they cannot be blamed for taking their life savings and investments out of a building society. The situation which arose in South Australia should never have happened. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to say that spivs and speculators were involved in this matter. I do not regard people who put their life savings into a building society as spivs, nor do I regard a young couple who are saving to build a home as spivs. It might be against the policy of this Government for young couples to own their own home and their own block of land. Good luck to them. The Opposition believes that they should be able to own their own home. 
I turn now to what has happened at the present time. We find- if the Press reports today are correct- that after the short space of 7 weeks we will have a mini-budget introduced tonight. It will not be a budget brought down by our official Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  who I think has been one of the most unfortunate and one of the most denigrated politicians to come to Canberra. With all the criticism he has had the grates have come from his own Party and from within his own ranks. At the present time we are hearing all sorts of rumours about the Treasurer. It is not the Treasurer who will be introducing this minibudget tonight. As I understand it, it will be a statement from the Prime Minister. It will probably be made in the absence of the shadow treasurer. One wonders what we will see in this mini- budget. It is only 7 weeks since the Budget was introduced. It will be interesting to see just what will be in the so-called economic policy set down by the Prime Minister tonight. I will forecast that there will be a change of philosophies involved in this mini-budget. 
At last this Government is starting to wake up to the fact that if a government wants to be a socialist government it can be that kind of government but there is only one way in which it will finish up and that is downhill economically. This is what has been happening to this country. We are going downhill rapidly and it will take a long time for this country to recover. It will take a terrific time because the people of Australia have lost confidence. The people overseas who have invested money in Australia have lost confidence. One only has to look at the Budget which was brought down 7 weeks ago to see why this has happened, let alone the previous period. If one examines the area of company taxation one can see the squeeze that was put upon companies which resulted in increased prices being charged by the companies. In Australia increased prices affect everybody in the consumer field. 
If one turns to the area of capital gains tax one will realise that it is not a capital gains tax in the true sense of the word. It is a capital gains tax that was set to work to kill the property owner, large or small, in this country. It is a capital gains tax which was to do everything it possibly could to destroy the initiatives, the incentives and the preparedness to invest. We find the same thing applies with the 10 per cent premium on so called unearned income. I would like someone to define for me 'unearned income'. Are the benefits received by a person who invests his money in some society or company as risk capital to be regarded as receiving unearned income? I do not regard such benefits as unearned income. Again, what the Government has done in this area is to hurt the little people who have invested their money- the superannuitants who would like to see a little more cream on their jam. These are the people the Government is hurting. I anticipate that we might even expect something in this area tonight from the Prime Minister. I feel that this has been one of the most ridiculous policies that has been implemented in this country. The cost of collection alone would balance out a lot of the return which would be received. All the Government is doing is hurting people and killing incentives. 
This Government, as  Senator Carrick  stated, in the short space of 2 years has had a great increase in revenue. It has doubled from some $800m to some $ 1 ,600m. This Government, during the last 2 years, has got fat on inflation because of the increase in revenue, particularly in the area of income tax. Taxation set at such levels today because of inflation has got completely out of hand and has helped to encourage wage demands in this country. The high rate of taxation proportionate to the great increases in wages is eroding much of the real income of people in Australia today. No doubt we will see something in this area announced by the Prime Minister tonight. This Government has got fat on the increased revenue. The States have got poorer and this Government has made sure that the States have got poorer and poorer for one reason- and one reason only: This Government still wishes to dominate the State scene. This Government is a centralist government and is hell bent on doing all it can to get centralism firmly established in Australia. 
I will mention Queensland in a minute. I will go one step further and refer to my State of South Australia in a few minutes. This Government has been giving money to the States but not by the normal type of grants. They have been making grants which are in the form of direct aid- the type of grants which the Government can push through under section 96 of the Constitution whereby the Federal Government can tell the State governments how much money they will get for their extras and how that money is to be spent. The Federal Governmentone can see this in so many of its policies- has been doing all it can to erode State authority and to bypass the State parliaments as much as possible to enable it to have total power in Canberra. This has been done by direct policies and indirectly- by the back door. It has applied section 96 of the Constitution which it has not used but rather has abused. That is the only way one can describe it. So many of the policies of this Government clearly have led to a policy of centralism and the destruction of State parliaments -not just to the erosion of State authority but to the long term destruction of the State parliaments. 
I am not reflecting on the Grants Commissioners. If  Senator McAuliffe  wants to misinterpret my words, he can. I am referring to section 96 of the Constitution and the way in which this Government operates under it without Grants Commissioners. If the honourable senator does not believe me he can ask some of the State Premiers. If he does not want to believe the non-Labor Premiers he can ask some of the Labor Premiers and they will give him the answers. I wish to quote what the Premier of 
South Australia said on 23 October. He was referring to the Federal Labor Government and its attitude towards the States. He referred to the new taxes he had to implement- shocking taxes -such as the 6 cents service charge, as he called it, on petrol and other taxes which are all inflationary. These are the sorts of things Premiers did not want and which economists would never have done but which, by compulsion, the States have had to introduce in order to raise money. One can be critical perhaps of the States for implementing such forms of taxation but one, at the same time, has to be sympathetic because the States still have to run a budget. The States are left to administer much of this country. This Government is so miserly purely for one reason and that is to thrust its centralist policies upon the States which have no alternative but to go out into the area of revenue earning. Speaking on the implementation of certain taxes that are not good taxes,  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, said: 
The taxes result from the direct and deliberate refusal of the Commonwealth Government to accept a co-ordinated policy to contain inflation. 
Later  Mr Dunstan  stated in the Parliament: 
It is important that people should feel that decisions which vitally affect them are taken close to home, where they can exercise influence, rather than thousands of miles away. 
The newspaper article went on: 
Like so many things that  Mr Dunstan  has said this week, his changing views of Australia 's parliamentary system will give  Mr Whitlam  something to think about. 
This has been the change in the attitude of the Labor Premier of South Australia who can see what this centralist Government is trying to do and who has openly, on so many occasions, criticised this Government for its centralised approach and its miserly attitude towards the States. 
One also has to look at what the Minister for Transport in South Australia,  Mr Virgo,  has said regarding grants to local councils. He has openly condemned the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and this Government for the way in which they are going about certain things in order to get control of what he considers should be a State authority. I was interested to read the headline in today's 'Australian' which states: 'Dunstan offers 'to drop new taxes'. The article states: 
South Australia's planned consumer taxes on petrol and cigarettes to raise another $2 3 m a year will be dropped immediately if the Federal Government gives enough help to the States. 
Here is one instance in which the Premier of South Australia himself is prepared to admit that the taxes that he proposes to implement are not good taxes but that he has no alternative to introducing them if the Federal Government will not give the States more money. So I hope that tonight in the mini-Budget that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  brings down we may see a little more consideration given to the States and a little less emphasis placed upon the socialistic ideologies of this Government which have led Australia down the tragic road of high inflation and led to the creation of a state of insecurity in the Australian community. I hope that this Government will show enough common sense and responsibility to realise that for 23 years Australia was run on policies that developed this country. We had development and prosperity which were the envy of so many countries. But today, because of the socialist policies of this Government, we have reached the stage not simply of stagflation but of stagnation. It will take a long while to get Australia moving again. I hope that at least this Government will put aside its corny politics and get back to a bit of economic wit and wisdom and try to do something to lead Australia along the road which it should still be taking instead of the road it has been taking for the last 2 years. 
I rise to speak briefly on this Committee. I do so primarily to express by concern and criticism of the attitude of the present Federal Government in foreign affairs. This Government either did not have the courage of its convictions or it was completely misled in regard to the voting at the United Nations on the Palestine Liberation Organisation where Australia abstained from casting its vote. The PLO is regarded not merely by the majority of Australians but, I would say, the majority of the people of the world as none other than a terrorist organisation, an organisation which has done so much harm and brought so much tragedy to so many people. Yet Australia abstained from voting on the issue. Yet in respect of South Africa, Australia went along in supporting South Africa's expulsion from the United Nations. I was very pleased to note that countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States of America and France did veto such a motion. One wonders just where standards are and where double standards are when some countries, particularly Australia, are prepared to support the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations. One wonders what motives were behind such an attitude. I cannot be other than critical of the fact that Australia saw fit to do this. One can be critical of many of the actions taken by the Government of South Africa if one desires to do so in the areas of petty apartheid. But if one looks at the area of separate developments in South Africa - 
For your information,  Senator, there  is petty apartheid and there is also apartheid. There is a big difference between the two. 
If you bothered to find out you might be a bit more enlightened on the whole situation. There is a difference between petty apartheid and apartheid. I am not going to take the time of the Senate to explain but if you want educating come and see me afterwards. Australia itself practises apartheid. We have separate developments in Australia. We practise apartheid ourselves- for example, New Guinea. It is still not independent. New Guinea is still closely associated with Australia. It is still Australia's responsibility. But what is and what has been the situation regarding New Guineans who wish to come to this country for permanent residency? As I have said, there is separate development. I do not disagree with this. We must do all we can to help Papua New Guinea become a mature nation. We must give it all the encouragement and assistance that we can in this area but let us do these things rationally. 
Having said that, one must go further and look at the whole situation relating to the attitude of Australia, particularly that of the present Australian Government, and the way in which we are seen in the eyes of so many countries. There has been criticism and questioning from so many people overseas- 'What are you really doing? Why are you doing this?' Let me refer to South East Asia. Countries in that region have expressed concern at Australia's attitude. We saw this sudden shift with the recognition of China. Let me hurriedly comment that I do not disagree with that. Recognition of China had to come and wisely it was done. But in the process of recognition there was no need to walk all over a country like Taiwan which we have done. It is a country which today this Government is still mercenary enough to trade with but it is a country in which we do not even have a trade commissioner or an attache of any sort representing trade. Therefore these things have to be done through the back door of Hong Kong- double standards again. 
How can we look at these various standards and be critical? We do not even bother to look at our own internal position yet we look at the position in other countries. This Government is prepared not only to criticise but also to condemn South Africa. Australia is completely prepared to ignore the attitudes and activities of the PLO. Yet what is the situation in respect of China? What has been and what is the attitude of the Australian Government towards the genocide that has been practised and is being practised in Tibet? What has been the attitude of this Government? Does this Government reflect upon what Russia did when it rolled over Czechoslovakia when the greatest crime the Czechoslovakians were committing was starting to think for themselves? OK, we overlooked that. I will not condemn the Australian Government for having done that. What I do condemn is the double standards that come into this. They are the things that concern me. 
To go a step further, let us look at the tragic attitude that we adopted in relation to the baltic States. These are the things that concern me. If we are going to have a standard let us have a standard and stand by it. But let us not have 2 standards whereby, on the one hand, we are prepared not only to criticise but also to condemn some countries and, on the other hand, we overlook what has been done and are prepared just to ignore all that is happening and let them go their own way. These are the things that concern me today as regards our present foreign policy. 
I present the following petition from 22 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a Capital Gains Tax applying as another Death Duty is unjust in its application and catastrophic in its effect. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Capital Gains Tax be not levied in addition to Death Duties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Following the Prime Minister's statement on the economy last night I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate if he can say why the State governments were overlooked and not given extra financial assistance, particularly as they have been forced to introduce new tax measures which are regarded both as bad politics and inflationary. 
I wish to make my position clear. I do support the concept of the assistance and encouragement of social welfare and community development throughout this country. But there are areas in the Australian Assistance Plan that concern me. I should make only brief reference to some of these because both  Senator Baume  and  Senator Greenwood  have dealt with some of them. I refer particularly to the publicity for the establishment of these regional councils and also the complement and structure of the councils. There is another area which causes me very grave concern: We have elected groups already established in this country which are being bypassed. 1 refer to State governments and local government bodies. I question why it is necessary to set up what I believe could eventually develop into a fourth tier of government, because I can see this possibly and probably happening. I would like the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  to assure us that this will not be the case. I question why the State governments and local government authorities are being bypassed. No government authority is closer to the people and the problems of people than local government bodies. They are elected bodies. A broad representation of the local community sits on these bodies. They know the problems and the need for development of certain areas of social development in their own community. Yet in the Estimates this year some $6m is to be appropriated for the interim period of the Australian Assistance Plan and this money is to be allocated on a basis which nobody knows because no guidelines are set down. If there are I have not found them and I would like the Minister to give them to me if he could. 
We basically have a single line entry and this Parliament has no opportunity to research in any way or to get any detail as to how that money will be spent. There are broad guidelines, yes, but they are very broad guidelines. Our responsibility as parliamentarians is to look at the Estimates but we cannot in any way assess where responsibility really lies or find out where this money is to be spent or at the end of 12 months know how that money has been spent. This causes me great concern. We have an appropriation of $6m this year. One wonders how much it will be next year and the following year. At the same time we have no opportunity of really determining as we should how that money has been spent throughout the community. I still wonder why this Government has not been prepared, within the concept of the Australian Assistance Plan, to work through local governments. They are responsible bodies comprising people who are responsible to those in their local area and people who could not be accused as a group of taking one side or the other or of using certain funds, as has been suggested today, for the benefit of certain political ideologies. 
This brings me to another point. I ask the Minister whether he can give to me or to the Senate an assurance that finance is not given or is not likely to be given to any particular political group. I put it in general terms to be fair. This Plan does leave the way open for this type of thing and this is why I raise these questions today. We have bodies already established in this country and accepted as responsible bodies by the community and elected by the community. Yet we are going to completely by-pass them in a new form of social and community welfare development. 
-Yes, but I am asking the Minister whether he will give me an assurance on these points. I recall that  Senator Devitt  mentioned that these bodies will have a great deal of autonomy unto themselves. Questions have already been raised and fair answers have been given by the Minister regarding the publicity given to the establishment of some of these councils and I have gone on to raise further questions. I hope we as a Senate can get clarification of these points. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of imported heavy crude oil is needed to meet Australia's requirements for the by-products of heavy crude, including bituminous products for road construction. 
What are Australia's current imports of this type of heavy crude and how do those tonnages compare with Australia's minimum requirements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Which school in South Australia will receive the $ 1 5,000 allocated to that State out of a total further grant of $5.3 million made to non-Government schools throughout Australia. 
How many applications for further grants were received from South Australia. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows his answer to me yesterday, when I asked him why the Federal Government did not give more financial assistance to the States. I now ask him: Did the Premier of South Australia not inform this Government that he was prepared to withdraw his proposed new taxeswhich, as I said yesterday, are highly inflationaryif the Federal Government granted extra financial assistance to South Australia and the other States? Was this proposal of the Premier of South Australia given consideration and why were the States overlooked? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister stated that Australia has fifteen years of petroleum supplies in reserve, based on present known quantities. 
What was the basis of the Minister's calculation. 
Did the Minister take into account the problem of maintaining present production rates when some wells and fields are eighty to eighty-five per cent depleted, and when a similar position applies to the extraction of condensates in gas fields. 
Will the change in the Government's resources policy encourage the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in both on and off-shore areas of Australia. 
My question, addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows the economic statement of the Prime Minister last week and  Mr Clyde  Cameron's statement yesterday. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister made it clear to the Prices Justification Tribunal that it must take it easy on the aspect of company profits? Is the Prime Minister's attitude to be taken as meaning that the Government will both support and encourage companies which recently have had recommendations from the Prices Justifications Tribunal to appeal to the Prices Justification Tribunal in the expectancy that that body will show a greater appreciation of the need for real profitability and, as a consequence, may recommend higher increases in prices for those applicants? 
-This Bill is without doubt one of the most important pieces of legislation that have come before this Parliament because it deals with the basic structure of our society, that is, the institution of marriage and the family. I have heard it said on many occasions and repeated in this Senate that marriage according to law in Australia is the union of man and woman to the exclusion of all others, voluntarily entered into for life and not to be entered into lightly or  inadvisedly.  On that basis we can accept that marriage is a very serious step for anyone to take. For that reason, as a community or society we cannot take marriage lightly or in any way do anything that will affect the institution of marriage or its stability in our society. 
In the first place I must say that I support certain aspects of this Bill which was introduced by  Senator Murphy.  I do so because there is a need for some change in our divorce laws. But I want to make it perfectly clear as a layman, but one who has been associated with the problems of our community, one who is aware of the tragedy of divorce for many people who have approached me with their problems since I have been in this chamber, that one thing that I want to be sure of is that whilst we make the procedures of divorce perhaps easier in some ways, we do not in any way give the appearance of trying to make it easier for people to marry. That is one thing that we must avoid at all costs. In no way must we give an indication that we are weakening the institution of marriage or discouraging respect for marriage. Nor should we discourage the acceptance of permanency of the institution of marriage. 
-I shall come to that in a moment. I have said that we must accept divorce in our community. Many people in this world have entered into a marriage contract, firmly convinced and genuinely believing that the marriage would have permanency and happiness, but things have not worked out that way and finally they believe that they have reached the situation in which they are completely incompatible and that the only solution for them ultimately is divorce. So we must accept divorce within our community.  Senator Wheeldon  interjected a few moments ago so I inform him that I do riot ever want to see marriage accepted in our community as something that could be a short term expediency, something from which one can easily opt out. There should be no situation in which divorce proceedings are regarded as an opt-out clause of the marriage contract. That is something that I do not want to see and I think most people would support me in that. 
I would like to see it made more difficult for people to marry. If we were able to make it more difficult for people to marry, if people entering the marriage contract could have a better understanding of the problems associated with marriage and realised that it was not all easy street, it would be of great help to them. It may appear to them when they are in the first flush of marriage that marriage is all easy street, but eventually they reach the rough spots and trials, as probably ail married couples have done on occasions. The main thing is that people should have the opportunity to receive counselling prior to the marriage. That would be of great help to them and probably would prevent many of the divorces that now take place. 
I do not propose to deal in detail with many aspects of the Bill because, frankly, I believe that this is a measure to be dealt with in Committee rather than during a second reading debate. Many honourable senators have spoken to the Bill and dealt in depth with so many areas. Tonight I propose to speak about marriage counselling because I feel that this is an area that is not fully covered in the law proposed by  Senator Murphy.  I make the suggestion because people then would have a greater understanding and realisation of what marriage is all about, instead of entering into it lightly as some people might. I say that not in condemnation of anybody but because so many people have not had the opportunity and advantage of marriage counselling prior to marriage. I have discussed this aspect with many clerics and people associated with family counselling in my State of South Australia. These people agreed with me that this is one area to which greater emphasis could be given. I am very much aware that many clerics of various religions made the point wherever possible of having discussions with people before they marry. They consider there should be discussions and counselling on what they consider could be the problems of marriage or the pitfalls into which other people have fallen during their marriage. I think this is excellent. 
I only hope that the Government will make greater opportunity available for people and will give greater encouragement to people to take advantage of marriage counselling before entering into the contract of marriage. In speaking of counselling I am referring to the opportunity which should be available for persons with experience and expertise in this field to give effective marriage counselling to people before they marry. I am certain that if this were done it would be of great assistance in many marriages which otherwise, tragically, would finish on the rocks. Another important period and one which is overlooked in the Bill is the opportunity for any married couple to receive sound marriage counselling at any period of their marriage. 
No doubt all honourable senators have seen or experienced the situation where the small problems of married life build up until they become big issues, where abrasions become greater until finally they are so magnified that couples feel the only way out is divorce. During this period deep scars have been inflicted by one married partner on the other. On many occasions that situation could have been avoided if only they could have gone somewhere for sound advice and had pointed out to them various aspects which possibly would overcome in the early stages a situation that tragically finishes up as divorce or separation. One of the tragedies in divorce is the fact that children are often involved. It is bad enough for couples who have no children to become completely incompatible and finally to be divorced, but it is an absolute tragedy when children are involved. These are the ones who suffer throughout. This is one area where I think something could be done by this Bill. Perhaps there could be an amendment to provide for greater opportunity for family counselling by experts. This could well be brought within the concept of the Family Law Bill. I commend the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for its report and for many of the recommendations and comments by the Committee on the proposed legislation. 
I was very encouraged to see that in one area of the report the Committee referred to marriage counselling. In paragraph 28 on page 14 of the report the Committee said: 
A disadvantage of Part III of the existing Matrimonial Causes Act is that the provisions operate only when the parties have actually instituted proceedings, which in the professional experience of members of the Committee is at a time when the attitudes of the parties to the marriage are most hardened against reconciliation. 
On page 15 the report continued: 
The Committee emphasises that provisions must be drawn in such a way as to encourage parties whose marriages or family lives are in difficulty to come and take advantage of the marriage counselling facilities of the Family Court at any time - 
I emphasise the words ' at any time '-  regardless of whether or not proceedings under the Bill are contemplated or have been initiated. 
I think this is one of the most important areas because, whilst this Bill sets out to do many things to streamline the procedures of divorce, not enough emphasis has been placed upon the prevention of divorce. 
I hope that amendments will be moved accordingly. If not, I will move an amendment myself because I feel this is an important part of the proposed legislation. I think it is far better to prevent a divorce if at all possible than to come in with a cure at the finish. I appreciate the fact that the legislation contains proposals whereby, right until the last stage, if there is any opportunity to repair the marriage that opportunity must be taken. But I repeat that at this stage it is becoming very late. The parties have suffered the bitterness, the abrasions, the deep scarring and the unhappiness, particularly where children are involved. That is one of the most unfortunate aspects of any unhappy marriage. It is bad enough that the mature couple- the parents- are involved in such a situation but it is a tragedy when children are involved in such an environment when they could have so much more out of their early lives if they had had the benefit of a happy home. 
I think many aspects of this Bill are very good. There are many aspects which I question at the present moment and there are many aspects that I am not prepared to support at this stage. I will probably vote against them or, alternatively, support them with some amendment. I will not go into detail now because I will have an opportunity to do so in the Committee stage. One thing that concerns me greatly- I relate this again to the no-fault aspects and the concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage- is the period of time before proceedings commence. At present I have a reasonably open mind on this because I appreciate that if the time is made too short- I refer to the comment  Senator Wheeldon  made to me when I first started speaking- we will not be encouraging permanency in marriage if people can see an easy way out in a short space of time. On the other hand, if we do extend the period of time for too long we will perhaps create unnecessary unhappiness. So I want to hear more in debate before I finally make up my mind regarding the period of time. At this stage I am not committed. The one qualification I make is that I will do all I can to make sure that the institution of marriage remains as one of the pillars of our society. 
I support the no-fault aspect of the legislation because I feel that the present Act contains too many aspects involving fault that create much bitterness, hatred, the airing of dirty linen and domestic problems which are dragged through the courts and become public. This is what happens, maybe not in the proceedings but at later stages as a result of those proceedings. More importantly, I support the no-fault aspect because the dragging out publicly of the mire and dirty linen affects young children who are going to school where everybody knows everybody's business. Unfortunately these children can be badly hurt and embarrassed by the exposure of the traumas and the tragedies of their family life over which they have no control. They are the sufferers. 
So I support the aspect of irretrievable breakdown. I am pleased to say that, even though it is an area of controversy, it appears- from what I have gathered from the people who have corresponded with me, from people to whom I have spoken, from welfare workers and so many other people- that the great majority of people support the aspect of irretrievable breakdown. I back this up with a statement by a man whom I consider a very important cleric in Australia. He said: 
The concept of 'the irretrievable breakdown of marriage' (section 26) was recommended to the British Parliament by the Church of England some years ago. This does away with much of the deviousness and the dishonesty of current divorce proceedings. Who is able- other than God- to determine the measure of guilt in the failure of a marriage? Invariably both parties are to blame. It is the rare case when one party is so irresponsible that they can be clearly labelled as THE guilty party. In the same way many divorces on the grounds of adultery are the result of exceedingly doubtful practices of proof and obtaining evidence. It would be good to have these out of our system. 
As I said earlier, I do not intend at this stage to deal with many of the aspects or the mechanics of the Bill. I have risen tonight to point out one area which I feel has not been covered fully in this debate, and that is the area of counselling. Again I refer to the importance of counselling in the pre-marital situation and in the post-marital situation. It should be available from the moment people are married to give them such assistance and guidance as can be given. Counsellors who are experts in their field should be freely available to give guidance. I feel that it is far better to put emphasis on this area, to make sure we do all we can to prevent divorce, than to lay the emphasis mainly upon making the procedures of divorce procedurally easier. Those are the reasons why I have spoken tonight. That is all I wish to say at this stage, but I assure the Senate that I will be having much more to say on certain aspects of the Bill in the Committee stage of the debate. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that the Army is occupying homes in the township of Woodside in South Australia when there are vacant homes in the Woodside Army camp area nearby? Is it also a fact that young couples are being refused occupancy of these homes in Woodside, which, incidentally, are very scarce, and are being told the Army needs the houses when at the same time the locals are also being told that the Army intends to leave the Woodside Army camp? Can the Minister say whether the Army intends moving out of the Woodside area? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration recall my asking him earlier this year whether he would compel people applying for unemployment assistance to produce a birth certificate for identification in order to overcome the problem of some people obtaining more than one unemployment benefit? What guidelines are given to departments on tests for eligibility for unemployment benefit and what proof of identity is required? Will the Minister make available any such guidelines? 

 -Mr President, could I ask a supplementary question? Can the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs say whether the Australian Government intends to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does the Government intend formally to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation? If so, what is to be the basis of that recognition? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that a member of his staff was a senior member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? If so is he still a member of ASIO and what position does he hold on the Minister's staff? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do so following the answer that he gave me yesterday to a question that I asked. Does the Leader of the Government have a liaison officer or a communications officer or some such person, who was previously a senior member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, working with his office? If so, is he still a member of ASIO and what is the reason for having such an officer? 
My question is directed to the Manager of Government Business in the Senate because I consider that this matter is both important and very urgent. My question follows the recent disclosure that a South Australian,  Mr Mavrinac,  while holidaying in Yugoslavia with his 2-year-old daughter, has been gaoled for 6 months for criticising the Yugoslav Government. I ask, as I did in July this year of the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What assistance and protection does the Australian Government afford its nationals when visiting countries in which they were born? In particular, I ask: What is the Government doing in relation to  Mr Mavrinac  who is a well respected South Australian and has held Australian citizenship for some 1 1 years? As  Mr M avrinac  has already been in gaol for one month, I ask: Why has he not been released and returned to Australia with his small daughter? 
I was very interested in the comments of  Senator Everett  when he said that no doubt the Opposition had been influenced by vested interests. I want to refute that statement. This is not the case. The Opposition respects the fact that the people of this country have a vested interest in what happens in the area of communication, whether it is in radio, in television or in the Press or any of the media. We do and should continue to cherish the freedoms of this country. At the same time we should never allow them to be eroded in any way. Control itself should be exercised only by laws, but within those laws we can still have our rights and our freedoms. In having and applying those rights and freedoms we should be able to live within the law and to be protected by the law. One of the main freedoms in this country is our freedom of speech. That is something of which we have always been able to boast proudly, and I trust of which we in this nation always can boast. At the same time we should never put it at risk in any way, because as far as I am concerned, God help this country when we no longer have freedom of speech. We have seen what has happened in other countries. We have seen the tragedies of other countries where people have even been suppressed because they were not allowed the freedom to thinkCzechoslovakia for example. This Bill gives indications of eroding those freedoms. 
I appreciate that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in his second reading speech stated that the Government has made certain amendments to this Bill. The Government has been made aware of the necessity for those amendments because in the other place the Opposition made it clear and spelt out very firmly the grave areas- I emphasise the word 'grave'- of concern in the proposed legislation. There is so much concern, in fact, that it was made clear by  Mr Killen  in leading the debate for the Opposition in the other place that the Opposition would be opposing the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The Opposition did that in the other place but by the sheer brutality of numbers it was not successful. He indicated at the same time that we, the Opposition in this place, would oppose the second reading. I was pleased to hear  Senator Hall  say today that he will be supporting us in our opposition to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
The Minister made certain amendments to the Bill but they do not go far enough. There are still many areas within it whereby there will be control by the proposed Authority in areas that I consider are completely unnecessary and wrong. Further, the Minister himself will still have quite a say by way of ministerial discretion or direction. There is too much erosion of freedom. We will be placed in a situation where there will be unnecessary interference in the freedom of operation of television and radio. 
We do not disagree that there should be rules and standards. The broadcasting and television stations also agree with this because they want their guidelines and they want to know the exact area in which they can work. Having said that, how much further does the Government want to go? This Bill does not clarify or set out the guidelines. As  Senator Everett  said earlier when he was criticising our Party when in government, we had certain regulations and certain guidelines for the media. But this Bill does not stop there, it goes much further. The original intention of this Bill was to provide so much ministerial control that one could state firmly that the Minister would have had total control. Let me hasten to add that I have great respect for the Minister for the Media. I do not think for a moment that he would be a man who would abuse that control, but the Minister in charge of this portfolio at present will not always be the Minister in charge of it and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to legislate in such a way that the rights of the people and freedom of speech are protected. We cannot work on the immediate position and say that we trust the integrity of the Minister in charge of this legislation and the operation of the Act. This matter goes far beyond that; it goes far beyond personalities. Personalities change but the Act goes on. That is our view about this legislation. 
Within the Bill various things are not defined. Mention is made of rules, standards, determinations, directions, orders, conditions, regulations, requirements. I cannot find a definition for any of those words yet they are in the Bill and they relate to grey areas as far as I am concerned. I would be pleased if the Minister could give me an explanation or a definition later on. These things need to be spelled out but that has not happened in any way at all. 
I refer to clause 6 (b) of the Bill which seeks to amend the principal Act. That paragraph refers to 'programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the determination'. This is an area whereby the proposed Authority can have quite a deal of control over programming. This concerns me greatly because the process of programming takes in such things as news and films for television. What can happen in this area? There can be influence, persuasion and direction by the proposed Authority over the broadcasting and television stations as to what will be shown and when it is shown. There are such things as peak viewing times. Perhaps the Government could say that it never denied a station the right to show a certain program but it could move that program from peak time and have it shown in another time slot. 
Once there is interference in programming the Government is doing more than just having a say in the operation; it is interference in basic freedom. The Government also would be interfering in the efficiency of the operation and probably in the monetary return of a company. This is allimportant. This Bill refers to commercial television and broadcasting stations, not the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We are talking purely of commercial stations and they get no financial assistance from the revenue. I am not criticising the ABC for this. We accept the ABC's operations in radio and television as being individual and entirely separate and its expenditures are met from general revenue, but where do the commercial stations go when they run down their liquidity? The only way they can operate is as efficient businesses, and if they do not do so they will not be businesses much longer. Interference by the proposed Authority or by a Minister could place a company in dire financial straits, be it a radio company or a television company. I am referring now to the business side of the matter, not just the aspect of the right of freedom of speech. 
One other thing was said by  Senator Everett  today. I think he expressed probably why the Government is keen to have this legislation. He referred to the monopoly of mass communications. If I am not correctly quoting him perhaps he will correct me. He referred to tripartite control of the Press, radio and television by one man or one company. I think that may be at the base of this legislation. There is a fear, a suspicion, that eventually the media will come under the control of one man or a monopoly, or perhaps one or two groups. What is proposed in this legislation is that there be a transfer of control from that one man, that monopoly or that group to the Government so that the Government has the monopoly and the control. I do not want to see a monopoly or an individual have control in this area or in any other commercial area in this country. I do not support the concept of monopolisation. But having said that, I do not want to see this Government in charge of the media of this country. God help this country if we ever reach the situation that applies in some other countries where the government controls communications. I do not want to see government control over the Press, television and radio, in fact the whole of the media of this country, because it virtually would set up a total propaganda machine for itself. 
I refer to other areas of this Bill and draw the attention of honourable senators to clause 6 (e) relating to a proposed new sub-section which states: 
Rules determined by the Authority in pursuance of paragraph (e) of sub-section (3) may include requirements, being requirements approved by the Minister, with respect to the broadcasting of programs or with respect to the televising of programs that are, as defined in the determination, programs of Australian origin. 
I would be one of the first to support the encouragement of more Australian participation in the development of the arts in this country. I think this is an excellent concept. It is something which was started by John Gorton when he was Prime Minister of this country and it has been carried on by this Government. I give the whole concept my full support but I am not prepared to give the Minister the right to say what will and what will not be the content of television programs, be they of Australian origin or be they of some other origin, because I think that such a decision should go further than one man. I will not support this concept even though I emphasise again that I do support the concept of the encouragement of the development of the arts in this country and of greater participation by Australians and the showing of more Australian programs within our radio and television system. Developments along these lines are taking place. 
Today  Senator Everett  again made great play on section 99 of the principal Act which is dealt with in clause 13 of the Minister's Bill. Here again we are dealing with the situation of the Minister wanting to take some control for himself. Clause 1 3 of the Bill proposes that section 99 of the principal Act be amended by omitting the words 'standards determined by the Board' and substituting other words. These words which it is proposed to substitute give further power to the Authority, which indirectly comes back to the Minister because the Minister's amendments relate to clause 6 of the Bill, or section 16 of the principal Act. The Minister's amendments are related directly only to paragraph (b) of proposed new sub-section (3B), but they leave open some of the other areas that are not covered by regulation or order of this Parliament. So there are situations in relation to which one could find loopholes in the Act. 
Clause 14 of the Bill deals with section 100 of the principal Act, which is concerned with advertising. The Bill proposes an amendment to subsection (4), which reads: 
A licensee shall comply with such standards as the Board determines in relation to the broadcasting or television of advertisements. 
The Bill proposes to delete this sub-section completely. Sub-section (5) of section 100 of the Act reads: 
A licensee shall not broadcast or televise advertisements on a Sunday except in such manner and in accordance with such conditions as the Board determines. 
The Minister proposes by his Bill to delete the words 'on a Sunday'. If the Minister's proposal is accepted we will finish up with a very powerful sub-section of section 100 which will read: 
A licensee shall not broadcast or televise advertisements except in such manner and in accordance with such conditions as the Board determines. 
I want to return now to the area of commercialism. This Bill deals with commercial radio and television stations. Commercial radio and television stations live by advertisements. Under the Bill we find that the Authority will have a sayand a big say- in relation to the advertisements that are broadcast by the radio and television stations. Advertisements are the jugular vein of the various companies that run the radio and television stations. The Bill proposes an interference whereby these companies- let me be quite honest about this- could be slowly strangled if the Government and the personalities on the Authority were ruthless enough. If they wanted to go one step further- I am not saying that this will happen, but let us put it on the line because it could happen- we would then have the situation where the Government, having squeezed these companies down one by one, could pick them off. What would it do with them? It would take them in and nationalise them. 

 - Senator, if a company runs short of money and goes broke, it has had its chips. One only has to look at what is happening in the United Kingdom at the moment with its socialist Government; one by one big industries are slowly being bled to death. The Government picks up the tab and pays 40 per cent, 50 per cent or 60 per cent of the company's worth and it gets control. That is what the game is all about. That is an inherent danger in this proposed legislation. That is another reason why I will not support it and why my Party will not support it. I repeat that it is no good saying that these things will not happen. It is no good saying that the legislation could lend itself to certain situations such as the one I have described but that that is not its intention. It is no good the Government saying: 'We do not intend to do that'. We have already seen the Government's attempt in regard to the Australian Film Commission. It tried to step in and provide not only for ministerial control of content of Australian films and short films but also for the Minister to have the ability to direct a picture theatre to show certain films. In other words, the Minister would have had such control that he would have been able to set up his own propaganda machine from production right through to distribution. That is one instance. Again I am not saying that it would have happened, but the proposed legislation contained the power for it to happen. 
We have the same sort of power sitting in this Broadcasting and Television Bill. I repeat that it is no good saying that these things might not happen. The Pipeline Authority Bill was before the Senate not very long ago. Unfortunately we in the Opposition did not have the numbers to prevent it from becoming legislation but we pleaded with others who, collectively with us, would have made up sufficient numbers to block that legislation. We failed and the Government carried the day. The Minister in charge of the Bill was not concerned about the clauses in the legislation about which we were concerned. He said that what we feared would never happen. What has happened? Because of the interference of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  under that legislation it has been a disaster for this country. He has interfered from the northwest of Western Australia to the Redcliffe project in South Australia. One could go on, but I use that instance as an example. I refer to the recent move by the South Australian Government to provide for government interference in the media in South Australia. Governments are prone to do these things. We have seen the Film Corporation proposals and this television and radio Bill. Are the media next? My job as a member of this Parliament, as a member of this Senate, is to protect the rights and the interests of the people of this country. In the process of protecting those rights- I refer to the freedom of speech in this country- I have no alternative but to accept my responsibilities and to oppose this legislation. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory: Was Miss Morosi allocated a government one-bedroom flat? If so, what is the reason for her being given priority over applicants who have waited 6 years and would-be applicants who cannot get on the list? What real hardships does she suffer compared with the less well paid sections of our community? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory whether he, in the interests of open government and in order to clarify aspects surrounding Miss Morosi 's application for a flat, will table the file that relates to her application. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to my previous question of 5 December, when the Leader of the Government said that he would refer to  Mr Bryant,  the Minister for the Capital Territory, the question of whether or not he would table the file concerning Miss Morosi 's application for a government flat. Will  Mr Bryant  table this file, and if not, why not? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does he recall my asking some 8 days ago, on 3 December, what the Government was doing to protect its nationals when visiting the countries in which they were born and in particular what the Government was doing in relaton to a  Mr Mavrinac,  an Australian who is currently in gaol in Yugoslavia for criticising the 
Yugoslav Government? Has the Minister any further information on this very important and urgent matter? If not, I ask very genuinely, why not? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether Press reports are correct that the Australian Labor Party conference in Terrigal last week agreed to include in the Party's platform a clause which in part states sympathetic consideration of people who for political and other reasons would face danger to life and liberty upon return to their country of origin'. If such reports are correct, will the Minister for Labor and Immigration grant asylum to 2 Czechoslovakian seamen, Jaroslav Reinisch and Jan Janik, who appealed for asylum in Australian early last year? Is the Minister aware that his indecision on this matter is causing great stress to these 2 unfortunate people who know only too well that if they are sent home they will face long gaol sentences or even worse? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I do so because his amendment, if agreed to, would mean that questions may be directed to chairmen of committees only upon notice. The situation will not arise where ad hoc or on the spur of the moment questions are directed to a  chairman  of a committee. This in itself is important because one can get a chain reaction of one question following upon another question. This could place the  chairman  of a committee in an awkward position. I think the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson gives strength to proposed new standing order 98a. (c) which states:  the  Chairman  shall answer such Questions only on the basis that he answers on behalf of the Committee and not of himself. 
If a question is put on notice the  chairman  has time to look at that question. If he is concerned about it he can discuss it and consult with members of his committee before he gives an answer. 
I think that this is a very important matter because the  chairman  is responsible not only to the committee but to his position as  chairman  of that committee. I think it would be most unfortunate if, in trying to give honourable senators the opportunity of finding out the progress of the workings of a committee, we tended to place the  chairman  and members of the committee in an embarrassing situation. I think the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson strengthens and protects the position of both the  chairman  and members of any committee. 

 - Mr President, I direct my question to you and I ask it as one of the Whips of the Senate who is involved in the calling of divisions. Why, when new division bells were being installed inside Parliament House, were not bells with entirely different sounds installed instead of those with similar sounds which make it extremely difficult for senators and members to distinguish between a call for a House of Representatives division and a call for a Senate division? Can further steps be taken to instal a buzzer or bell system so that whether it is a House of Representatives or a Senate call for a division is easily distinguishable? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: What is the reason for the unusual arrangement of the Parliament sitting for 4 weeks straight and then recessing for 4 weeks at the beginning of a sessional period? Is this arrangement purely to suit the convenience of the Prime Minister and allow him to go overseas at the end of the 4-week sitting period? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to statements that excessive Government expenditure is running at some 43 per cent higher than last year and has created a deficit in excess of $2,500m. I ask the Minister: Does his reply to  Senator Withers  this morning mean that the Government is not prepared to cut back government expenditure to reduce this great deficit? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether it is correct that the Federal Government intends to impose fines of $50,000 on wholesalers and distributors who sell seafood which has a mercury content of more than .05 parts per million. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government has set a level of one part per million? Has he seen reported statements by  Mr Broomhill,  the South Australian Minister of Environment and Conservation, that the Federal Government's anti-mercury seafood laws will place the fishing industry in danger of collapse and remove fish from most Australian diets? I ask the Minister whether he will arrange a meeting with the South Australian Minister in an endeavour to resolve this situation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It follows the statement by the Prime Minister that he did not want to hear any more garbage about unemployment being caused by tariff cuts. Is this statement backed by those previously employed in the textile, footwear, clothing and other labour intensive industries affected by tariff cuts? Does the Prime Minister's recent statement mean that the structural assistance scheme which was introduced to compensate those workers declared redundant as a result of tariff cuts will now be abandoned? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. What is the position in relation to donations to building funds of private schools? Will these donations be allowable tax deductions in future? If not, is this not another move in the Government's discrimination against independent schools? 
We have just listened to a highly emotional speech from  Senator Hall  who has accused the Opposition of turning things upside down. Unfortunately, for the last 10 minutes there has been a tirade of abuse and personal vendettas against individual senators on this side of the chamber. In my short time in the Senate this was a rarity until recent times. I regret very much that debate in the Senate has been lowered to that level. I say that with all sincerity because the Senate has always prided itself on the way in which debates have taken place. There have been cross-fires from either side of the chamber. But, as I say, these have been rarities and in the main have dealt with the subject under discussion. I wish to return to the Bill before the Chair tonight. 
This is not the first time that the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill has been before the Senate. In fact, it is the fourth time it has been discussed in this chamber. On the first 2 occasions that it was presented to the Senate it was Part III of another Bill, the seas and submerged lands legislation. On the second occasion on which that Bill, including this Part III, came before the Senate we in the Opposition amended the Bill in the Committee stage to delete that Part III from the Bill. We objected to the mining code, as that Part III of the Bill was called. We did not agree with what was being attempted by the Government in that respect. We did support the Government in its seas and submerged lands legislation. I think that all honourable senators are aware of the fact that we supported it. The issue on the seas and submerged lands legislation was primarily a matter of where sovereignty lay on the off-shore areas of Australia, that is, whether it lay totally with the Federal Government from the low water mark right out to the edge of the continental shelf, whether the States had sovereignty from the low water mark or the high water mark to the 3-mile limit and the Commonwealth took over, or just where the sovereignty lay in toto. 
This has been a contentious matter which remained unresolved for quite some time. There was no way in which it could be resolved other than by a decision of the High Court. There was no way that the High Court could deal with this until such time as there was a genuine challenge. Hence it was necessary to reach a situation in which the Federal Government would lay claim to all of the off-shore areas of Australia and give the States the opportunity to litigate against the Federal Government through the High Court and finally have the situation resolved. This is the situation we have reached at the present timethat is, the matter is now before the High Court. 
I wish to refer to a report of a Senate committee which followed previous legislation that dealt with the petroleum industry in the off-shore areas of Australia. I refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. One of the conclusions of the Committee dealt with this unresolved issue of where sovereignty lay in the coastal areas of Australia. Incidentally, this Committee engaged in a great deal of inquiry and met for some 3Vi years. I quote from one of the conclusions in the Committee report: 
That, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
We have been referring to the domestic problem of the off-shore areas. One has to go much further than that. We referred to the international aspect of this which again the Committee reported on.  Senator Webster  on a previous occasion referred the Senate to this aspect in debate. I refer to some of these matters and quote again from the report: 
The question of whether the Commonwealth or the States has the responsibility within the Australian constitutional framework for the exercise of rights arising or the performance of obligations accepted under the International Convention on the Continental Shelf and under the Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone is undecided. Questions of the same character exist with respect to the rights and obligations under other international conventions to which Australia is a party. 
Accepting that the Commonwealth Government has the responsibility in the international community for actions taken and things done in the off-shore waters of Australia, the unresolved point is whether in the Australian community the Commonwealth or the States have the responsibility. Having regard to what Justices of the High Court have saidand all witnesses who gave evidence on this aspect generally concurred- it would appear that the Commonwealth has the constitutional power to legislate under its external affairs power to give effect to international obligations. But it is generally regarded as an open question whether the Commonwealth may successfully claim that 'rights' or 'powers'- as distinct from duties or obligations- accruing to Australia under international conventions will entitle it to legislate to give effect to them. If they do so, it would mean that in significant and, possibly, expanding areas the Commonwealth heads of power would become more extensive than the constitutional provisions expressly contemplate- and, consequentially, reduce the exclusive area of State authority. 
Honourable senators can see from that report of the Senate Committee that it was necessary also on that basis that the situation should no longer remain unresolved. This is one of the main reasons why we on this side support the Government in its legislation regarding the seas and submerged land. 
The mining code, as it was then known and which is now called the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill, is an entirely different proposition. It has been suggested by Government supporters that what this Federal Government wishes to do is to get a uniform code for mining in the offshore areas of Australia. I accept that that is one of the things that this Government wishes to do. But it wishes to go much further than that. It is only a small part of what this Government intends to do. The intention is clearly shown by a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  in the second reading speech when the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill first came into the Senate. He stated: 
This Bill provides a mining code being the legal framework for the exploration and exploitation of our off-shore minerals resources in exercise of the Australian Government's sovereignty, proclaimed through the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973. 
He continued further and at the end of his second reading speech the Minister stated:  . . the passage of this Bill will be a further significant state in the exercise of the Australian Government s sovereignty in respect ofthe off-shore mining industry. 
That clearly shows the intentions of this Government which are to take a total claim and right to ali the seabed areas of Australia, with no respect whatsoever for any of the States, and to continue on its way and to do exactly as it wishes to do. I can appreciate that some honourable senators on the other side might say that it is not clearly what the Government intends to do; it is not spelt out that way. It is. We have had examples on many occasions of the intention of this Government. We have seen it clearly expressed in the lack of co-operation on the part of this Federal Government with its centralist approaches from Canberra in the way it abrogates any co-operation with, or respect whatsoever for, the State parliaments of Australia. 
With regard to the challenge that is being made in the High Court at present, the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  a Labor Premier, revealed in the Press on 5 July 1974 that South Australia also would take up the challenge as to where authority lay in the off-shore areas of Australia. As reported in the South Australian Advertiser',  Mr Dunstan  suggested to the Commonwealth Government that it should invite the States to join in a test case in the High Court which could be done co-operatively- I emphasise the words 'could be done cooperatively'but the Commonwealth Government had refused the suggestion. That statement was made by a Labor Premier. The Commonwealth Government was not prepared even to cooperate with the States to obtain clarification of where authority lay in the off-shore areas. This Government is not prepared to co-operate with the States in any way at all with regard to minerals exploration or exploitation on-shore or offshore. It is not prepared to co-operate with the States in any way with regard to the exploration for or exploitation of petroleum. 
During the past month we have seen the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  do all he can to frustrate and, if possible, to erode the States' authority and, wherever possible, to dictate terms to the States. This Bill will be no exception because the intention of the Federal Government is clear. The intention is not to cooperate with the States in any way. If this legislation were to become law we would finish up with a duplication of mining administrations. That situation should be avoided; and State Mines Department who do an excellent job, used, as in the off-shore oil exploration. I wish to quote again from the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. The Committee dealt with this aspect of duplication. In another of the Committee's conclusions the report states: 
The submissions on behalf ofthe States and on behalf of the Commonwealth Department of National Development have stressed the desirability of utilising the services, personnel and expertise of the existing States Mines Departments. Undoubtedly the minimising of costs and avoidance of duplication are factors of weight in favour of the system which has been devised. 
The system that had been devised was a system whereby there was co-operative federalism and the State Mines Departments were being used, but it was a joint exercise between the States and the Commonwealth Government. The report of the Committee continues: 
It also permits a degree of integration of the on-shore mining operations with off-shore operations. 
This would apply to mining as well as to petroleum. The report continues: 
. and, possibly of greater significance, the local administration in the States will facilitate rather than hinder the placement and development of the auxiliary land-based operations of the off-shore exploration and exploitation. 
That is a quote from the report of the Senate Select Committee that went into these matters in depth. The Committee was composed of senators from the various parties in the Senate. So there is no political bias whatsoever in those conclusions; but the conclusions were reached after a great depth of inquiry by the Committee. 
I wish to return to the attitude of this Government to the States. We can look at what has happened on the north-west shelf of Western Australia where the interference of the Federal Minister,  Mr Connor,  has done so much to frustrate development and exploitation. A great volume of gas has already been discovered. There may be liquid hydrocarbons there- nobody knows- but we do know that there has been great discouragement of exploration and a frustration of the exploitation of what has already been found because of the attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy who is backed to the hilt by the present Government. In my State of South Australia for 2 years there have been discussions about the establishment of a huge petrochemical industry at Redcliff. We have seen the frustrations of a State Labor Parliament led by Premier Dunstan reach a stage that the Parliament of South Australia agreed unanimously to criticise the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy for his interference in the development and construction of the Redcliff project, which today has been put into mothballs and which, if it had not been for the interference, would have now been a going concern. I have cited those 2 examples but we can go even more into this interference and how far this Government will go to obtain maximum powers by this legislation. 
I refer, as  Senator Durack  did this afternoon, to what is happening with regard to the renewal of licences for the exploration for oil and gas in the off-shore areas. Again we are finding frustration. We are finding so much uncertainty on the part of exploration companies that today they are turning their back on Australia. The number of drilling rigs being used today is minimal compared with what it was 2 years ago.  Senator Georges  made the point that this is a result of the great mining boom. 
And the collapse afterwards. I will not accept that. If  Senator Georges  cares to look at the figures that show the number of wells being drilled and the number of wells that are projected, he will find that there has been a great down turn in exploration and, as a result, exploitation in this country because the exploration companies have said: 'You might have potential, but there is potential in other parts of the world and at least there is encouragement in other parts of the world and, more importantly, there is a little bit of credit and respectability and we will not be taken over by the Government'. So many of these companies have gone to our near neighbours. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd was involved in the Bass Strait find, which the Labor Party would like to take over, and no doubt if it gets the chance, it will. No doubt if the Government got the chance it would do so. Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has moved into other areas and expanded as an international company. 
The honourable senator knows where the company has gone as well as I do. It has gone to areas of South East Asia. It has found oil there, and the honourable senator knows it. I will not be drawn away from the subject by  Senator Georges. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order!  Senator Young  will direct his remarks to the Chair. 
Other companies have done exactly the same thing, all because of the attitudes and policies of this Government. 
I have referred to the fact that we will not accept this Government's statement that it is prepared in any way to work with the States. The original petroleum legislation for the off-shore areas was introduced after many years of discussion between the Commonwealth Government and the States. Finally what is termed mirror legislation was drawn up. It was identical legislation which had to be passed in the State Parliament as well as in the Federal Parliament. Prior to that an agreement was made. I wish to quote from the agreement because it shows that the Labor Government completely abrogated it. I refer to the preamble to the agreement. If any honourable senator in this chamber wishes to check, he may. It states: 
Whereas the Governments of the Commonwealth and the States have accordingly agreed to submit to their respective parliaments legislation relating both to the Continental Shelf and to the sea-bed and sub-soil beneath territorial waters and have also signed to co-operate in the administration of the legislation - 
I shall now refer to clause 6 of the agreement. 
The agreement was made in 1968. I cannot give the actual date. It was made after many years of discussion and negotiation between the State parliaments and the Federal government of that time. 
-I will deal with that later. Clause 6 of the agreement states: 
Except in accordance with an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments, a government will not submit to its Parliament a Bill for an Act that would either (a) amend or repeal an Act that is contemplated by the preceding provisions of this part or in any material respect affect the scheme of the legislation that is contemplated by this agreement. 
The first thing we saw when the Bill dealing with the Pipeline Authority was introduced was that this Government completely abrogated that agreement. Clause 39 of the Pipeline Authority Bill completely overrode State authority. The Minister handling the legislation had to admit that to his knowledge there had been no discussion whatsoever between the Federal Government and the State parliaments. Yet this Labor Government was prepared to ride roughshod over the States and to break an agreement with the States on a very important issue. 
I refer again to what the Government will do if this legislation is passed. Under the provisions of the Bill the Minister has extensive powers whereby he can take unto himself directions in so many ways. If the Bill reaches the Committee stage- I hope it will not- no doubt a lot of this could be exposed. We have reached the situation where the Opposition must, as representatives of the States, protect the interests of our States and do all we possibly can to make sure that exploration and exploitation will continue in this country on sensible lines with co-operation between the Federal Government and the States and that the States' shares or responsibilities will not be eroded. I, as a South Australian senator, would be letting down my State if I were to support such legislation. I have a responsibility to my State, as well as to this nation, to make sure that the most effective ways of carrying out exploration and exploitation of minerals, as well as hydrocarbons, both dry and liquid, are continued in this country. 
It was surprised to hear the remarks tonight of  Senator Hall  who, as I said earlier, spent so much time saying that the Opposition has done so many bad things and again is frustrating legislation. 1 look upon our attitude to this legislation not as something which is frustrating the Government but as something by which we are protecting the rights of so much of this country. 1 was surprised to see him adopting the attitude he has tonight. I recall the time when the right honourable John Gorton was Prime Minister of this country. I regret that  Senator Hall  is probably busy in his office and is not able to be present at the moment. When  Senator Hall  was Premier of South Australia in 1970 there was great concern when  Mr John  Gorton, as Prime Minister, was proposing to introduce legislation in regard to seas and submerged lands whereby the Commonwealth was going to lay claim to the off-shore areas of this country. Many of us were prepared to support him in that in order to get the situation resolved, as I said earlier in my speech tonight, and to know where State authority lay and where Commonwealth Government authority lay.  Mr Hall,  who was the Premier of South Australia at the stage, did not quite see it this way. I intend to quote from the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of Saturday 28 March 1970. The front page headline stated: 'South 
Australia Will Fight On Sea Bed Mining'. The article stated: 
The State Government - 
This was the Hall Government-  will fight the Government over who should control all underwater mineral rights outside the low water mark. The Premier,  Mr Hall,  made this clear on Thursday after the Minister of Mines,  Mr de  Garis, had telephoned him from Melbourne to say that the talks between State Ministers of Mines and the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz,  had failed to reach agreement.  Mr de  Garis had stated that nothing had been achieved at the meeting which could benefit the State,  Mr Hall  said.  Mr Hall  said South Australia will not cooperate with the Commonwealth on this matter. 
I repeat: 

 Mr Hall said South Australia will not co-operate with the Commonwealth on this matter as it believes there should be legislation identical with the existing off-shore oil legislation. 
This is so different from the mining code that is being supported tonight. The article continues: 
The off-shore oil legislation provides for the oil on the Continental Shelf outside State waters such as gulfs and bays to be operated under the joint and parallel arrangement. We will fight the Commonwealth decision all the way,  Mr Hall  said. The Government was concerned that the Commonwealth might eventually intrude into what was termed South Australia's internal waters which include Spencer and St Vincents Gulf, he said. 
I ask honourable senators to wait for this last line. It reads: 

 Mr Hall said he hoped the State interest would be upheld in the Senate. The Bill might be defeated there. 
That statement is by the then Premier of South Australia. It was reported in the 'Advertiser' of Saturday, 28 March 1970. The article dealt with proposed legislation about which he was most concerned. We find tonight that for some strange reason  Senator Hall  is accusing us of frustrating legislation. If I were to take that statement in the newspaper as my guide I would have expected him to be on my side, but he has a democratic right to change his mind. As far as I am concerned the people of South Australia sent me to the Senate to protect their rights. I still stand by the statement made by the last Liberal Premier we had in South Australia when he said he hoped the Senate would stand by the States. That is exactly what I am doing- standing by what the previous Liberal Premier in South Australia said we should do. That is my stand, and I will oppose this legislation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. If the Government is of the belief that tariff policy has not caused unemployment why is the Government continuing the special assistance plan that was introduced to assist those who have been made redundant because of the Government's tariff policy and who also receive much higher financial benefits than those in receipt of unemployment benefits, which are also subject to a means test? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I ask: Is it a fact that the young Russian violinist Ermolenko, who some time ago appealed for asylum in Australia, is now returning to Australia and applying for Australian citizenship? If so, will the Government now grant citizenship to 2 Czechoslovakian seamen, Jaroslav Reinisch and Jan Janik, who appealed for asylum many months ago because they feared returning to their former country? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that the British health scheme is in danger of bankruptcy and collapse unless the British Government pours multi-millions of pounds into the fund? Will this Government change its mind on the introduction of a nationalised health scheme in Australia, bearing in mind the facts of the British scheme and the attitudes of the Australian public which are opposed to any such nationalised scheme being introduced into Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He will recall that on 1 1 February this year and again yesterday I asked him questions regarding  Mr Jaroslav  Reinisch and  Mr Jan  Janik 2 Czechoslovakian seamen, who have applied for asylum in Australia. The Minister informed me yesterday that he hoped to have some information later this week. Has he any further information regarding the request for asylum in this country? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. I ask: Is it a fact that this Government would be prohibiting the sale of fish with a mercury content in excess of . 5 parts per million? Has the Minister seen statements by  Mr Broomhill,  the South Australian Minister of Environment and Conservation, that he cannot agree with statements made by  Mr Morrison,  the Minister for Science, nor can he believe they were said by him? Is the Minister also aware that the matter is causing grave concern in South Australia and that  Mr Broomhill  has said that such statements by  Mr Morrison  lead him to believe that he is not being completely rational on this matter, which could affect a very important industry in South Australia? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Following the recent inclusion in the Australian Labor Party platform of a provision for 'sympathetic consideration of people who for political and other reasons would face danger to life and liberty upon return to their country of origin', what will the Government's attitude be to the people of the South Vietnamese and Cambodian embassies requesting asylum in Australia if their present countries and governments should tragically fall? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Government is setting up a propaganda outlet entitled the Australian Government Liaison Service which will disseminate Government views to media outlets in the States? What is the estimated cost of such a Government liaison service? How many people would be employed and what is the real function and purpose of such a Government service? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission news service involving radio and television news will not be operating from Parliament House today and the only service that will be operating will be the teleprinter service? What facilities are available in Parliament House for the ABC? What are the reasons for the breakdown in services? Has the Minister had discussions with the ABC? What steps does he propose to take to overcome the problem? 
I ask the Minister for Media: Which organisations did he approach for names of people for appointment to the Australian Film Commission and which organisations suggested nominees? Did the Minister invite the Australian industry to submit names before or after he requested  Mr Jack  Valenti to suggest appointments? Which members of the Commission were recommended for appointment to the Commission by the industry and which were selected by the Minister himself? 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that a locally produced South Australian television program, which incidentally is a triple Logie Award winner, has been dropped because of increased transmission costs? Is he also aware that many major commercial television stations are likely to reduce transmission times because of increased costs resulting from the switch to colour television and the cost of greater Australian content in programs? Will the Minister have discussions with representatives of commercial television in an endeavour to resolve this unfortunate situation? 
-Can the Minister for the Media say how many people will be in the Australian delegation attending the Cannes Film Festival? How many of these people will be Government sponsored? What is the estimated cost? What is the composition of the delegation? What will be their various functions? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen the reported statements of a  Mr Marcus  Conn, one of America's top lawyers in the broadcasting field? I quote one such statement: 
Australia's Ministry for the Media is a frightening concept because of its great potential for abuse and power. 
I ask the Minister whether he has also seen the further statement: 
We've seen what political control has done through manipulation of the media in Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union. 
What steps has the Minister taken to make sure that there will be no such abuse of power in Australia? 
asked me a question concerning the involvement of Australia at the Cannes Film Festival. I told the honourable senator that I would receive some details from my Department and provide the information to him as soon as possible. I am now advised that the international TV program market officially opened yesterday, 2 1 April, and will end on 26 April. Nineteen Australian producer groups attended, comprising 37 people representing 41 accredited productions, that is, Australian television productions. The film market will begin on 9 May and finish on 23 May. Eighteen producer groups will be in attendance comprising 28 persons representing 15 Australian feature films and 7 theatrical documentaries. Representatives from within my portfolio will be: 

 Mr Roland Beckett from the Film Branch of my Department, who will be managing the Australian delegation. 

 Mr Ray Atkinson, United Kingdom/Europe representative of Film Australia, shortly to be incorporated in the Australian Film Commission 

 Mr Tom Stacey, Executive Officer of the Australian Film Development Corporation; and 

 Mr Cameron, Director of television drama, Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
My Department's major contribution to the Festival has been in the areas of promotion, publicity and advertising. 
The Australian Film Development Corporation has hired one of the best cinemas in the city between 9 May and 23 May, from 2.30 to 6.30 p.m. each day to show only Australian films. The Corporation is also advancing funds to seven TV producers and 10 film producers for the Festival. I should stress that these funds take the form of loans not grants. However, I understand that the Department of Overseas Trade has a scheme entitled 'The Export Development Grant Scheme' which may make it possible for rebates of up to 85 per cent of eligible costs to be made to the producers involved. I intend having discussions with my colleague, the Honourable F. Crean, on this matter. I might add that I received advice this morning that M.  Chevry,  the Director General of the Market had particularly welcomed Australia and said he was delighted to see Australia so strongly represented and hoped it reflected new trends in production and marketing of Australian programs, which had a definite international appeal. 
I address my question to the Minister for the Media. I ask the Minister whether he has seen a Senate committee report on all aspects of television and broadcasting, including the Australian content of television programs, page 18 of which states: 
In the opinion of the Committee, there are good reasons why some FM stations at least should be commercial stations. There appear to be disadvantages in restricting FM services to public broadcasting and other non-commercial stations. 
I ask the Minister whether he has also seen on the following page another quote from the Committee as follows: 
It is obvious that many thousands of Australians listen regularly to commercial radio stations. Why should the advantages of FM radio be denied to these listeners? 
Is it a fact that Labor Party policy states that no FM licences will be granted to commercial stations? Will the Minister make a statement to clarify the position, spelling out clearly whether commercial stations will be granted FM licences? 
I present the following petition from 980 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Nationalise the Insurance Industry. 
Reduce the flow of funds to Industry and Commerce from the Private Sector and increase their dependency on Government finance. 
Endanger the economy by undermining confidence in Industrial and Commercial Company Shares and by thereby causing share prices to tumble. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: What is the cost of the Government's advertising, including that on television, of its proposed Medibank scheme as well as its legal aid scheme? Does the Government intend to run television advertisements on inflation in Australia? If so, what is the estimated cost of such publicity and when will these advertisements commence? 
-I support  Senator Cotton's  foreshadowed amendment because it is of great concern to this Parliament to see Advances to the Treasurer escalating to an amount such as $240m. I agree with  Senator Cotton  that we must have some clarification of the expenditure on areas in which these advances are being made because for too long there have been too many single line entries presented to the Estimates committees spelling out great expenditude but giving no details of it. I wish to deal with a Press release that was issued by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on 23 March of this year. I wish to emphasise that this release came from the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. He stated that a grant of approximately $953,860 would be made on his behalf for arts and cultural projects throughout Australia. It amazed me that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is making grants in this area. One notices that there is a grant of $12,500 for a central art gallery. Then we also find that an advance of some $153,860 will also be made for the 'Paddington (Sydney) Centre Complex which will comprise a Video Research Centre, 2 Cinemas, a large Hall for concerts, exhibitions, receptions, a restaurant' and so on. We find also that the Old Tote Theatre in Sydney, a live theatre, will receive a grant of approximately $100,000. 1 do not criticise, or object to, money being given in this area for assistance in the development of the arts, but I do question that this grant should come from the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. 
The Press release stated further with regard to the Paddington exercise that it is a venture shared between the Sydney City Council and the Film and Television Board of the Council for the Arts. My understanding- the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  can correct me if I am wrong- is that this area comes within the responsibility of the Prime Minister. So I ask: Where does responsibility start and where does responsibility finish? One finds the Minister for Tourism and Recreation making advances. When I questioned him I received in correspondence a statement which said: 
No commitment for further funding for this project - 
That is the Paddington project -  has been given by the Minister nor is it envisaged. 
That Minister may not make any more advances, but which Minister will? Will it be the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who will give the next grant? Will it be the Prime Minister? This arts matter is right in his area. Will it be the Minister for the Media and his 
Department which will make extra grants? The whole thing is spread so broadly and the lines of demarcation are so thin that it is hard to see to where we can point for responsibility or where we can make inquiries to see where the responsibility does lie. 
When one looks at the overall complex in Paddington and the finance that will be involved, $ 153,860 is not very much money. One wonders whether any more Government contributions will be made in this area. I would not expect the Minister for the Media to be able to answer these questions because it may be the Department of the Prime Minister or the Department of Urban and Regional Development which will pick up the tab next time. But when there are shades of grey in areas of responsibility such as this, how far down the line does responsibility go? I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  or the Minister for the Media whether they are prepared to say how far down the line the Department of the Prime Minister goes with regard to responsibility for the arts. I am critical in this area because when dealing with this matter in the Estimates committees we found it rather difficult to obtain some of the information. I do not blame the Leader of the Government in the Senate who is now at the table, but I feel that responsibility is spread so thinly that we should question exactly where it lies. 
I would like to turn to what I consider to be an extremely important area in which the taxpayers' money is being used in an endeavour to indoctrinate the taxpayer himself. I refer to the advertisements with regard to Medibank not only in the Press but also on television. The Government has stated that it is spending approximately $ 1  Vim  to explain Medibank to the community. I would prefer to use a word other than the word 'explanation'. I feel that this has been a political sell by the Government at the taxpayers' expense. Since the Medibank campaign has eased off we now find that we are getting propaganda on television with regard to legal aid. This is being pushed on us in many ways. I know that the Minister for the Media has been questioned on certain aspects of the presentation of this propaganda, if I may use that term. 
I go further. Medibank was publicised at our expense. It was a sell of Government policy. We are finding that suddenly legal aid has had a great impact- not only on television. I presume that all Federal members of Parliament, like politicians in South Australia, have received great bundles of printed propaganda regarding legal aid. I wonder how much more of this propaganda has been sent round the country and what the cost to the community will be, because the Government is paying for it out of the taxpayers' money. In addition to the expenditure on this propaganda exercise, where is it leading us? Is this another subtle and devious approach to whittle away gradually the free enterprise system of the legal fraternity and a back door method which will eventually lead to nationalised- a more popular word used by this Government is socialised'- legal services in this country? 
I questioned the Minister for the Media this morning regarding the possibility of television advertisements on how to live with inflation. The Minister did not give me a clear cut answer this morning. He stated that discussions are taking place and that he is looking at the cost aspects of the matter. I notice the smile from  Senator Wright.  Nevertheless, there has been no firm statement that this television propaganda regarding how to live with inflation will not take place. I mention the 3 areas: Medibank, the legal aid scheme and the probable television advertisements with regard to inflation. 
What concerns me is the setting up in this country of a monolithic propaganda machine. The matter does not stop at the televising of these things. Publications are being pushed out into the community in no uncertain manner. The Government has set up what it calls the Australian Government Liaison Service- a service which will increase greatly the numbers of staff, including the numbers of journalists, but a service which I consider will be a one-way flow. It will be a Government propaganda exercise again to tell the people of this country- to feed information out to the city Press, the rural Press and local governments all over the place- the nature of Government policies, the reason for Government policies, second reading speeches of Ministers and such other matters as will gradually get around to selling Government policies to this community; a sell for which this community will be paying. 
I am not surprised that the Government has done this, but I am concerned that the Government has done it. Quite frankly, I see developing in this country a situation in which millions of dollars of taxpayers' money will be expended in order to sell Government propaganda to the community. We have seen it happen in other countries. I feel that this is a subtle method of imitating what was done years ago in Germany when  Dr Goebbels  did his wonderful propaganda exercise using the theory that if you tell people something often enough they finally will believe it. This is what is happening in the repetition of the television advertisements for Medibank. We have had the same with regard to the legal aid system and no doubt we will get the same with regard to inflation so that people will expect- and accept, the Government hopes- to live with an inflation rate of 1 6 per cent, 20 per cent or 20-odd per cent. The Government will attempt to sell its policies in order to overcome the criticism it is getting at present. 
Having said that I wish to move into another area of the media. I refer to access radio. Some time ago the University of Adelaide was given a licence to run a radio station known as Radio University. The licence stated that the station should also be used for access radio and that the access radio would be available to the various community or ethnic groups. Finance has been one of the grave problems for this radio station. It has applied for financial assistance. I refer to an article in the local Adelaide Press which reads: 
Approaches for financial assistance for the provision of a producer to aid the groups, for studio support expenses, a part-time office assistant, office expenses and publicity to reach those interested have fallen on deaf ears. 
Yet the Film and Television Board, which originally declared it could not help as it had no funds for access radio, recently made a $15,000 grant to the Sydney-based Public Radio Association of Australia, of which Radio University is a member for 'research into access radio'. 
All that Radio University in Adelaide has asked for is a minimal grant to be used in the area of experimentation. The grant was sought on a nonrecurring basis. The station wanted an initial grant for the first year. No request was made for further years. This station was to have been the first access radio in Australia. On a trial and error basis it would have found out the best way in which to operate access radio to give assistance to the various ethnic groups in this country. The station has been refused any assistance; yet now 2 access radio stations are to be set up in this country. As I understand it- the Minister can correct me if I am wrong- one will,be in Sydney and one will be in Melbourne. This is at the request of  Mr Grassby,  who is, I suppose one could say, the unofficial Minister for Immigration. These will be on a 3-month experimental basis. The programs will be taped programs of 2 hours in the morning and 2 hours in the evening. The programs will be for the various ethnic groups, but the programs are to be arranged by  Mr Grassby. 
Before I go any further let me make it clear that I fully support the concept of access radio for the various ethnic groups in this country. I am not critical of it in any way at all. I express concern that, if these stations are to be used with a program basically supplied or directed by  Mr Grassby,  whose political colours are well known, the stations could be used to indoctrinate the various ethnic groups of this community. I ask the Minister, if I am incorrect, whether he will give the Senate a guarantee that these stations will not be used for propaganda purposes in any way at all, that a man such as  Mr Grassby  will not be in charge of the programming, that some independent authority will be in charge of the programming and that if politics are discussed there will be a balance and political discussions will not be loaded one way. Everything in the area of the media today is pointing towards an imbalance. As I said earlier, we are seeing the creation of a giant propaganda machine to sell for this Government. It is one of the great dangers we face in this country at present. The danger is not that the people of this country will be silly enough to accept indoctrination by this Government but that such a situation is gradually developing in this country. In other countries where this has happened we have seen the tragedy that has followed eventually. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. It follows the question I asked on Wednesday of last week when I asked the Minister for details of the cost of government advertising, including that on television, of the proposed Medibank scheme and the legal aid scheme and the cost of television advertising on inflation. I now ask the Minister whether he can provide that information. If he cannot, will he refer the questions, including that regarding the total cost of government advertising, and the detailed cost of each particular matter on which it has advertised, to the respective Ministers, including the Prime Minister, so that this Parliament and the taxpayers can be fully informed on the cost of indoctrination by this Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and follows his reply to a question asked by  Senator Donald  Cameron this morning. I ask: Is it a fact that the licences for the 2 ethnic radio stations to be established in Sydney and Melbourne are issued to the Special Consultant on Community Relations? Is not this special consultant  Mr Al  Grassby, who will take part in the organisation of the programs? Will these programs include such matters as legal aid and other Government policies? If not, will the committee that the Minister suggested may be established be completely independent of any influence by  Mr Grassby?  Will the programs come under the control of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? If not, where will the control lie, what facilities will be used by these radio stations for transmission and who will finance them? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Postmaster-General's Department will collect the licence fees for the 2 new ethnic radio stations to be established in Sydney and Melbourne? Who will supply the transmitting facilities? Is it not a fact that other than in respect of the normal technical standards and operating bands these 2 radio stations will not be under the control of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and not under any control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Following upon the Minister's answer yesterday, I ask: Will these stations not be under the control of  Mr Grassby? 
I direct to the Minister for the Media a question which relates to 2 ethnic radio stations to be established in Sydney and Melbourne. Was a meeting, organised by  Mr Grassby,  held in the offices of the Department of the Media prior to and in relation to the appointment of a committee to deal with and prepare programs for these 2 ethnic radio stations? If so, was the Minister aware that such a meeting was to take place? Who gave authority for  Mr Grassby  to hold such a meeting? Has a committee been established? If so, by whose authority was it established? 
I present 5 petitions, identical in wording and from 44, 190, 25, 32 and 36 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: (.Nationalize the Insurance Industry. 
Increase bureaucratic control over the Nation's financial resources. 
Lead swiftly to total socialization and complete subjugation of all the citizens to the State. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that it is planned to transfer responsibility for Government advertising from the Department of the Media to the Prime Minister's Department? If so, will this expedite answers to my questions on the cost of Government advertising? Will this mean that the Prime Minister will be taking over the Government propaganda machine? Will such a takeover be likely to reduce the propaganda output from the Government? 
-I listened with great interest to  Senator Georges'  speech on this Bill. 
I listened to it from inside and in my office as well. I heard him prior to the suspension of the sitting. I support this policy of training for trade unionists. I think it is most important that they are trained. I question one area. Why is the training to be done outside the usual areas where tertiary education takes place? Nevertheless, I support the principle because it is necessary that unions in this country have a much better understanding than in the past of the whole industrial and commercial area of this country. One thing that has concerned me for a long time is the radicalism of, and the misunderstanding that has crept into, so many of the unions in this country. Trade unionism is a very important part of our community and of the industrial and commercial sectors of our community. I fully support trade unions. But I do not support the radicalism that has crept into so many of our trade unions. That has been one of the tragedies of this country. A few moments ago we heard  Senator Georges  still trying to defend the actions of certain unions, particularly the Seamen's Union of Australia, regarding trade in this country- trade that affects not only the delivery of the commodity to another country but so many people in this country. 
I heed the comments which  Senator Hall  made by way of interjection. Who is governing this country? Who is responsible for the various departments in this country? Who is responsible for trade in this country? Is it the trade unions? Is it a few leaders? Is it the Government of this country? Quite frankly, tragedy will strike in this land if we are dictated to by a few people who elect themselves by one means or another to govern this country but who are not elected to govern this country. There can be only one Federal Government in this country, and that is the Government which sits in this building. If we are to be dictated to by union leaders and sections of unions we are in for a sorry state of affairs in time. One of the greatest problems which we face is the discrimination by and the attitudes of some of these unions. It is all very well to use Chile as an example. That is the country which has been referred to and with which we have a trade agreement. How discriminatory have these people been in respect of other areas of the world where trade has taken place? Have they shown any balance? Have they shown any respect? No. All they have shown is political bias and irresponsibility. They are taking government away from the Government which they claim they support. 
I want to go further and refer to the guerrilla tactics which have been used in so many areas of industry. I refer to the position in my home State of South Australia where, in the motor industry, we have seen guerrilla tactics used by means of spot strikes. How costly have the strikes been? Whom do they affect? Do they affect an industry as much as they affect the community? It is John Citizen who finally pays the price by way of increased costs of those products, because of the high cost that is paid when disruption takes place in industry. What about the average worker? The average working man is a decent, honest Australian who wants to support his family. Because of the radicalism of a few union leaders, and more importantly shop stewards, he is pulled out of work. He does not have the opportunity to decide democratically whether he will stay at work. He is forced into a situation. One of the things that I hope will happen in this country- the sooner the better- is the replacement of what are called the belly-aching pommy shop stewards in this country who are disrupting so much of the industry in this country. Let me qualify that statement by saying that I have the greatest respect for English migrants and European migrants, but I am sick and tired to death of these shop stewards who cause so much disruption. How often of a morning when there has been a strike do we hear on 'A.M.' a strange accent? I consider that many of these people are industrial drop-outs from the United Kingdom. They could not make the grade in the union cause in the United Kingdom. They have come out here as semipros, with one purpose in mind- to be disruptive. The sooner they are replaced with good English, good European or the good old Australian shop stewards, the better off the unions, including the individual members, and this country will be. 
I return to this Bill. I think it will give an opportunity for so many more people in the industrial movement to get the education and a better understanding to deal with the various aspects of industry and commerce in which they are operating. They will eventually have a far better understanding and appreciation of the real problems of unions, the real problems of management and the real need for responsibility not only on one side but on both sides- the workforce and management, collectively. It is only when people have respect and full understanding that we will get, I hope, a better industrial situation than we have had in this country for quite a few years. I could refer to many things- to costs and to the number of man hours lost in industry.  Senator Guilfoyle  referred to them this afternoon. It is a tragedy for the whole of the country. It is a tragedy for the consumer who has to pay the higher price because of these disruptions. More importantly, it is a tragedy for the people employed in those industries because they are unable to work. Think about the working man who so often does overtime. 
-It is all right for  Senator Georges  sitting here saying that. If he were honest he would admit that many of these working people have said to him: 'I have worked for weeks. I have done overtime. I have committed myself to various things- a new car or something else for the family. I have been out of work for a fortnight, not because I want to be out of work but because the radical so-and-sos have taken us out on strike. I am back where I started. ' I hope that this problem will eventually be overcome by a better understanding by the shop stewards, and a replacement of some of them who today are not leading but misleading unions and causing so much disruption in areas of industry and commerce. I hate to think where we will eventually finish if that does not happen. I have faith in the average Australian. I am referring to all the people, whether they are new arrivals or not. Let me generalise by saying that I have faith in the great majority of the workforce of this country. 
I referred to pommy shop stewards. Let me clarify what I mean by that, for the sake of the interjector  Senator Georges.  There is a big difference between a pommy shop steward and an English shop steward. Let me make that clear. There is a big difference. If  Senator Georges  talked to many of the people in the workforce today he would find that they agree with me. They are getting rather tired of working in the factory and suddenly finding that they are out of work, not through choice but because of the decision of some radicals who have gone on strike. Do not deny it. It is a fact of life. I could name many of my friends in the workforce who would stand by that statement. 
Having said those things, I wish to turn to another area. It relates to educating industry and the trade union movement about this Bill- not only what is contained within the Bill but also what is implied by the Bill. I fully support the setting up of the Trade Union Training Authority, because I believe that it is essential. I hope that it will have the support of all the Australian people because it is an entirely new idea and I think it is an extremely good idea. I wish to question the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  about the very elegant presentation of the Bill, the second reading speech and also the explanatory notes which have been circulated. I do not know how many copies were sent out or to whom they were sent. I should like to know how many copies were printed. It has been very expensively done. The folder in which these documents were enclosed has a very heavy gloss cover. It would have been extremely expensive to print because it has been done on a 3-colour basis. I question why it was necessary to send out such a glossy document. 
I repeat that it was important and essential that these documents should have been sent out, but they could have been presented far more cheaply. They have been sent out by a government that claims to be cutting its costs, trying to reduce costs wherever it can. 
Irrespective of where the documents were sent, this Government has been boasting that it is cutting costs; but this is a ridiculously expensive presentation. I do not think it was at all necessary that the Government should go to such expense to send out such grandiose documentation. I would be pleased if the Minister could tell me what costs were involved, how many copies of these documents were sent out and also where these documents were printed. One of the documents- the Bill- has the name of the printer on it, but that is not shown on the other 2 documents. Possibly they were printed by the Department; I do not know. This is something that I should like to know. If this Government is to continue to say that it is cutting costs, I think it is time it set an example by showing that it is cutting costs. These documents are certainly no such example. The Government was prepared to spend an excessive amount of money to get the message through to the people when the message, important as it is, could have been got through to them much more cheaply. I would be pleased if the Minister could give me an answer to these questions. I support the Bill, but I still stand by the comments and criticisms I made earlier. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media following upon previous questions, including those asked last week, on the cost of Government advertising. Does the Minister now have any information on the costs in all areas of government advertising, including advertising in relation to such matters as Medibank, legal aid, and the proposed 'How to live with inflation' advertisements? 
Can the Minister for the Media say whether the allegations concerning the Australian Film Development Corporation, as reported in yesterday's 'Age'- the article referred to attempted loans by a  Mr Saffron  and to the alleged presentation of scripts by a  Mr and Mrs Stacey-  are correct? If so, will the Minister make inquiries to ascertain whether any of the senior executives of the Australian Film Development Corporation were aware of  Mr Stacey  's activities? Following the Minister's statement yesterday, I ask him on what grounds is he stating that an inquiry will be made? Can he also say what type of inquiry will be held and what areas it will cover? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: With the activities of the Australian Film Development Corporation, including some of its senior members, being critically questioned in the current articles in the 'Age' and because of the importance of the Australian film industry, will the Minister establish a full independent inquiry into all aspects and activities of the Australian Film Development Corporation and all people involved with it in order to clarify the situation openly? If the Minister is not prepared to do so, does it mean that he does not regard the revelations in the 'Age' articles as extremely serious? Is the Minister aware that he could be accused by many of covering up on a matter which reportedly has very sinister implications? 
-Can the Minister for the Media say whether the Australian Film Development Corporation's assessments of the film 'The Man from Hong Kong' recommended against the making of that film while, at the same time, 'The Outcasts of Fullgarah' received excellent assessments as to its being filmed? If this is so, will the Minister make inquiries as to why the Board of the Australian Film Development Corporation overrode the recommendation and proceeded with the filming of 'The Man from Hong Kong' rather than with 'The Outcasts of Fullgarah'? Following the Minister's answer to  Senator Martin  this morning will the Minister at the same time give further consideration to having a full inquiry made into all the activities of those associated with the board of the Australian Film Development Corporation? 
I just wish to say that the Opposition adopts its previous stand as stated, that is we oppose both these Bills. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate is a follow up question to that asked by  Senator Chaney  and the reply, or non reply, given by the Leader of the Government. Does the Leader of the Government know to whom authority was given to raise a $4,000m loan? If not, does he then deny that no authority was given to raise the $4,00Om loan' 
We are dealing with the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) 1974 [No. 2] (1975) which is a Bill to amend some areas of the Broadcasting and Television Act, plus 2 other consequential Bills, the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 [No. 2] (1975) and the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 [No. 2] (1975). Both of these Bills depend upon the outcome of the major Bill which is the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2). Bills identical to these were introduced in November 1974 and were debated in the Senate in March this year. It is interesting to note the way in which these Bills have been introduced into the Parliament. Until last Thursday  Senator Douglas  McClelland was the Minister for the Media and the Minister in charge of these Bills. Although the Minister responsible for these Bills was a member of the Senate they were not introduced in the Senate. They came from the House of Representatives to the Senate. They have again taken that course. There is no doubt about the reason for this operation by the Government, that is, if these Bills are rejected a second time they can become part of the machinery for another double dissolution. I say to the Government: We in the Opposition will accept our political responsibilities. No matter what tactics or political threats the Government might try to use, we in the Opposition will not waver from what we consider to be a responsible attitude to legislation that is brought into this chamber. 
The major Bill concerned in this cognate debate is the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) 1974 [No. 2] (1975). When it was introduced in the House of Representatives  Mr Killen,  our spokesman in the other place, endeavoured to move many amendments, all of which were opposed by the Government. But in the House of Representatives the Government saw fit to agree with one suggestion that was put forward by the Opposition with regard to the minimum period for renewal of licences for 3 months, which period the Government increased to 6 months. As a result of the discussions that took place the Government saw fit to incorporate certain amendments in the legislation before it came to the Senate. The former Minister for the Media has mentioned that in his second reading speech. 
A great deal of time elapsed between the time the Bill was first introduced in the Senate and when it was finally debated in March of this year. 
As background to this matter I should now point out to the Senate that  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, who was then the shadow Minister for the Media and had responsibility for discussion of the legislation in this place on behalf of the Opposition, had many discussions with the former Minister for the Media and the Government regarding certain of our proposed amendments. But the Government was not prepared to accept any of our amendments and subsequently the Bill was defeated in the Senate. As stated by the former Minister for the Media in his second reading speech, the Bill has been returned to this place in the same form in which it was previously introduced. As I understand the matter, the Government still has the same attitude to the legislation. I inform the Senate and the Minister in charge of this Bill that we in the Opposition still adopt our previous stand which is that we are opposed to this Bill as presented to the Senate. We will be opposing the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
There are many reasons why we oppose this Bill. Perhaps I should qualify all of them by saying that freedom of speech has always been regarded as precious in this country. I hope it always will be because it is an essential part of our democratic way of life which we in the Opposition will not see eroded in any form. Freedom of expression goes further than just the individual. It also concerns the media- the Press, television and radio. Within certain guidelines that can be laid down we must have protection of the right to freedom of expression for individuals and for the various sections of the media. It is necessary that we should have guidelines to protect the rights of individuals and also guidelines to protect the rights of the various sections of the media. Those guidelines should not be so narrow, restrictive or repressive that they interfere in any way with the freedom of the Press or, more importantly, allow areas for government interference. This Bill does not provide any of these guidelines. In fact it has many dangers and in some areas could bring about completely their reverse. I refer the Senate to page 1823 of the Senate Hansard of 27 May when  Senator Douglas  McClelland, then Minister for the Media, in answer to a question referred to the Broadcasting and Television Act in the following terms: 
Last November the Government sought to amend the law to give the Government some say in programming arrangements - 
I want to emphasise the words 'to give the Government some say in programming arrangements'-  but unfortunately the Senate rejected that legislation. Since then the legislation has been re-presented to the House of Representatives, has passed that House, has been reintroduced into this chamber and is awaiting debate here. Until that legislation is passed program standards remain completely the responsibility of the Broadcasting Control Board. 
I am not questioning the integrity of the previous Minister for the Media. I have worked with  Senator Douglas  McClelland for a long time and not for one minute do I cast any doubts upon his principles or integrity, but Ministers do change, though I am not now casting any aspersions on the present Minister. There is always a danger with any legislation if we place too much reliance on the individual in charge of the Act, so legislation must be framed in such a way that we can make sure that even if it is taken to extremes there will be protection and that the aims of legislation will be confined within that legislation and cannot be stretched to extremes where eventually the legislation can do what it was originally stated it would not be doing. The Minister himself implied that the Government was interested in having some control over certain areas of the media. The Government, of course, talks about clarification of the Act and, as was said by a member of the Government Party in another place, the Government wants to obtain 2 new powers which the general public thought that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board had. 
This Bill does not stop there. It goes far beyond that and I think  Senator Guilfoyle  put the matter very succinctly when she spoke to this Bill when it was previously before the Senate. Unfortunately I have not brought with me the speech that she made on that occasion but she said that what this proposed legislation was about was power; not just the general exercise of power but the application of excessive and extreme power. Basically one can say that this legislation is all about total power. To me that sums up the situation very clearly. I do not intend to go into the detail of all that was discussed last time when this Bill was before the chamber because  Senator Guilfoyle  dealt with many aspects of it on a clause by clause basis. I wish to generalise in certain areas and to refer particularly to clause 6 of this Bill which deals with section 16 of the old Act which affects a lot of the operations of the radio and television media. 
In this clause we can see just how much intrusion there could be into the various activities of commercial radio and television and how their judgment and forward planning could be affected in such a way that as time went on the economic viability of commercial radio and television could without doubt be adversely affected. When all is said and done, we must be aware of the fact that managements of both radio and television stations have many responsibilities. They have a responsibility for the service that they are giving to the community, a responsibility to maintain standards within that service, and a responsibility to ensure that their stations are economically viable, otherwise they will go out of existence. A lot of experience is required as well as anticipation of program acceptance. Many judgments must be made on the type and quality of programming. 
People in various areas of the media reach a high standard in an industry which is confronted with many risk factors. Within their areas of expertise they try to reach a balance in the overall application of programming and program standards. It does not take very much outside interference to upset that balance completely. If that balance is upset financial returns to radio and television stations can be greatly reduced, and this is turn can adversely affect their economic viability. 
The Opposition agrees that high standards of programming must be maintained. This has been stated in previous debates in this place, and we still stand by it. However we do not agree that there should be excessive interference, or the possibility of excessive interference, from outside in the programming arrangements of commercial television and radio. I have received quite an amount of correspondence from people expressing concern that if this Bill is not carried children's programs could be adversely affected. I have also had correspondence from people who say that children's programs should be not heavy educational programs but of a light entertainment type because children need time to relax when they come home from school. I have discussed this subject with the commercial television people, who are genuinely concerned about this matter. They want to do all they can to present the type of children's program that will give the greatest benefit to the young people, but there are problems involved in this. 
What type of program should be provided for children? If television stations were to present a program which some children would refer to as being very stuffy children would not watch it. They would run out into the back yard to play. Some parents say that this is the best thing that children can do- go out of doors, exercise and get some fresh air. Other parents say: 'Give them light entertainment'. This is the argument that goes on. 
Whilst the Opposition and I fully support the Children's Television Action Committee and the work it is doing, I can assure this chamber that the television industry itself is giving and has given a lot of thought to what can be done to present the best type of program. With the cooperation of people in the television industry and their acceptance of responsibility, and through constructive discussions and trial and error, I hope that one day we will reach a situation where most people- we will never please all people- will be happy with the type of children's television programs that are presented. I know that people in the television industry are prepared to work towards this end. No doubt in future the Minister, I if I am still in my present position, and the commercial television industry will still receive letters from people who do not agree with the type of programs being presented. I say that in all fairness to the commercial television people who, as I say, are genuinely trying to do all they can to give the best type of program for the children, and this community. 
Again I say that the Opposition accepts the authority of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- or the Broadcasting Authority, as it is proposed to be renamed- as a regulatory body for the standards of both radio and television, but we do not accept the excessive control that is proposed in this legislation. There must be limitations. It  is  all very well to propose legislation to give control but there is not need to have legislation that goes further and threatens, through the provision of power such as that to be found in the legislation that we are now considering, to screw down commercial radio and television stations. As was pointed out in a previous debate, there are powers here that, if they were carried to the extreme, could virtually be a form of censorship. 
I do not disagree with the view that when a person steps completely over the line there is a need, as happened recently, to have the type of program that person is presenting taken under control. But the Board has that power now. Why do we have to go further and really get into a situation in which there is a risk of abuse occurring? I am not going to say that the members of the Board would do this of their own volition. I am not going to say that the present Minister would want to see this being done. But one cannot always be sure about who will be the next Minister. Therefore I think that the legislation itself should be framed in such a way that abuses cannot occur through the use of excessive control or excessive power. Once again we can see the danger of such interference occurring in the nature and content of programs that they could be completely changed. As I said earlier today in this debate that could greatly affect the returns of the commercial television and radio stations and adversely affect their whole economy. So we must show caution as to how far we go regarding the intrusion of authority into the areas of programming. 
Whilst I am dealing with the subject of programming standards let me point out that this Bill deals with legislation relating to the overall regulation and so on of the commercial sections of radio and television in Australia, but it does not provide in any way for any power with regard to the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- not that I am being critical of that aspect. The Government is now attempting to bring about a clarification of the Act, a better interpretation of the Act, a whole revision of the Act. We agree with that, but we do not agree with the way in which the Government is going about doing that at the present time. We do agree that certain standards should be laid down in this country. 
Having said that, I think that we should also look at what is happening in the radio world at the present time. I refer in particular to the reasonably new radio station in Sydney- 2JJ. Since it first went to air that station has caused a lot of concern to many people, not only because of the type of programs it has presented but also because of the type of discussion that has been held on it and the type of language that has been used. If any commercial station in Australia were to try to do half an hour of the programming that 2JJ has been doing I am certain that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, as a responsible body, would have it on the mat. Yet this station has been allowed to go on. 
I have discussed this matter previously, not with the Minister but in other areas. It was to be the station that would enable free expression by young people. It was thought that eventually 2JJ would tone down its programs and reach a balance at which perhaps there would not be the extremes and excesses of language in the very crude forms of discussion, but it has gone on in that way. 1 am just wondering why the people involved in 2JJ in Sydney have not been brought into line. The reports about a certain rock show that was held during the weekend before last worried and frightened many people and disgusted many people. This show was sponsored by people working for 2JJ. I want to qualify my remarks by saying that I have no objection to the type of station that 2JJ was set up to be. However, I take strong exception to certain people who were given freedom of expression which they are abusing at the present time. 
If commercial radio and television stations are to have standards placed upon them- and I agree that these standards should be set- I think it is time that someone had a jolly good look at 2JJ and imposed certain standards upon people who at the present time are abusing the opportunity that has been given to them as young people of this country to express themselves freely on the ether waves. These people must not forget that there are people besides their type of person who want to listen to radio stations of this type. I hope that something is done in this area because I respect both the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission as responsible bodies. I hope that the Commission will soon take steps to make some changes in the attitudes of certain people who are programming 2JJ at the present time. I do not suggest that the Commission should be excessively restrictive or take away the type of programming that was initially intended. But if abuses are occurring, certain people must be brought into line, as would and does happen in the commercial section of the media today. 
I wish to turn to another area that is very important to commercial radio and television, namely, advertising. Advertising, of course, is the lifeblood of commercial radio and television. Whilst standards must be applied to advertising -again I emphasise that- excessive interference in this area can greatly and adversely affect the economic viability of these commercial sections of the media. I understand that there were proposals afoot- and the Special Minister of State  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  can correct me if I am wrong- to introduce a system of block advertising. It was proposed that instead of advertisements being spread over the hour as is the case at the present time, they would be grouped together in a solid block and shown on the hour. This would be one of the greatest things that one could ever wish to introduce to kill commercial television. I know that many people think it would be a jolly good idea because advertisements would not be shown at a time when a film had reached an interesting point. But as I have said- and I want to emphasise this strongly- advertising is the lifeblood of commercial radio and television. I can see what would happen if commercial stations were forced to group all their advertisements into one solid block to be shown on the hour. People would use the time in which the advertisements were shown to make a cup of tea, to make a phone call or something of this nature. Such an arrangement would greatly affect the revenue received from advertising and in turn would affect the incomes of television stations. 
I think the introduction of such a system would be a very adverse step. I would like to see it proven to me that it would be of benefit to the commercial television stations. I can see such a step achieving one thing only, and that is completely the reverse of what is intended. Anything that is done to interfere with or upset the general revenue earning capacity and the economic viability of commercial radio and televisionparticularly commercial television- at the present time will be a detrimental step. Unless these companies can at least break even- and they need more than a break even point- they will not be able to maintain their standards of programs because they will not be able to afford to do so. It is all very well to say at the present time that some commercial radio and television stations are doing extremely well. There are some that may be doing reasonably well, but the radio and television industry today, like most industry in Australia, is really feeling the crunch. I do not think we can afford to try to take excessive action that in any way will affect the television industry. If there is excessive interference in these areas by the introduction of measures that will in any way increase the cost structures within the industry it will reduce incomes. The result will be that we will finish up with a greatly reduced television service and a greatly reduced standard of programs from those television companies that might survive. I do not say that lightly. 
We are all aware that many industries in this country today are particularly concerned about their economic viability and just what the future holds for them. The television industry is not singularly peculiar in that regard, but it is a very sensitive industry which is dependent so much upon its market. The market of the television industry is found in the lounge rooms and the other rooms in people's homes. Most people watching television can change their market very easily. All they have to do is turn a knob and the people in the commercial television industry are very aware of that. They are very conscious of the fact that if they do not act responsibly and if they do not present the type of program that will appeal to people, then they will be the ones who suffer initially. In the longer term, of course, the people of this country will also suffer because they will not have the spread of television coverage that they have at the present time. 
That brings me to my next point which is concerned with Australian content. I want to make clear that we in the Opposition support the principle of Australian content. However, I do question the suggested 75 per cent Australian content. I know that the Minister has clarified this point by saying that the Government does not aim to achieve 75 per cent Australian content or local content in one year but that it should be a target. It is all right to have that target. I do not disagree with 75 per cent as a target, but one thing I want to emphasise is that we should hasten cautiously, not necessarily slowly, towards that target because unless we maintain standards and present quality in that Australian content the market, the people of this country, will not readily accept it. We have to look to the cost structure involved in achieving that target. I hope that constructive discussions can be held between the Minister and the departments in relation to many aspects related to Australian content to ascertain the best way in which to approach the problem. I regard it as a problem because costs today are extremely high and, whilst the commercial television industry is prepared to accept Australian content, it is concerned about how much it can afford if the excessive cost situation which we have had in the past continues in the future. 
I repeat that I hope that when looking at this system we are conscious of the fact that quality must play a very important part in the production and in the final presentation of Australian content on television. I look forward to the day when Australian content in television programs is greatly increased, because I am a firm believer in the principle that if things can be done locally they should be done locally so that local resources are used. I think that is good for the country and good for the viewers. At the same time, I also say that we must have some overseas content to keep a balance and to have some idea of what is going on in other countries. I would hope that in the future programs with Australian content will go to other countries. 
That brings me to another aspect- the points system. I urge the new Minister for the Media,  Dr Cass,  through the previous Minister, to have a good look at the points system. I suggest that it should be both reviewed and revised. I go further and say that it also should be related to costs. I feel sure that the points system in itself could help and encourage Australian content in the programs which are shown on television if they are applied in the right way. This has not been so to the present time. The points system has been introduced and it is only by experience that we learn, but already it is showing up very clearly that there should be a revision of the whole structure and of the priorities within the points system. A further endeavour should be made to relate it to realistic costs. When that is done we will start to see greater benefit from our points system. , 
One could talk about the many areas covered by these Bills. I simply say in conclusion that we in the Opposition will oppose the second reading of these Bills. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media to take away this Bill, review and revise the Act and then bring back properly drafted Bills for the Senate to consider. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I rise on behalf of the Opposition to support  Senator Hall's  motion. I do so because it is interesting to note that  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, referred to a  Mr Gerry  Karidis as being one of the personalities involved very early in this whole shady, shonky overseas loans deal. I refer to the House of Representatives Hansard of Wednesday, 9 July at page 3654. I quote  Mr Clyde  Cameron where he says:  1 was the mastermind. 1 was the one who discovered  Mr Karidis  and if it had not been for me finding  Mr Karidis  the Government would never have got near the point of being able to raise enough money to give Australia ownership of its own natural gas. ownership of its own uranium enrichment plants ... I was the one who discovered  Mr Karidis  and without  Mr Karidis,  the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  would never have come into the picture and the Prime Minister would never have had the satisfaction which he must surely enjoy of having been present at an Executive Council meeting which formally authorised the borrowing of the money which came solely as a result of my enterprise . . . 
That enterprise dug up a certain  Mr Gerry  Karidis. With regard to the timing of the matter we find that on page 3655 of the same  Hansard  Mr Clyde  Cameron stated: 
Some time in September 1974 a  Mr Gerry  Karidis of Adelaide told me there that he believed that it would be possible for the Australian Government to raise a long-term loan of a substantial amount at about an 8 per cent interest rate. 
Further down the same page  Mr Clyde  Cameron said: 
In the second week in October  Mr Karidis  sent a telex message addressed to me and the Minister for Minerals and Energy care of my Adelaide office, because the Minister for Minerals and Energy at that time did not have a telex machine and all the messages that had to come by telex had to come through my office in Adelaide or my office in Canberra. 
That in itself involves  Mr Karidis  very heavily. It goes further than that. It is a clear admission that there is evidence of further communications having taken place between  Mr Connor's  office and  Mr Karidis  and no doubt through to  Mr Khemlani  in London. We have talked about tabling all documents. The words of  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the honourable member for Hindmarsh in another place, make it perfectly clear that there is further documentation. Much has also been said about an association with a certain  Mr Khemlani.  I again quote  Mr Clyde  Cameron as reported at page 3656. He involved  Mr Karidis  right in with  Mr Khemlani  when he said: 

 Mr Karidis subsequently indicated that he had made contact with a  Mr Khemlani  who claimed to be in a position to make direct contact with Middle East oil interests who had large sums of money to lend. 
Further on  Mr Clyde  Cameron stated very clearly that he was the one, with  Mr Karidis,  who introduced  Mr Khemlani  to  Mr Connor  in the first place. By his admission in his statements as reported in the  Hansard  of the House of Representatives for Wednesday, 9 July,  Mr Clyde  Cameron has made it perfectly clear that this  Mr Karidis  has played a very important part, a very early part and an initiating part in the association of  Mr Khemlani  in this whole deal. Hence for those reasons alone I support  Senator Hall  in his motion. 
We have tried all methods to get this Government to come out into the open and to place the facts before this country. But this Government has done all it possibly could to do a complete shonky cover-up deal with the whole of the facts of this issue. The Government has given the people of this country only what it has wanted to give them- all that the people need to know, as  Senator James  McClelland said on television recently. The people of this country want to know much more. Rather than continually covering up, if it has nothing to hide it is time that the Government came out into the open and gave all the facts to the people, because the people of this country are still waiting for all the facts. If they were to come out no doubt the facts would totally embarrass this Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What has been the total cost of Government advertising since December 1972 and the cost of each particular matter on which the Government has advertised. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Media seen reports that Melbourne's access radio station 3ZZ is to be replaced with a station similar to 2JJ in Sydney? Are these reports correct? If they are, what will happen to access and ethnic radio in Melbourne? Will guidelines be set to enable some control of programs and language which applies to other radio broadcasting in Australia but which at this stage does not appear to apply to 2JJ in Sydney? 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
a ) the effects of inflation, 
b) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the present subsidy on landlines for radio transmission will be stopped shortly? Does Government policy support this proposition? How many radio stations will be affected if the subsidy is discontinued? Is the Minister aware that many country stations could go bankrupt? What will happen to these stations and their frequencies? Will they be taken up for public or access radio? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is it a fact that the method of charging for landline services used by radio stations has been changed? If so, what are the changes and will a detailed statement be made to the Senate? As telecommunications charges have increased by as much as 50 per cent, is it correct that landline charges to radio stations are to be increased also? If this is so, is the Minister aware that the increased charges and the dropping of concessions will place on many radio stations great financial strain which could send some of them bankrupt? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. It follows announcements by the Minister for the Media that some 15 experimental radio licences have been issued to tertiary institutions for public broadcasting purposes. Can the Minister say whether the stations have been issued with licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act or the Broadcasting and Television Act? Is it a fact that these licences have been issued without applications having been called or without a public hearing? Is it a fact also that the Minister for the Media recently appointed a committee to report to him on public broadcasting? Has he taken action to license these stations while his committee is still taking evidence on this matter? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media: Is it correct that the appointment of a Tasmanian on the Australian Broadcasting Commission expired at the end of June this year? Has this vacancy been filled? If so, was it filled by a Tasmanian? If not, who filled the vacancy and is it a fact that no Tasmanian would then be on the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
This Budget has been presented at a time which can be described only as one of great economic crisis. I must say also that the Government must take a great deal of the blame for the crisis that exists in Australia at present. I think it is worth reminding the Senate that when the Whitlam Government came to power inflation in this country was running at something like 4.6 per cent. In  Mr Whitlam  's own words, that was a little over 1000 days ago. Many of us can remember that low rate of inflation, 4.6 per cent, which was of great concern to the then Government formed by the Liberal Party and the Country Party. In that 1000-day period we have seen inflation increase from some 4.3 per cent or 4.6 per cent- it had been slowly falling and unemployment was under control- to something like 6.9 per cent. All the signs are pointing to an increase in the rate of inflation. The forecasts are that it will go as high as 20 per cent. Unemployment is also at an all time high. Even  Mr Hawke  has said that in all probability unemployment in this country tragically could reach in the vicinity of half a million people. That is a tragedy for Australia, because for so long we were known as the lucky country- a country of great potential, a world leader in development with a consistently very low level of unemployment, and a country which consistently maintained one of the lowest rates of inflation in the world. Today the whole situation is completly reversed. Australia is at the top of the list today and is regarded as the pacesetter in the world in relation to inflation. 
One of the tragedies which has befallen this country is the fact that when this Government came to power after 23 years in Opposition it went headlong into putting into reality its socialistic doctrinaire policies, completely overlooking priorities and completely overlooking one of the major elements which should be found in any responsible government- good economic management. That was of secondary consideration to the Government. We can see the results that are with us today- high unemployment and a high rate of inflation. Incentive in the country was killed. Private industry was attacked as much as it possibly could be. Small industries were placed in jeopardy, as is evidenced in an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 26 August last. The article refers to figures which were supplied by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission and states: 
As the Commission noted in its 1974 report: 'The number of companies placed in liquidation- 1 1 55- represented an increase of 9.2 per cent, arising from an increase in a number of voluntary windings-up. 
Figures covering the first seven months of 1975 reflect an intensifying of the economic gloom. To the end of July, 878 companies had been wound up. The most disquieting of these statistics are the higher numbers of companies voluntarily going into liquidation- 102 in May, 10 1 in June, 1 1 5 in July, at least double the monthly average in the previous 1 8 months. 
Those figures are related to small industries. The article goes on: 
What of the fate of those businesses which are run as family concerns or partnerships and are not registered as companies? These businesses are registered under the Business Names Act, and it is significant that in 1974 applications for new names were 1036 fewer than in 1973- the first yearly fall recorded by the New South Wales Statistician's Office since 1967. 
These figures are related to small companies which make up such an important part of industry and commerce in Australia and which play a major part in the employment of so many people. It is because so many small companies have gone out of existence that today so many people are unemployed. More than 250 000 small businesses employ approximately 40 per cent of the Australian work force. The figures I have cited reflect the tragic present situation. 
The Government set its sights on nationalising industry as much as it possibly could in order to squeeze private enterprise and to kill incentive in this country. We found that 'profit' became a dirty word. It was not until last year that the signs became so gloomy that the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  realised that they had to change their attitudes.  Dr Cairns,  who was Treasurer for a short period, at that stage recognised that profit was a necessary part of industry and commerce in this country.  Mr Whitlam  went one further. He even suggested that the Prices Justification Tribunal should consider the aspect of profitability when making its findings. That was a complete turnaround on the part of the Prime Minister. By that time, of course, a great deal of industry had been affected and we are still seeing the effects of that rundown in this country at the present time. 
One only has to look to mining and oil exploration in this country to find another area in which incentive was killed. We know what has happened in the mining area. We have seen a downturn in exploration and in the activities of mining companies. Latest reports show very clearly that profitability is at an extremely low level. No incentive is offered to companies to go further afield to explore potential mineral deposits in this country. Firstly their profitability is too low to carry the excessive expenditure involved in the hit and miss nature of exploration; secondly, incentive is being killed because they are being bled of their profitability by so many of the policies that this Government laid down early in its time in office. Only recently has it started to give some sympathy to the idea of changing them. 
If one looks at oil exploration activity in this country at the present time one can appreciate how much was being done in Australia previously. Not so many years ago oil wells were being drilled in many of the off-shore areas of Australia. Australia has great potential in its offshore areas. Many wells have been drilled onshore yet today's figures show how that activity has suddenly run right down. In 1969 322 wells were drilled in the exploration for oil and natural gas. In the first half of 1975 only 16 wells were drilled, and it was proposed that a further 31 wells would be drilled, although one doubts that that will be so. Only 17 rigs are available in Austalia at the present time, and of those only three are active; fourteen are idle. In years past we had far more drilling rigs than that in Australia. What has happened to them? The drilling companies, along with other companies, have turned their backs on Australia and have gone to explore other fields because they were given absolutely no incentive in this country to continue their exploration, which is very much a hit and miss operation and a very expensive exercise. 
The companies concerned faced the reality of what would happen if this Government continued on its merry way. As an example one only has to look at what has happened on the northwest shelf of Western Australia. Already billions of cubic feet of gas have been found in that area but the situation there is static because of the attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who has killed completely incentive in that area and in other areas of Australia. To me that is absolutely tragic. At a time when we have an energy crisis and should be developing all the resources we have in this country, we have basically what could be described as a static situation. In a few short years, in a little over 1000 days, the situation has been allowed to run right down almost to a stop. The price of oil and so many other products is very high today in overseas countries. We perhaps could have been in the position of being able to export these products. At least we could have been closer to selfsufficiency than we are at the present time. 
The Government has created another problem by encouraging excessive wage demands, and that encouragement continued right through until last year when suddenly we found that even  Mr Crean  as Treasurer made the statement- I believe that  Mr Cameron,  who for so long had been encouraging excessive wage demands, also supports this statement- that perhaps there should be some restraint because one man's pay increase could mean another man's job. But by that time the damage had been done. The Government is very conscious of the problem that it has on its hands at the present time, as was pointed out earlier today by  Senator James  McClelland, the Minister responsible for such matters. 
The Government also engaged in excessive spending which in itself was not only inflationary but also transferred resources from the private to the public sector. It removed the opportunity for futher investment as well as killing other incentives for private investment. It shunned and criticised overseas investment. In many cases it went so far as to condemn overseas investment and virtually to close the door on it. It was not until last year, when it could see the gloom, that it suddenly changed its attitude. Its attitude did not just change; some members of the Government Party went to such extremes, with the support of the Prime Minister and many other Ministers in the Cabinet, that we reached the situation in which we had the $4,000m loan exercise. 
That loan was to be obtained not through the normal channels but by very strange means which were peculiar to this Government and would be peculiar for any other government. That was the crazy situation which we reached. One knows why the loan was being raised. It was being raised in order to nationalise all our areas of minerals and energy, from exploration and exploitation to production. There is no doubt about that. Let us look at the hypocrisy that comes into this matter. For so long the Government condemned overseas finance, even overseas finance raised through the normal channels, and suddenly responsible Ministers were going overseas and running around dark alleys and other strange places trying to raise a loan of approximately $4,000m. I am citing only one of the loans, which eventually, when the time came to repay it, would have cost the taxpayers of this country approximately $ 1 8,000m. 
We have reached the present situation which can be described as a frightening economic crisis, with high inflation, a lack of incentive and a lack of confidence not only in the country but also in the general business and commercial sectors. We have the problem of increased unemployment and the problem of young people leaving school this year. Where do they go when they leave? It is a tragedy for those young people and I am certain that many of them will never forgive this Government or forget what it has done. The Government must take the blame for the policies that it has followed blindly because of its political bias and political ambitions, irrespective of its economic responsibilities and its national responsibilities. The Government was hell bent on setting down its socialistic ideals and forcing them upon this country, irrespective of what it did to the people, industry and commerce and the potential of this country. 
Whilst one can say that there have been social reforms in Australia, I ask: At what price have they been introduced? How long will it take for Australia to recover? How long will it take for overseas investors to have enough confidence to come back into this country? I am certain that they will not come back while the Labor Party is in power. If this country is wise enough and the Liberal and Country parties get back into government at the next election, we will see some confidence restored in the community and overseas, we will see an upsurge in private investment and in the industry and commerce of this country and I hope and pray that we will see a great downturn in unemployment, which is one of the greatest tragedies that this Government has inflicted upon Australia at present. 
I fear for the young people who will leave school or university at the end of this year in the hope of going into the work force. It is all very well for the Government to say: 'We will give them unemployment benefits and social compensation'. What is that to a young person who has initiative and pride and wants to make a contribution towards the country? Members of the Government Party are to blame for that. I know that they will turn around and say 'It is not our fault, it is a world-wide problem', as  Senator Mulvihill  said earlier. I violently disagree with  Senator Mulvihill.  Although I have a high regard for him I cannot accept that statement.  Mr Whitlam  and others have said that overseas inflation is a grave problem and that we have had to live with the importation of that problem. I remind the Senate that there were high rates of inflation in other countries during the period that we were in government, but at that time Australia was not the pacesetter for inflation as we are today. We had one of the lowest rates of inflation in the world during those periods, and we were proud of that. 

 - Senator Poyser can go through the statistics for any period he wishes and he will see that the situation is clear from the figures. I turn to the energy crisis. It has been said that the increase in crude oil prices has had an adverse effect on Australia. What has happened to the 70 per cent self-sufficiency of this country? The price of crude oil in Australia is one of the lowest in the world, at approximately $2 a barrel. This country was self-sufficient in its foodstuffs and in the great bulk of its raw materials. We did not have to rely upon the importation of many raw materials, including crude oil, unlike other countries such as Japan which were affected by the energy crisis and which suffered from an inflation crisis as a result. 
What is the position today? Whilst we are a pacesetter and have one of the highest rates of inflation in the world, many other countries such as Japan have experienced a great downturn in the rate of inflation. In the United States of America, where there has been so much turmoil and trouble with inflation, the rate of inflation today is coming down. Those countries are getting themselves under control. So far this country is not under control. That has been stated by  Mr 
Hayden himself, who has made a responsible attempt to do something to make up for the mess that this Government has created in a little more than one thousand days. It is no good members of the Government Party saying that inflation was imported and was caused by the energy crisis, because I remind the Senate of the statement made by the Treasurer in Statement No. 2, The Budget and the Economy'. He said: 
Australia had been comparatively insulated from the oil price rises- 
I emphasise those words-  and the downturn in world activity also reflected in only muted fashion in demand for Australian exports. 
So  Mr Hayden  does not agree with some of the statements which have been made by members of the Government Party. In many ways I feel sorry for  Mr Hayden,  who now has the responsibility of trying to correct the mess that has been created by this Government in a little more than one thousand days. 
I do not intend to go into details of the Budget. They have been covered by many speakers on this side of the chamber.  Senator Cotton  dealt in depth with the financial and taxation aspects and  Mr Fraser  put in very clear and concise terms exactly how we, if we were in government, would reduce expenditure and at the same time create incentive to try to get industry, the economy and the country generally back on the rails. Besides the huge increase in revenue resulting from the expected continuation of and increase in inflation which this Government will receive this year and which is anticipated by the Treasurer's statement, the Government is increasing its revenue from indirect taxes. I refer not only to the increases in the taxes on such things as beer, spirits and cigarettes, but also to the levy of $2 a barrel on crude petroleum which will cost approximately 5c a gallon. All those factors are inflationary because beer, cigarettes and the other commodities fit into the consumer price index. When a government throws a levy of $2 a barrel on crude oil, which will have a great impact throughout the whole of the economy, I cannot understand its logic and I doubt whether it has any wisdom, because that levy will have a very inflationary effect which will be cumulative. 
Perhaps one should turn to another area of indirect taxation that was left out of the Budget. It was brought in by what could only be described as a backdoor method. I refer to the increases in postal and telecommunication charges. I will agree that although we did try to amend part of the legislation we supported and finally agreed with the Government on the introduction of legislation to change the structure of the Post Office to have a postal commission and a telecommunications commission, but that is where our responsibility stopped. It is of no use the Government saying that the increased charges are the responsibility of these respective commissions. No doubt if the Government had been more generous in its attitude in the first place regarding the capital side of the operations of the postal and telecommunication bodies the charges would not have had to be so excessive, but at the same time irrespective of that the final decision to increase charges come back to the Government. So it is of no use the Government trying to dodge the issue. 
The responsibility for the increased postal charges rests fairly and squarely on the Government itself and it must accept all the blame. As far as the electorate is concerned, it is of no use to bring in these increased charges a fortnight before introducing the Budget because these charges are going to be extremely inflationary. They are part of the Budget because they are part of the fiscal policy and attitude of this Government. I repeat, this Government must take full responsibility for these increased charges. As has been said before, Father Christmas has now been killed; the Christmas spirit will go. One can feel sympathy for the many people such as mother and daughter and friends who communicate by letter. The cost involved in this method of communication is going to become very excessive. 
Even though one could perhaps say to himself that in the private sector these increased charges are not going to be inflationary, they are going to be a very heavy burden when they are coupled with all the other increased costs which have been inflicted upon the general community. If one looks at the area of business and the commercial world one sees just how inflationary these increased charges will be. I have been doing some work since the Budget was brought down. In discussions with major retailers in my city of Adelaide I have learned that generally stores there are faced with the prospect of increased charges of the order of $200,000 per annum. Who will meet these costs? Do honourable senators think that the stores can absorb them? Even the Labor Party now agrees that there must be profit for industry if it is to stay alive. There is only one way these costs can gc and that is straight back to the consumer. 
Let me refer to what has happened with country newspapers. In respect of one metropolitan newspaper in Adelaide, the daily afternoon newspaper called the  News-  I am allowed to quote these figures- it is estimated that the increased charges for postal and telecommunications services generally will cost this newspaper in the vicinity of $50,000 per annum. The postal increase itself will stand at about $20,000. Another newspaper which comes out once a week faces increased charges of something like $15,000. There is a limit to how much of the increased costs companies can absorb when all the other costs are escalating all the time. These costs finish up going one way. The price of the newspapers will increase and that means the consumer finally pays. This is the message we have been trying to get through to the Government for the last 3 years. It is the little people who pay for the excesses of and the mismanagement by this Government. This is the tragedy which exists in this country. 
Turning to country newspapers, let me say that there does not appear to be much sympathy from this Government for them. There has not been much sympathy for country people generally since this Government came to power and there is still not much sympathy for them. I can only put it this way. I think this Government realises that there are very few votes in country areas, so I would sum it up by saying 'no vote, no value'. I think that is the general attitude of the Government towards country areas. I have taken out some figures relating to country newspapers. I found that because of increased charges last year some 14 country newspapers in New South Wales and 10 country newspapers in South Australia went out of existence. Looking at the effects that the postal increases will have on country newspapers, it is estimated that of all the newspapers put out in New South Wales something like 30 per cent are posted. That means country newspapers are going to face increased charges estimated to rise by about 72 per cent and in some categories by 55 per cent. There is only one way that these additional costs can go and that is to the consumer. This will result in a decrease in circulation for many country newspapers and no doubt other increases in costs will mean that more and more country newspapers will be going out of existence. To increase postal charges is just like putting the clammy hand of death on so many country newspapers today, newspapers that are so important to the communities which they serve. Yet this Government is killing this very important area of the media. I regret very much the attitude the Government has adopted on these increased charges. 
One newspaper in South Australia which was established in 1903 went into recess last week, but with these increased postal charges it is doubtful whether it will ever start again. We hope that it will. I refer to the newspaper put out at Balaklava. The newspaper put out at Clare has a circulation of about 2500 and of that number 1 100 are mailed, including 500 to metropolitan and interstate subscribers. What effect will the increased postal charges have on that newspaper? Of the 6000 newspapers printed every week at Kadina over 1000 copies are posted. What effect will these postal increases have on this newspaper? 
In the last 3 years of increased charges and costs through inflation this Government has much to answer for, particularly in relation to the effects on country people in the area of the media. In losing their local rag, they are losing quite a bit of colour, as I have said on previous occasions. Government supporters talk about monopolies. They talk about aggregation and control of newspapers in Australia by one or two people. Who is doing more to send newspapers out of existence or to force newspapers to merge or to force them into a situation in which there has to be a takeover than this Government is doing at the present time? What will happen to the community service clubs which put out magazines? How are they going to keep going? The same applies in respect of publications put out by religious organisations. The charitable organisation Austcare in South Australia has told me that it will cost an extra $1,000 per annum to continue its publication. I can only question whether the Government, by increasing these charges on charitable organisations such as Austcare, is now starting to put on the squeeze so much that it is beginning to live off charity. These are the problems that we are facing with this Government at the present time. Turning to telecommunication charges, the Government itself must take the responsibility because now we find that transmission costs for radio land line services are going up. 
I direct to the PostmasterGeneral a question following upon the statement of the Minister for the Media that 15 new radio licences will be issued some of which will be under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. Will the issue of such licences contravene the provisions of the Act? Has the Minister had legal advice on this matter? If not, will he obtain advice from the Attorney-General and make it available to the Senate? 
I rise to raise the matter of increased charges for landline usage by radio stations which will affect many city radio stations and adversely affect many country radio stations because some of the increased charges are quite excessive. I refer to the radio station in Alice Springs where, because the Government has now taken away the concession rates for land-line usage, the charges will rise from $10,188 per annum to $17,829 per annum. For the radio station in Moree the charges will be increased from $3,900 to $6,825. The charges will be increased for the radio station in Roma from $2,002 to $3,503; for the radio' station in Charleville from $1,546 to $2,705; for the radio station in Longreach from $3,763 to $6,585; and for the radio station in Mount Isa from $4,583 to $8,020. One could go on, but I have given just some examples of the increased charges to the Senate this afternoon. There has been a rearrangement of charges for land-line usage and the concessions have now been abolished or, by the effluxion of time, have expired. 
What concerns me, firstly, is the fact that we know that the Coombs committee suggested in its report that the concessions for land-line usage be dropped. But in discussion with the Government,  Mr Bowen,  the Minister who was then in charge of this matter, made it clear that nothing would be done without further discussions between the Government and the Opposition. I quote part of what  Mr Bowen  said in a letter to  Mr Lynch: 
I expressly undertake that no alterations in charges will be made until such time as yourself and  Mr Anthony  have had an opportunity to discuss the matter, and if there is still disagreement following that discussion I acknowledge that you will be entitled to raise the matter in Parliament before any action is implemented. 
I appreciate the fact that we now have the Australian Telecommunications Commission. But there was still an obligation upon this Government to stand by a previous arrangement because a charge is a charge, and although the fixing of the charge is a matter for the Commission or for the Postmaster-General's Department, that does not excuse the Government from having a discussion and at least,, as is stated in this letter, having a public debate on the matter. To me this appears very much to be a matter of dodging the major issue, such as happened when the increased postal charges were introduced as a separate issue from the Budget. That area concerns me greatly, but I go further. Are we going to find one day that licence fees for commercial radio stations will be increased? These country radio stations provide a service to their particular communities. They have the colour of their communities and they keep their local identity. At the same time, because of land-line usage for many reasons- be it to give sporting reports from certain areas within the range of the station or a good news service to many country people, which they are compelled to give under the Actthese radio stations will have to pay a lot of money. This Government has seen fit to increase the charges for land-line usage to the extent that I have mentioned. 
But what will happen if licence fees for radio stations are increased? Radio stations will fall further to their knees. No doubt many country radio stations will go bankrupt. It is all very well for  Senator McAuliffe  to sit there with a smile on his face. Some country radio stations, with their present margin of profit, and their other costs that are increasing considerably all the time, coupled with the increased charges for land-line usage, will not be able to keep going. Many of them will have no alternative but to drop their level of service and cut down on their type of programs, or else go outside their particular sphere of operation to see whether they can obtain further finance. Even  Dr Cass  is aware of the fact- I say for  Senator McAuliffe  's benefitthat some of these radio stations may go bankrupt. I shall quote from a statement which  Dr Cass,  as Minister for the Media, made in this morning's  Age.  He said that he was prepared to seek Government subsidies for country commercial radio stations which faced closure because of recent rises in charges for land-lines. 
Irrespective of what  Senator McAuliffe  thinks,  Dr Cass  agrees with me that some stations will go to the wall. Then  Dr Cass  went on to say: 
However, if taxpayers were going to subsidise radio stations they would expect some say in their spending. 
We know what  Dr Cass  is already doing. I refer to  Dr Cass's  policies, not to  Dr Cass  as a man, and I wish to make that perfectly clear.  Dr Cass's  policies are such that he is hell bent on introducing as much public broadcasting as he possibly can. I do not disagree with the introduction of public broadcasting- I support the concept- but I will not support this haphazard method by which it appears that public broadcasting is being introduced, because it will hurt a lot of people and create a lot of problems. The thing that concerns me in this area of commercial radio, if this statement is correct- it is reported in the Press this morning as a statement by  Dr Cass-  is that  Dr Cass  says that if taxpayers are going to subsidise radio stations they would expect some say in their spending; in other words, in their operation. This means that if Government assistance is given to a commercial radio station,  Dr Cass,  on behalf of the taxpayers and by ministerial direction, will tell that radio station how to operate- perhaps for two or three hours a day or perhaps for longer, but it will happen. This is a grave intrusion into the area of commercial radio. 
-The future of private enterprise would be at stake under such a system. I suspect that  Dr Cass  may tend to force upon commercial radio stations his ideas about what shall or shall not be done and that he will say: 'If you do not accept my conditions you will get no assistance'. That is the way in which I interpret what has been said. I am waiting to see what will happen. I turn to the announcement made a fortnight ago by  Dr Cass  regarding the establishment of 15 new radio stations in Australia. One will be a commercial station and some will be national stations, but many of them will be public broadcasters. 
This morning I questioned  Senator Bishop  on the legality of the matter. I am waiting for his answer. I know that  Senator Bishop  will give an answer because we get co-operation on these matters from him. I hope that I will get an answer early next week. I questioned, firstly, whether  Dr Cass  had consultation with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is normally in charge of the issuing of licences following a public hearing, and, if so, what was the reaction of the Broadcasting Control Board to the discussions. I asked also whether it recommended the establishment of the various radio stations or whether it was done purely on the advice of the Department of the Media or at the direction of the Minister for the Media. I asked those questions because the Broadcasting and Television Act can be circumvented by the 
Government by the method of stating that the stations are experimental radio stations. 
I want to know how long an experimental radio station will remain an experimental station. Not so long ago two ethnic radio stations were set up in Sydney and Melbourne on an experimental basis for 12 weeks. Before the expiration of those 12 weeks there was an extension of time for another 6 months. Are those stations to remain under the cloak of experimentation and to be given a further extension of 12 months? Where is the line of demarcation drawn? How long is it before an experiment becomes a reality? That is the situation that we are reaching with the introduction of many of the other public broadcasting stations. There is no doubt that  Dr Cass  is changing the whole structure of the radio and broadcasting system as we know it in this country, but I think he is creating a very unfortunate situation. How many more of these radio stations can we expect to be set up by the back door method of so-called experimentation? How much longer will we have this ad hoc, haphazard method of introducing radio stations throughout Australia? The Government should set out in clear and concise terms a program for the introduction of radio stations that is based .on long term, long range planning. That is essential in this country. 
It is unfortunate that the Minister for the Media is circumventing the Broadcasting and Television Act by this method, which is purely one of ministerial control and control in no other way. Quite frankly I think the Minister has a responsibility to the Parliament for his actions in this respect. The Broadcasting and Television Act spells out very clearly that the issuing of licences should be debated publicly. There is a responsibility to do that. I appreciate that two other stations were set up when  Senator Douglas  McClelland was the Minister for the Media. But the setting up of two radio stations is entirely different from setting up of 15 radio stations. I suspect that this is only a start and that large numbers are likely to come along after that. Where does the responsibility lie? I have always understood that it lies within the parliamentary system itself, but here we find a ministerial direction completely circumventing an Act and the Parliament. 
Having expressed my views on that I want to go one step further and say that  Dr Cass  is even going against the Australian Labor Party's policy as laid down at the famous Terrigal conference. I wish to quote from paragraph 6 of the policy on the media, which spells out clearly what is the attitude of the Government. It reads: 
Licences for commercial and public stations will be issued or renewed on a variable basis. All applications- 
I emphasise the words 'all applications'-  for issue and renewal of licences will be heard in public. 
That is very interesting. Here we have the Australian Labor Party saying that all these matters will be heard in public. Let us go further and look at what  Dr Cass  had to say as reported at page 67 1 of the  Australian Government Weekly Digest  of 18 to 24 August of this year.  Dr Cass  said: 
The Government is waiting upon the report of the Working Party on Public Broadcasting before it determines a long term public broadcasting policy. When that policy is determined it will apply to all public broadcasters - 
I emphasise the words 'it will apply to all public broadcasters'-  prospective and existing. 
What is a prospective broadcaster? I interpret a prospective broadcaster as being an organisation that is hoping or anticipating that it will in reality be a broadcaster. I would also interpret that a broadcaster which has been given the opportunity of having a licence on an experimental basis is a prospective broadcaster. Here we have  Dr Cass  stating in his own words that these things should be done in public, but in actual fact the position is entirely different as we are finding that these stations are being set up, as I said earlier. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for the Media will be able to answer the queries I have raised on whether discussions even took place between the Broadcasting Control Board and  Dr Cass  or any member of his office. Those are questions that we want answered. More than that we want the Minister for the Media to let this Parliament know what is happening. He has stated that these should be done in public. I class this area- the Parliament -as being a forum for public debate. I hope that the Minister will accept his responsibilities in this respect and come out into the open and let the Parliament know what he intends to do with respect to public broadcasting. It is to play a very important part in the radio world and the community services of this country. So let us make sure that the introduction and implementation of public broadcasting and ethnic broadcasting in Australia is done on proper lines and according to programs that are set out on a long term basis so that they will be for the benefit of the people and will not, as is happening in many areas, cause confusion and probably longer term hardship to the many people who could be left, as I would put it quite frankly, to carry the can. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Media aware of  Dr 
Cass's reported statement on a television program last night to this effect: 'The Australian Broadcasting Control Board should not be burdened with the question of standards, and ultimately standards should be left to the people; to decide if they'll watch it'? Will the Minister ask  Dr Cass  to define standards as he sees them and to inform the Parliament whether such matters as the use of four-letter words come within that definition? Will he also ask  Dr Cass  to give clear evidence that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board fully supports his statement that it, the Board, is thrilled with his view on such matters as standards? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media whether he has seen an article in today's  Daily Telegraph  in which it is stated that the journalists employed by the Australian Information Service are to concentrate on publicising the Government and its policies within Australia at a cost of at least $6m to the Australian taxpayers. Are the matters stated correct? If not, will the Minister state the facts in relation to the directive given to the journalists and to the committee now looking at an internal role for the Australian Information Service, and also the estimated cost of this sneaky Government propaganda exercise? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. He may recall that on 4 September last I asked him a question concerning the issue of licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. I asked the Minister: 
Will the issue of such licences contravene the provisions of the Act? Has the Minister had legal advice on this matter? If not, will he obtain advice from the Attorney-General and make it available to the Senate? 
I now ask the Postmaster-General: Has he obtained that advice? If so, will he now give it to the Senate? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. He may recall my asking a question on 10 September concerning an article in which it was stated that journalists employed by the Australian Information Service are to concentrate on publicising the Government and its policies within Australia at a cost of at least $6m to the Australian taxpayers. In reply, the Minister said to me that the Minister for the Media,  Dr Cass,  would be making a statement shortly on this matter. Can the Minister inform me whether  Dr Cass  has made a full reply dealing with such things as journalists of the Australian Information Service concentrating on publicising the Government and its policies within Australia? If not, will the Minister make inquiries from the Minister for the Media to see whether this is the policy of the Government? Can the Minister also indicate what the cost of such a policy would be for the publicity issued by the Department of the Media? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media whether he has seen a report in Wednesday's  Australian Financial Review  to this effect: 
It was also suggested yesterday that the Government was considering removing the ACTU secretary,  Mr Harold  Souter, from Government boards of which he is a member for his part in the ACTU-Solo affair. 
I ask also: Are today's Press reports that  Mr Souter  resigned yesterday as a member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board before he could be fired by the Government correct? Is it also a fact that  Mr Bill  Davies of the Broadcasting Control Board is also resigning to take up an appointment in South Australia? Is the Minister also aware that by effluxion of time,  Mr Wright,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, will be retiring on 15 March 1 976, as will  Mr Williams  on 1 February 1 976? 
Government senators- Hear, hear! 
I take on board the cries of Hear hear' that came from Government senators. Will the Minister ask the Minister for the Media,  Dr Cass,  to give an assurance that  Mr Wright  and  Mr Williams  will be given the opportunity to continue as board members and that all new appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will be made on ability and expertise and not on a political bias or philosophy which could jeopardise the effective functioning of the Board, particularly in relation to the changing situation in the television industry and the further establishment of radio in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names of all the journalists and members of the Programs' Committee involved with the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program ' Lateline '. 
What is the estimated cost of the program. 
3 ) What is the audience measurement of the program. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. This relates to a question which I asked previously concerning an article in which it was stated that journalists employed by the Australian Information Service are to concentrate on publicising the Government and its policies within Australia at a cost of at least $6m to the Australian taxpayers. The Minister in his reply stated that he would make inquiries from the Minister for the Media and obtain a reply for me. I now ask the Minister whether he has received such a reply. If not, will he endeavour to obtain one for me? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media whether he has seen reports in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  alleging that bookings made at the Hilton Hotel in Sydney by the Department of the Media are to be cancelled. Are these reports correct? Is it a fact that the Department of the Media stands to lose some $37,000 deposit as a result of the late cancellation of the conference Women and the Media planned for International Women's Year for later this year? Is it also a fact that as yet the Hilton Hotel has not been officially informed of the cancellation of these bookings by the Department of the Media? 
I was very interested to hear  Senator Devitt  's remarks, particularly his early remarks when he made reference to the fact that  Senator Cotton,  on behalf of the Opposition, asked many questions in relation to this Loan Bill and wanted those questions answered before the Opposition would continue with the Bill. However, as I recall  Senator Devitt  's speech, he said that he supported  Senator Cotton's  actions in doing this because he felt it was a very responsible move. 
Unfortunately, later in his speech, he accused the Opposition of playing politics and I think, to use his words again, of filibustering on this issue. I wish to remind  Senator Devitt  and other honourable senators on the Government side that we in Opposition accept our positions and our role with a great deal of responsibility. I am confident that the electorate also recognises us as adopting a responsible role in the Senate. I am also very confident that the electorate does not see the Government in the same light because on many occasions the Government has been accused of irresponsibility. 

 Senator Devitt made reference to this Loan Bill tonight. It is a Bill we are debating tonight and have been debating for some 3 weeks. But I think it should be made clear also that during this time the Senate has also been dealing with the Estimates which take up 2 days of each week and which will continue to be examined on Friday of this week when normally the Senate would not be sitting. But it will continue that examination because further inquiries are needed into the various estimates for the departments which are now before the Senate Estimates Committees.  Senator Devitt  also went on to say that this type of arrangement that comes before the Senate at the present time is not unusual. We do not question that in the least. But we are entitled-  Senator Devitt  said in his speech that he agreed with us that this is necessary- to ask certain questions because last year the amount involved was about $956m, as I recall it. But this year I have seen estimates- I stand to be corrected by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  if my statement is not correct- that the loan will be in the vicinity of $ 1, 1 52m. 
So there is quite a difference between what has been practised over quite a number of years- not every year- since 1962. There is also a difference in the amount involved this year compared to other years. I believe that we have every right to look at this legislation very closely. We know that this Bill enables the Government to raise funds without obtaining Loan Council approval and also that moneys raised for defence purposes can be used only for defence purposes. But as I understand it, the Government will also be amending the Appropriation Bill so that some proportion of the defence bill- this $1,7 lim- could be funded by loans raised by the Government on the money market and no doubt used to finance the Budget. By using this process the Government would be adopting a way of partially funding its deficit to which reference has been made tonight by the previous speaker on the Government side. Of course, a deficit has become an accepted part of this Government's administration. I shall deal a little later with the deficit that we saw last year from this Government and the mismanagement that took place in relation to it. But if this deficit were to be filled without going through this process that the Government is using, the money would have to be raised by overseas loans or treasury bills, both of which would be terribly inflationary. This is something that the Government has done in previous years. 
In speaking of deficits, I am very conscious of the fact that last year the Government in introducing the Budget stated that it anticipated a deficit of some $570m. But by the end of the year we found that that had expanded to a colossal figure of some $2,560m. As a result of using the printing press and other methods to obtain money in order to overcome this huge deficit which in many ways was caused by complete mismanagement on the part of the Government with its excessive spending and its policies which it was hell bent on introducing irrespective of its economic responsibilities, we saw many unfortunate things happen in this country. We heard the claim from the Government that inflation last year was not really the fault of the Government. Towards the end of the year the Government admitted that it had made some mistakes. But it laid the blame for the great proportion of the inflation in this country on external events. It made reference to the fact that the energy crisis which had affected so much of the world was also adversely affecting the economy of Australia. I think we should take a few minutes to have a look at this situation. Firstly, Australia is 70 per cent self sufficient in crude oil. The Australian crude oil is probably the lowest priced crude oil available anywhere in the world. We also have natural resources in the minerals area, resources not only to meet our domestic requirements but also to export overseas. We were also selfsufficient in our foodstuffs. So when one looks at the overall position and considers our natural resources, one finds that without a doubt Australia was one of the most favourably situated countries in the world. 
Yet if we look at the figures relating to inflation we find that between December 1973 and December 1974 inflation in the United Kingdom was running at some 18.4 per cent, in Italy at some 25.8 per cent, which is highly inflationary, in the United States at 12.1 per cent, and in Japan at the frightening figure of some 23.4 per cent. Those figures relate to the period between December 1973 and December 1974, the time of the energy crisis when there was a great escalation in the price of crude oil, a temporary shortage of crude oil and a high cost for shipping and freighting that crude oil. In that period many countries were affected adversely, particularly the United States and Japan. Then if we look at the figures relating to the period between June 1974 and June 1975, and unfortunately I do not have any later figures than these, but they are still worth quoting, the rate of inflation in the United Kingdom increased and it is now running at some 26 per cent. It is interesting to note that whereas the United States had an inflation rate, of some 12. 1 per cent up to June 1 975, that figure has come down to some 8.6 per cent. In Japan, which was very adversely affected by the energy crisis, the inflation rate came down from 23.4 per cent to some 13.4 per cent. Yet in Australia, which is so well endowed with natural resources and which has advantages over other countries, our rate of inflation went from 16.3 per cent to 16.9 per cent, with every indication that that figure will go still higher. 
Again, if we look at the unfortunate situation in the labour market we find that in December 1972 the percentage of the work force in Australia who were unemployed stood at 1.8 per cent; in March 1975 it was 4.5 per cent and by August 1975 it had reached 5.6 per cent. There is a further increase over that figure because the number of unemployed has now gone from 299 000 to some 300 000, with every indication that the figures will go still higher. This is the tragic situation we face today because of the economic mismanagement of the government, because of the great deficit that resulted from its economic mismanagement and from the way in which it went about funding the deficit and not accepting its responsibilities. We have been told by the Government that this year we will have a deficit of some $2, 567m, but there is no guarantee that that will be the figure at the end of the financial year. In fact, there is every indication that the deficit will be far beyond that. We have seen figures already which indicate that the deficit will be a minimum of $3,200m, as I understand certain figures that were quoted this morning in the House of Representatives. I should like to quote what the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said in his Budget Speech in dealing with the strategy of the Budget itself. He stated: 
This year's budgetary considerations began, as usual, with an examination or the prospective Budget aggregates. Expenditures were projected to grow much more rapidly than revenues and the prospective deficit was nearly double that of 1974-75. Clearly, such a deficit could not be countenanced under the circumstances. 
In the context of an economy beginning to pick up, a deficit of the order initially projected would have been a prescription for accelerating inflation. Its acceptance would have been tantamount to abandoning concern with inflation, discarding our wages policies, condemning the corporate sector to an attack upon its profitability and threatening the future jobs of thousands of Australians- all at a time when the first signs of improvement in most of those respects are beginning to appear. 
That was most encouraging not so long ago at the time of the Budget. Yet already we have seen that the deficit quoted at that time by the Treasurer cannot be held and will be far in excess of that figure. In fact, there is every indication that it could be well in excess of $4,000m. I mentioned earlier that the indications are that in the first quarter of this financial year the deficit is running at a rate of something like $800m a quarter, which puts the deficit well in excess of $3,000m. When we take into account the inquiries that are being made by the various Estimates Committees, the whole situation becomes rather alarming. I will not deal with Estimates Committee C, of which I am a member, but with Estimates Committee G. In dealing with division 455, this question was asked: 
Does this estimate take into account the Budget's foreshadowed increase of 23 per cent in salaries for the year as an average increase; alternatively, at what point of time and at what level of salaries were the estimates made? 
The answer given by the Minister at the table was: 
The estimates are made in accordance with Treasury regulations and in accordance with the salaries payable at the time of making the estimates. Of course, any increase in salaries- that 23 per cent- will have to be met by a supplementary Budget. 
I refer to questions that have been directed by many senators on Estimates Committees to the various departments in relation to postal charges. We know that there has been an increase of some 80 per cent in postal and telecommunication charges. Every time such a question has been put we have had the answer that these increased charges have not been taken into consideration, and so there will be an added cost. The same thing occurs in relation to travelling and subsistance and in relation to overtime. The same answers have been given to questions relating to wage increases and increases in the number of public servants. And so the situation goes on. We will finish up with a much higher deficit than the Government stated would be the case when the Budget was presented to the Parliament and to the country. I pose the question: How is the Government going to finance this deficit and what will be the effects if the Government does not accept its responsibilities, if it goes on in the way in which it has gone on in the past, even though it said last year that it would accept its responsibilities and cut down? We will have a situation where there will be very adverse effects in the socio-economic structure of the country. 
One has to look only at unemployment to see what has happened in that field. There have been indications of increases in unemployment. Statements have been made that there will be further increases in unemployment. I will not quote names, but politicians, leaders in the industrial field and prominent members of the trade unions have said that we could see this year a figure for unemployment in excess of 400 000, which would be an absolute tragedy for the country. We have seen what has happened to the housing industry. This concerns me greatly because the people who are really affected by this are the younger people of our community. I should like to examine what has happened up to June 1975. I make reference to this because of the fact that last year we started with a small deficit. This loan relates directly to the anticipated deficit of this year and the funding of that deficit. With the expansion of the deficit, unless the Government accepts its responsibility we will find more and more hardship within our community. In relation to housing, in December 1972-1 relate these figures on a per thousand basis- there were approximately 41 000-odd homes approved; approximately 37 000-odd commencements; and nearly 34 000 completions. Yet in June 1975, with an increase in population and a greater demand and need for housing, we find that approvals have dropped to 30 000; commencements have been reduced from 37 000 in 1972 to 28 000 in June 1975; and completions- tragically- have reduced from nearly 34 000 in June-December 1972 to about 29 500 in June 1 975. It is a tragedy to see this sort of thing happening in a country where everything was going so well for so long. We do not like to see this result. One fears what the result might be in this coming year because of the indicators up to the end of June. 
As I said, it is frightening for younger people in our community who are desirous of owning their own home. The current rate of inflation is high and there is every indication that inflation will continue for quite some time. No doubt, if we believe all we are told, we will see a great increase in the rate of inflation in this country. Inflation has an adverse affect on many areas in our community. It affects many of the poorer people in our community. It also affects superanuitants. It also affects the States within the Commonwealth of Australia because they are forced to impose higher taxes themselves. 
Whilst the Federal Government is able to get fatter on inflation the States generally get poorer. The States impose higher taxation, as I said. This, in itself, is further inflation. Taxes of this sort, particularly indirect taxes, are terribly inflationary. We find that the community is being squeezed twice. The Federal Government is taxing the community, and the State governments, by necessity, are forced to increase their State taxes and, thereby, further squeeze the community. Even though the States- and my own Premier in South Australia- have endeavoured to obtain more revenue from the Federal Government they have not always found the Australian Government to have a sympathetic ear. In fact, both Labor and Liberal senators have been highly critical of this Federal Government because of the inflation that it has created and because of its lack of understanding of the inability of the various States to carry on without imposing further restrictive taxes upon their State communities. 
It was interesting to see that the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  said in the Budget Speech a few weeks ago- he has supported it since- that there has been an improvement generally in the community. He said that the community, particularly the business sector, has more and more confidence. Quite frankly, I have been unable to find this. There is a feeling of great uncertainty in the community. I know in a lot of the younger people in our community at the present time there is a feeling of fear. If one talks to those involved in industry and commerce one finds that there is a feeling of uncertainty, a feeling of fear for the future because they are not quite sure where the Government is going at the present time, what the deficit may be this year because of mismanagement. They do not know what will be the result of this year's deficit. If the printing press comes out again to try to fill this gap, we will have a very inflationary situation on our hands. Industry is not prepared to invest as it should be investing at present. Until such time as industry shows an upturn and is prepared to invest we will not see a recovery in the employment situation. On the contrary, we will find an increase in unemployment, which is a tragic situation which should never have been as bad as it is at present. 
We look to the young ones who will be joining the work force this year. When we look at the unemployment situation we find that there has been a great cover up in many areas because we cannot overlook the fact that quite a volume of unemployed people were not included in the unemployment percentage figures which have been cited by the Government because they were included in the Regional Employment Development scheme, the National Employment and Training scheme and the State employment schemes. So many schemes absorbed a great amount of the work force and kept such figures away from the total statistics. The figures which have been cited in the past by the Government in relation to unemployment have not been the real figures. 
When young people join the work force this year it will be a frightening experience for them. We will find an increase in unemployment in this area. A lot of young people who went back to tertiary education or secondary education for another year to overcome the problem of joining the work force last year, when no doubt they would have been unemployed, will be forced this year into the work force because of necessity and will face the horrible situation of finishing their education and going out into life at a time when they cannot be employed. I think the Government should take cognisance of that and should realise the tragedies which it has brought to so many people in this country, old and young, particularly the younger people wishing to join the work force. 
I mentioned earlier the young people who want to own their own homes. I appreciate that it has been a policy of this Government not to have private ownership of homes but rather to have public ownership of homes and so to make the people of this country subservient. In the 3 years in which this Government has been in power we have seen it do many things. We have seen it do a lot of most unfortunate things. We have seen an excess of Government philosophy rather than the Government accepting its economic responsibilities in the direction in which this country should have gone. We have seen a complete slowdown in the general economy. We have seen a complete slowdown in general productivity. We have seen an upturn in inflation. We have seen a tragic upturn in unemployment. 
I am certain that the young people and the old people in the community will always remember this Labor Government for what is has done. Many of the people in this country, including so many of the younger people, will never forgive the Government for what it has done. I am certain that industry and the people of this country are waiting for an opportunity to invest their labours, their finances and their general resources in this country. When we have a change of government they will have the confidence that back in power will be a government which led this country for 23 years and which had a record of achievement in development that took place in Australia, which tragically in the last 3 years has slowed down to an absolute dead stop. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate representing the Prime Minister. Will he state that all arrangements with  Mr Khemlani  for the infamous overseas loan were cancelled quite some time ago and confirm that  Mr Connor  informed  Mr Khemlani  of this? Will the Minister also confirm to the Senate and the Parliament generally that the Government has no financial commitments of any type with those associated with the proposed Khemlani deal? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the new Minister for Minerals and Energy. Will he be accepting all the responsibilities of the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  including those relating to any financial commitments entered into with  Mr Khemlani  or his associates involved directly or indirectly in the overseas loans affair? Will the Minister state whether there are any such financial commitments? If so, what are they? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Replies to my previous questions indicate that the Australian Government Publishing Service has debts of $ 1.5m, up to 8 months old. I again ask the Minister whether he will obtain for the Senate details of the creditors, how much each is owed by the Australian Government Publishing Service and the period of each individual debt. Also, is the Government still not paying any interest on its outstanding debts as was the case in relation to the debts of the Australian Government Publishing Service, some of which were in excess of 1 8 months old? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. He may recall that I originally asked this question on 4 September and have asked it again on a few occasions. I refer to the issue of wireless licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. I again ask the Minister whether he has been in touch with the Attorney-General to obtain an opinion from the AttorneyGeneral's Department as to whether the issue of such licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act contravenes that Act. If the Minister does have an answer, will he give it to the Senate? Is it a fact that the Minister has been supplied with an opinion from the Attorney-General's Department? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media whether the Bayutti report dealing with ethnic radio will be tabled in this place. I understand that the report has been completed and is in the hands of the Government. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General and I do so following his reply yesterday to my question about the legality or otherwise of the issuing of radio licences under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act. As the Minister has received an opinion from the AttorneyGeneral's Department on this matter, why will he not present it to the Senate rather than, to quote his words, an evaluation or expression from the Postmaster-General's Department or the Department of the Media? Is it not a fact that the Attorney-General's opinion questions the legality of the issuing of such radio licences? If so, is the presentation being held back to enable the Minister for the Media to issue more AM and FM radio licences, particularly in Sydney, before such issue is put under legal question, as this can only be regarded by this place as another example of Government attempting by back door methods to do certain things? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media: Is it not a fact that the Minister for the Media intends to issue more frequency modulation and AM radio licences very shortly? If this is so, is this not the Government's method of trying to use the airwaves on its terms before the decision on the legality or otherwise of some of these licences is made public? Is it also a fact that some of these new FM licences will be issued to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and are not included in the previously announced 28 new AM and FM ABC stations authorised by the Government? If it is a fact, is this not the Government's way of saturating the FM channels and the market for FM broadcasting so excluding the opportunity for commercial radio to have FM licences which is in line with the Australian Labor Party policy announced at the Terrigal conference? 
The Minister representing the Minister for the Media might recall that on 10 September and again on 1 October I asked him whether journalists employed by the Australian Information Service were to concentrate on publicising Government policies within this country at a cost of some $6m. I ask the Minister whether he has obtained any information from the Minister for the Media. If not, when is he likely to do so? 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. What is the current position in relation to broadcasting from. Radio Australia? When will the report of the committee inquiring into Radio Australia be finished? When will it be available for the Parliament? 
This is the third time that this message has been debated in this Senate. It has amazed me on every occasion when we hear our oppositionthe Government- standing up and talking about such things as principles and conventions when all the time they are basically talking on double standards.  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who has just finished speaking, has been highly critical of the actions of the Opposition. Yet I can recall an occasion in this place in 1 970-1 have a copy of the  Hansard  before me- when in a division on the third reading of an Appropriation Bill the Labor Party voted against us as the Government, and included in the names of those who voted against us was none other than  Senator Douglas  McClelland. He on that occasion saw fit to vote against Supply but on this occasion, in government, he sees fit to turn around and condemn us in opposition for adopting exactly the same role. So when we start talking about credibility and double standards we should look also at the record of this Government in the last few months. 
The reason the Opposition has adopted its present stance is the culmination of many factorsfactors that have been dealt with by so many people; factors that made it necessary for us, after a lot of deep and serious consideration to adopt finally the stance we did. If we had not done so we would have been dodging our responsibilities and obligations. It is easy for this Government to stand up today and adopt scare tactics. That is exactly what it is doing. In fact, it has gone so far with its scare tactics, as I said the other day, that it probably has some people convinced that even the River Murray will dry up before this issue is finished. But there is no need to have a crisis in this country. It is not a constitutional crisis; it is a crisis that has been brought about because this Government will not face up to its responsibilities. 
I recall that in 1974, when on a similar occasion we in opposition told the Government clearly that we would defer the Appropriation Bills until such time as the Government was prepared to go to the people, this Government saw fit to go to the people. I question now: Why the sudden change? Why this stance that has been adopted by the Government? Why these scare tactics that are being used by the Government? It is easy to see the reasons why. In 1974 the Government was reasonably confident that with the economic crisis that was going to develop it was better for it in many ways to have an election at that stage than for it to have to sit through the economic crisis and uncertainty of the future months. So it went to the people on that occasion, but it is not prepared to do so now. It comes down to cold hard politics on the Government's part. It is not prepared to go to the people because it realises that it would be beaten if it did so. 
-I quote the results of the latest gallup poll, which appeared in the  Bulletin  of 1 November. It showed that the results of the poll of 18 October were that the LiberalNational Country Parties were holding some 50 per cent and the Government Party was holding some 43 per cent. They are the cold hard facts at the present time. I repeat, this Government is using double standards; it is breaking conventions and everything else. No government, no party, has adopted more double standards than this Government in its present actions. We have heard many quotations of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and also ex-Senator Murphy, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. I shall mention those again in a minute because I think they should be spelt out as much as we possibly can to let the people of this country see the double standards of this Government. 
Let us look to the other areas of this Government's activities. Consider the loans affair. What is the Government's record of credibility? I say that the credibility of this Government is absolutely bankrupt. In the loans affair we can go back to the Executive Council meeting of 13 December which clearly showed that this Government was prepared to break all conventions and to bypass completely the Constitution. It did this by coming up with the devious and unconstitutional act of saying that it was going to borrow short-term loans from overseas. They were to be short-term loans of some $4000m- I repeat, $4000m- for what the Government described as temporary purposes. They were to be loans that were to be extended over a 20-year period. This has been spelt out by the exMinister,  Mr Connor,  and it is on record. It has been spelt out also by the Prime Minister and by the Executive Council minutes. 
I ask the Government: If it considers that that is a temporary purpose, what if one of them were suddenly picked up and put away in solitary confinement for 20 years? Would he regard that as being temporary? I doubt very much that he would. The same applies with this whole gory scandal of the loans affair. It has seen the enforced resignation of not only a Treasurer but also a  Deputy  Prime Minister. Lately an Acting Prime Minister, the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  also was forced to resign. Both of these senior men, men who in their periods of time have led Australia in the absence of the Prime Minister, have been forced to resign because they misled the Prime Minister, they misled the Cabinet, they misled the Parliament and they misled this country. Those are not my words, they are the words of the Prime Minister. 
We do not stop there. We go on and come to an issue that was debated in this place yesterday. I refer to the ACTU-Solo exercise- an issue that is not to be allowed to be pushed under the rug; an issue that, is full of grave problems; an issue that leaves much to be answered.  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  spelt this out very clearly in the Senate yesterday. There are question marks around this issue. Then of course we find that this week the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has given information, prior to the Budget being presented to the Parliament, to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke.  I admit that some of the honourable senators opposite in the Labor Party have admitted that it was wrong for this to be done. Nevertheless, it happened, and I would go so far as to say that if this had happened 3 years ago no doubt we would have seen the resignation of the Treasurer. But it is becoming customary these days to see so many of these things happening in the Government that people tend to take them as a matter of course. 
We know that in England for lesser reasons 2 Treasurers- Chancellors of the Exchequer- were forced to resign for giving information about the Budget. One; in fact, passed some comment to a pressman, as I understand it, on his way into the Parliament to present the Budget. He was forced to resign. This is not happening now, and it comes back to the credibility of this Government when things like this can happen and the Minister still stays. When we compare this with some of the other things that have happened during the term of this Government we see that this is only one of so many similar occurrences. Conventions have been spoken about considerably in this debate, not only today but on other occasions. We talk also about double standards. Let us look at the contradictions between statements made by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition and the statements he is making today and also the actions he is taking today. I refer to  Hansard  of 25 August 1970, where  Mr Whitlam  is reported as saying: 
Let us take this Budget, and the Government which produced it, to the people themselves. The Parliament has already voted Supply to the end of November. By that time, there can be an election for both Houses. An election therefore would cause no disruption. 
I repeat: 'An election therefore would cause no disruption '. This statement clearly shows that the then Leader of the Opposition expected the Government to pick up its responsibilities if it were defeated and go to the people. That is entirely different from the attitude of the Prime Minister today. I continue the quotation: 
The only thing that will cause disruption is the continuance of the Government. 
In the same speech on the same day the Prime Minister went on to say: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is not mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated, we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
Those words were spoken by the present Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition. Yet he stands up today and accuses the Opposition of double standards and of breaking conventions. I. ask: Who has the double standards? It is all very well to adopt a role in Opposition. It is all very well to adopt a role when one is Prime Minister of this country which is what the Prime Minister did in 1 974. But he is adopting another role today and using scare tactics in the process. I cite another quotation which was given in October 1970. He stated: 
We all know that in British Parliaments the tradition is that if a Money Bill is defeated ... the Government goes to the people to seek their endorsement of its policies. 
Those statements are on record. They were made by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition. 
Today we have heard Ministers in this place stand up and say that we do not have the powers under the Constitution to take the stance which we are taking. But let us look at what the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, had to say.  His  credibility is not questioned by this Government because it saw fit to elevate the then  Senator Murphy  to the High Court where he is now  Mr Justice  Murphy. Let us have none of this poppycock about our actions being unconstitutional. The Labor Party leader of that time, its appointee to the High Court, gave a ruling on the Constitution and the Senate 's powers. He said that the Senate had these powers. As I understand it this was in 1970. He stated: 
In doing this the Opposition is pursuing a tradition which is well established. But in view of some doubt recently cast on it in this chamber perhaps I should restate the position. 
I am quoting the words of  Senator Lionel  Murphy, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. He stated: 
The Senate is entitled and expected to exercise resolutely but with discretion its power to refuse its concurrence to any financial measure - 
I repeat: 'To any financial measure'-  including a tax Bill. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers, except the limitations imposed by discretion and reason. The Australian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure whenever necessary to carry out our principles and policies. The Opposition - has done this over the years and in order to illustrate the tradition which has been established, with the concurrence of honourable senators I shall incorporate in  Hansard  at the end of my speech a list of the measures of an economic or financial nature, including taxation and appropriation Bills, which have been opposed by the Opposition in whole or in part by a vote in the Senate since 1 950. 
That quotation is taken from a speech by former  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition. I understand that those Bills numbered some 160, including taxation and money measures. They were opposed by the Labor Party when it was in opposition. Let us have no more of these double standards. 
We have explained the reason for deferment. There is a difference. We have control of the Bills while they are in this place. The moment the Labor Party is prepared to go to the people, in an instant we can have Supply running. If these Bills go back to the other place the Government gets control, and with the spitefulness of the Prime Minister at the present time, anything could happen. We will not abrogate our responsibility. We will keep control of the Bills in this place so that we can make sure that when the Government accepts its responsibility Supply will start immediately. The Government knows this only too well. I have dealt with the Government's record with regard to double standards. Other honourable senators have spoken about the economy generally and the rundown which has taken place. It is a tragic and unnecessary situation. Today this country faces an economic crisis or a depression. Many have said that it is the worst for some 30 years. Unemployment is heading to a figure in excess of 400 000. That is not my estimation. People in the Labor Party have said that. Others have put the figure higher. So one does not have to go into these other areas to point out the lack of credibility of this Government when it comes to economic management or its lack of economic management. 
This Government has spent so much time and so much of its energy and resources in trying to push its ideologies rather than getting on with the economic management of this country that we are facing one of the results today in the unfortunate economic situation which we have in Australia. It is a situation which is singularly peculiar to Australia at the present time. Other countries did have inflation. Other countries had worse inflation than we had. Other countries were more affected by the energy crisis than Australia. But those countries which had been adversely affected by inflation are today recovering rapidly. We have had a slight upturn but if we believe the economic forecasts which have been given to us by many people there is a minimal short term downturn at the present time in the rate of inflation but the forecasts are that we will see an increase in the rate of inflation again. 
I am . disappointed that there has been. Nobody more than I wants to have a country running properly. It has been a tragedy to see what has happened in this country. Talking about tragedies, let me come back to my own State. Before, I mentioned that this Government was hell bent on pushing its ideologies and its policies rather than engaging in economic management. I refer to a proposed petrochemical industry in South Australia which would have been established at Redcliffs. The industry would have meant a lot of employment. It would have brought other industries. It would have been a very stable industry. In all probability that industry is lost to South Australia today for only one reason and that is the interference of the past Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  He set out to make sure that his policies would be forced upon our Governmenta Labor Government, incidentally- and the Redcliffs project was deferred. It was deferred again. Today, with the escalation of prices through inflation, we have a situation where there is a big question mark as to whether we will ever have a Redcliffs. Without a Redcliffs or some such industry we are also facing problems with our gas fields in the north of South Australia. This tragic effect has been caused through the stupidity, the arrogance and the interference of the Minister and of this Government. 
I also wish to make some comments about the media. We have seen what the Government has done regarding its mistakes in the economy. We have also seen what it has done when it comes to selling its own policies and developing its great propaganda machine. Some months ago I did an assessment of the cost to the taxpayer of Government propaganda in this country. When the figure came from the Government it showed that up to 3 1 May the Government was spending on Government publicity in excess of $lm a month. That is over $250,000 a week. It was primarily being spent on Government propaganda to sell Government policies and to cover up its mistakes. That was the cost to the taxpayer. One can go on in other areas. Let us look at the television and radio world at the present time. I questioned the Special Minister of State  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  on 3 September regarding the issue of licences on a temporary basis under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. Here we are at the end of October and still I am awaiting a reply. We know that there is a big doubt about the legality of issuing licences in this way and I question why the Government is still not prepared to state what is the AttorneyGeneral's opinion on this question. I fully support the concept of public broadcasting and ethnic radio but I question the legality of what the Minister is doing. I am still awaiting an answer from him even though my opinion and outside opinion from other lawyers is that what the Government has done is very questionable. 
We then look to other areas to see what is happening. This Government has established a propaganda machine. In the area of public broadcasting, the number of licences being issued at present is of great concern to this country because the media is one area that must be kept free of Government interference. Licences are being issued willy-nilly and on an ad hoc basis at a time of great advances in technology and when there is every need, as the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and others say, for us to have long term planning in the electronics media in Australia because if we do not we will have much trouble. The Government is taking this action to assist its propaganda machine and I take great exception to it. Here again is a waste of taxpayers' funds. It is another example of the double standards of this Government which says one thing and does another. It is another of the black parts which will go into the record books when this Government finally goes to the people. 
If the socialist sympathisers help the Government, that is for them to answer, not me. I will not answer it. We leave it to others to answer.  Senator Hall  can give the Government all the support it needs. Earlier today an appropriate remark was made about what has happened to this Government with its black record. We have seen what it has done in so many areas. I refer to an earlier statement of  Senator Davidson.  Looking at the record of this Government we see the Murphy ASIO affair, the Gair affair, the Galston affair, the Morosi affair, the loans affair, the dole cheats,  Blue Poles,  overseas junkets, jobs for the boys, the arts, inflation, unemployment, grants, taxes, prices, strikes, business failures and finally we had the 'Csickness' of the Government- Cope, Cameron, 
Cairns, Connor, Crean. There was also  Mr Barnard  who was wise enough to get out before this Government went over the cliff. Despite all these things the Prime Minister still says that he has a mandate and that the Opposition has no right to do what it is doing. He has a short memory. It certainly does not go back to the 1970s. Since those events we have had the ACTU-Solo affair about which much is unanswered. We also have the Hawke-Hayden affair. And so we go on. 
I conclude by quoting from the editorial in the  Daily Mirror  of 15 October this year headed Face up to it, Gough'. It states: 
At last, after three years of bungling, crippling inflation, record jobless and political turmoil, Gough Whitlam has a chance to give the nation a Christmas present. 
A double dissolution. 
A return to sane government. An end to the bickering, the confidence crisis, the  axings  and the political panics which have marked the Labor Party's terms of office. 
Today is likely to mark the beginning of the end for Gough Whitlam 's harum-scarum Government of cowboys. 
The Opposition Leader,  Mr Fraser,  will soon confirm he has taken the plunge: he has chosen, for the good of the nation, to pull the plug and deny Supply. 
And  Mr Whitlam  owes it to Australia to give us a chance to pass judgment on his Government. 
I repeat,  'Mr Whitlam  owes it to Australia to give us a chance to pass judgment on his Government. The editorial continues: 
No more tricks. No half Senate elections. No more political ploys to stave off our chance to have our say through the ballot boxes. 
WE DEMAND A DOUBLE DISSOLUTION. 
Any move by  Mr Whitlam  to deny a double dissolution will be seen as a shabby attempt to cling to power at a time when the nation deserves its say. 
And we deserve it because we can no longer afford this kind of government. We cannot afford to live among the top inflation nations of the world. We cannot afford a bankrupting deficit of $4,000 million. We cannot afford more Asio, Gair or Loans Affairs. 
Gough must give us our say- in both Houses. And the sooner the better. 
Many other such statements have appeared in the newspapers of Australia. This Government has dug its heels in. It has employed scare tactics in the community. It has done everything but face up to its responsibilities and obligations, and by taking the stance it has it is adopting a double standard. We in the Opposition are not seeking power. We are seeking to give the people of this country the democratic right to pass judgment on the Government or the Opposition. At least we have accepted our obligation and I challenge the Government to accept its obligation. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Is he aware that even though I have asked this question on many occasions, it is now 2 months since I first asked it? The question is whether the issuing of radio licences by the Government under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act rather than under the Broadcasting and Television Act is legal, and whether the Government has received an opinion from the Attorney-General on this matter. I also ask the Postmaster-General: Is he aware that there are legal opinions which question the legality of the issue of such licences? As he has had the opinion of the Attorney-General on this matter for some time, will he now present it to the Senate; if not, is it because the AttorneyGeneral's opinion also places in question the issue of such licences? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the statement put down yesterday in the Senate as a result of the opinion given by the Attorney-General on the issuing of radio licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that there are many legal opinions which place great question upon the legality or otherwise of the issuing of licences under this Act. Also as a result of his own statements in which questions are raised with regard to the previous methods by which the Minister has issued some of these licences, will the Minister now table the opinion given by the Attorney-General? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Are reports correct that the Government is using large numbers of public servants and spending a great amount of money on operation 'dirty tricks', which is similar to that which was being conducted by  President  Nixon in the United States of America in an endeavour to obtain any issue the Government can use against any member of the Opposition? Were not the misleading statements and accusations against  Mr Anthony  and the Central Intelligence Agency one example of operation dirty tricks and the Government's malicious endeavour to smear any member of the Opposition? 

 -Mr President, I rise to offer you my sincere congratulations on your election to the high office which you have attained today. You have been given this office with the confidence of the Senate chamber. The office has been given to a man with long and esteemed parliamentary experience, during which time you have won the respect of your colleagues on both sides of the chamber. I am certain that the high office which you hold today will continue whilst it is in your hands with the dignity and all of the standards and qualities that have gone before. I should like also to offer to  Mrs Laucke  my best wishes. I know that you will carry out your duties with great dignity and I trust also that as well as being of great benefit to the Senate chamber your appointment will be of immense pleasure to both of you. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Can the Minister say what is the latest position regarding the establishment of a consortium of Japanese and Australian interests for the building of a 4- cylinder car engine in South Australia? Does the Minister foresee the establishment of such a consortium? 
I  rise to join in this debate.  I  take the opportunity again of congratulating you,  Mr President,  and wishing you well in your high office. You have been in the chair for 2 days and all honourable senators have seen how you will conduct the Senate.  I  would like also to extend a very warm welcome to all new honourable senators, irrespective of which side of the chamber they sit.  I  hope they will gain a lot of pleasure and a lot of satisfaction from taking part in debates on general legislation and in the overall administration of this great country of ours.  I  congratulate very warmly  Senator Knight  from the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Kilgariff  from the Northern Territory and  Senator Tony  Messner from South Australia, who made their maiden speeches today. As an honourable senator who is sitting on the same side of the chamber  I  can say that we are delighted to see the quality of the new senators who have come into this place.  I  am certain that the other honourable senators who are yet to make their maiden speeches will make valuable contributions to debates in this chamber. 
I should like now to refer to the events of yesterday.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to them in his speech.  Senator James  McClelland did likewise, as did the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  when he led for the Opposition. No doubt other Labor senators will refer to the events leading up to yesterday. I can only say that I regard it as a tragedy for the Australian Labor Party and for the institution of the Parliament that the members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition saw fit to boycott the opening of Parliament. They may have disagreed with the ruling that was given by the Queen's representative. But yesterday this Parliament was opened in the name of the Queen. 
We know the history of the Labor Party when it was in government. It abused the forms and the institutions of the Parliament.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said tonight that he hoped the democratic processes of the parliamentary institution would continue in Australia and would not be endangered in any way. I can only say that the example set yesterday by the Australian Labor Party is a great start, not only in the denigration of the Parliament, but in the total decimation of the democratic parliamentary institution of his country. There is no doubt that the Australian Labor Party will be reminded of this for some time to come, because for too long it took many of the people of the electorate to be fools. Any politician who takes people to be fools is a fool himself. The action taken by the Australian Labor Party yesterday was very foolish. It is not the first time that the Labor Party has abused the forms of the Parliament. One only has to cast one's mind back to the Khemlani exercise- that famous exercise which will go down in history. That was a clear example of what the Executive of the Australian Labor Party, when in government, tried to do in circumventing the institution of the Parliament itself. 
This is exactly what happened without any doubt. An honourable senator says 'Rubbish'. Everybody is entitled to his own opinion, but that was one clear example of what Opposition senators thought of the institution of parliament. When in government they were drunk with power. Yesterday Opposition senator behaved this way again and I, as a member of this Senate irrespective of the fact that I sit on the Government side of the chamber, regretted very much the actions that they took. 
By all means criticise decisions, but keep the criticisms to those decisions. Honourable senators opposite should not bring their condemnation to the institution of the Parliament itself. The institution of the Parliament that we have is something that we must work to protect. We have one of the greatest institutions in the world but it will not survive in the manner and method in which it operates today if political parties continue to treat it with the contempt with which it was treated yesterday. 
Two Labor Party senators,  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, tonight criticised decisions of the Governor-General but they did not deal with personalities. Unfortunately one honourable senator,  Senator James  McClelland, saw fit to do so.  Senator James  McClelland was a Minister in the Labor Government. Perhaps unfortunately for the Labor Government it saw his abilities too late in its history.  Senator James  McClelland made a name for himself and commanded quite a deal of respect in the electorate of this country. I regret very much that tonight he has demeaned himself in such a manner.  His  actions were more than petty. He stooped to the level of repeating in a public forum private conversations which he had with the Governor-General. I do not care whether it be a private conversation with a member of a committee or a private conversation with Tom Brown or with any other individual in the street, a private conversation had in confidence remains, to my mind, a private conversation. Yet tonight we heard  Senator James  McClelland refer to confidential conversations that took place, as I understand it, across the dining table in Government House in Canberra. If it could be worse, he repeated details of a private telephone discussion that took place between himself and the Governor-General. 
I think it is unfortunate that in order to put his argument  Senator James  McClelland saw fit to reveal details of this private conversation. I was surprised. I regret that I have to make these comments in his absence. He is absent at the present time but he is usually in the chamber; he is recognised as a hard-working senator. I could not forgo the opportunity of making a comment on this matter. To me it is a matter of grave concern. I hope that other Opposition senators will show a little respect for confidences and conversations that take place between themselves and other individuals. Irrespective of political argument, there are certain standards and forms that we must uphold in this place, and that is one of them. 
Much has been said about the pros and cons of the Governor-General's decision. Much has been said about the attitudes and advice given by other people to the Prime Minister and to some of his Ministers at that time. Much has been said in condemnation of the final decision that was given. Much has been said in condemnation of the new Liberal-National Country Party Government. I can only remind the Opposition that  Mr Whitlam,  as Leader of the Labor Party, spent quite a deal of time during the recent election campaign discussing these very issues. Tonight the Labor Party senators see fit to continue to campaign on these very same issues. What happened when  Mr Whitlam  and the members of his Party campaigned on these issues? The Labor Party was jolly near decimated at the recent election. I should think that would be the answer to what the Australian electorate thought about the whole matter. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland tonight referred to the fact that the Whitlam Government had been elected in 1972 for a 3-year term. At the end of 18 months, because of the actions of the Senate, it was forced to go to the people. I remind honourable senators opposite that in the election of 1974 the Whitlam Government was returned to office with a marginal majority. It was not returned with a majority in this place; it had a minority in this place. I say that to correct  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's statement. Let me take this point a little further. The theme of the Labor Party campaign in 1974 was 'Give Us a Go. We have only had 18 months. Granted, a few things have gone wrong. Granted, we have problems with the economy. We have inflation. We have some unemployment but it is what is happening overseas, anyway. But we can assure you that times are getting better. Indications are that unemployment is going to be reduced. Indications are that inflation is coming down. So give us a go. ' 
At that time the Labor Government had an estimated Budget deficit of some $500m. This later rose to between $2,000m and $2,500m. As I have said, the Labor Party got back into power marginally in the 1974 election. Labor having been given a go, after having misled the Australian community into believing that the economy was improving and that unemployment was coming down, what did we eventually find? We found all sorts of things happening- the Khemlani exercise and the lack of credibility of the Government. The Government was collapsing from within. Far more tragically than that we found that Australia was collapsing from within. The economy was racing at a frightening rate and inflation was heading for a rate of 20 per cent. Unemployment figures reached the highest in the history of this country. Coupled with everything else that was going on was the Khemlani issue. That was the final issue of the lot. There was Government corruption from within and I use those words advisedly. I say with all respect to Opposition senators that some of their own Ministers and colleagues used that word 'without' but meant 'within'. We had an election and we have seen the results. I refer again to the fact that unfortunately no member of the Opposition saw fit to attend for the presentation of the Speech given by the GovernorGeneral yesterday. I would like to spend a little time tonight quoting a few passages of the Governor-General's Speech for the benefit of Opposition senators. There is great virtue in much of the language in his Speech. He said: 
The Government's long term objective is to prevent the growth of centralised bureaucratic domination in Australia, the increasing dependence of individuals on the state. 
How significant those words are. The previous Government's policy was: 'Centralism right down the line', and its actions clearly demonstrated this. 'Take away from the individual. Give it to the state. We will direct from Canberra'. That is the reverse of the policy of the present Government which, as the GovernorGeneral stated yesterday, is:   to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have a maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways which they decide. 
What a change from what the policy has been for the last 3 years. I can only say: Thank goodness there has been a change. I do not know how much longer Australia could have afforded the luxury, if I can call it that, of the implementation of the ideologies of the Labor Party socialist philosophy. Fortunately for Australia, the people had the opportunity and were wise enough to make sure that that Government was replaced. 
Let me read a further excerpt from the Governor-General's Speech: He said: 
At the root of the economic crisis is a steadily increasing tax burden required to finance, at the expense of the private sector, an ever-growing public sector. Measures to deal with this crisis will advance Australia towards the long term goal of a society based on freedom and on the mutual respect freedom makes possible. 
Again, that word 'freedom' is emphasised and re-emphasised. The Governor-General continued: 
The Government's strategy to achieve its objectives can be summarised as follows: 
1 ) There will be a major direction of resources away from Government towards individuals and private enterprise; 

 Senator Messner in his maiden speech tonight made reference to the tragedy of what has happened to small business in this country in the last few years. Again, the previous Government blindly went its own way hell bent on its socialist ideologies not caring about and irrespective of what was happening generally in the electorate and in the business world. We saw so many small businesses falling by the wayside. We did not see those small businesses that had fallen being replaced by other small businesses, as usually is the pattern. Fortunately, over the years in Australia whilst many small businesses went out of existence- they will continue to do so- they were being replaced by businesses in greater number as Australia for so long was expanding its economy. There was a growth, a fervour, a dynamo in this country. 
Today we have reached a situation where it will take a long time for the economy to recover. So much damage has been done- fortunately it is not irreparable but nevertheless it is extremely serious- that it will take a long time to return confidence to people and to industry and commerce and to get Australia really moving again. I can only say that already one can see confidence and one can sense confidence returning in the electorate. No doubt by the end of this year we will see it spreading through into business. My hope is that we will see a downturn not only in the rate of inflation - 
My hope is that we will see not only a slowing down of inflation but also a downturn in the level of unemployment. It is interesting to note the comment that was passed by my friend and colleague opposite,  Senator Mulvihill,  who made reference to mining.  Senator Mulvihill  is a great conservationist. But tragically, in common with his colleagues, he is a great socialist. He was prepared to allow the mining industry of this country to run down completely and totally.  Mr Connor,  a former Minister for Minerals and Energy, will go down in the history of this country, and he will not be remembered kindly. 
Thinking of mining, I turn to exploration in the oil industry. This has practically ground to a standstill. There is an ocean drilling rig in Fremantle in Western Australia. That was built in Western Australia. It is still in the place where it was completed, to my knowledge, some 18 months ago. It is going rusty because there is absolutely no work for it. But when the plans were drawn up and the contract was let for the building of that rig, exploration in this country was moving so rapidly that there was a need not only for that extra oil rig for outside off-shore exploration but for other rigs like it. But what happened? 

 Mr Connor decided that he would run the mining industry on his terms. Overseas investment and overseas finance were dirty words. In fact this was regarded by the Labor Party as filthy money. So, what did the overseas financiers do? What did the exploration companies do? At a time when throughout the world an energy crisis had arisen and at a time when our reserves and resources were running down, they turned their backs on Australia. The previous Government saw fit, because of its own stupidity and its fixation on its own ideologies, to say: 'No overseas capital whatsoever'. The deep freeze was imposed. Finally the former Government eased its restrictions, but the damage had been done. 
To top that action off,  Mr Connor  moved on the north-west shelf and said: 'This is mine; I will handle it'. We in this country have been sitting on reserves in our north-west shelf amounting to trillions of cubic feet of natural gas. That resource lies idle, yet to be developed. It is a vast field of unknown quantities of gas with probably- I hope there is- unknown quantities of liquid hydro-carbons, crude oil. That field has not been developed. Western Australia would like that natural gas. An export demand exists for natural gas. But no;  Mr Connor  would not allow this. 
Now, if we want to develop this field, we find that the expenses have risen to such an extenthere I am quoting the prices as I understand them- that the cost of developing that field on the north-west shelf alone continues to escalate at the rate of $ 150,000 a day. I invite honourable senators to tot that figure up in terms of weeks, months and years and see the figure that is required now to develop that field. This is the result of the blind stupidity not only of a former Minister but of the Government of the day which backed him. That is what has gone on. As a South Australian, I turn to my own State and mention the concept of the Red Cliffs petrochemical scheme. This was a multi-million dollar exercise. It was something that we would very much like to have had in South Australia. It would have culminated in the development of further industry that would give great employment to great numbers of people. But because of the interference again of the former Federal Government against the desires of the Labor 
Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  we find that scheme is now in jeopardy. One does not know what will happen. In South Australia we have vast resources of natural gas. But we want an outlet for the wet gases. We want an outlet for our liquids. We have problems in our State now, again because of the interference by the Labor Government when it was in power. This country needs incentives for people and companies to get out and to keep on developing, expanding and producing. I have referred to what is happening in the mining world. Let us look next at what is happening in the manufacturing industries. 
Why have we unemployment today? Is it because industry does not want to employ people, because it does not like people, or is it because industry could not sell the goods that it was manufacturing? Is it because industry could not afford to expand as the Labor Party had decided that profit was a dirty word. This attitude continued for a long time until late last year when the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Whitlam, Dr J.  F. Cairns and a few others realised that it was more than time for profits in this country and there was also a need for incentives. There was a need for private enterprise in this country. They suddenly decided that profit was not so bad and said: 'We will accept some profit in this country'. But again the damage had been done. 
This has been the sad history of Australia, a country that was the envy of so many other countries. Australia was a country full of potential; a country that was making use of its resources and its potentials. But because of the blind politics and ideologies of a certain political party in power, because of the mis-allocation of resources, because of its doctrinaire socialist policies by which the Government was to take in all and spend all, we have had excess spending by that Government and a total mis-allocation of resources culminating in a crisis situation in our economy. A tragic situation has been created in the employment field where today young people cannot get jobs. That is what the Fraser Government has taken over. 
I wish I had sufficient time to read the whole of the Governor-General's Speech into the  Hansard  record tonight. That Speech sets out very clearly not just the desires but also the aims of a government whose prime motive is to get this country moving again, to restrain inflation, to reduce unemployment, to get industry moving and to get back confidence in this country not only internally but also overseas. One is very much aware of the fact that the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  saw fit to go to Japan recently- he returned home the day before the 
Parliament commenced sitting- for discussions and to repair some of the damage that had been done to our relationship with this major trading partner of ours by the Whitlam Government. We have also seen  Mr Peacock  being accepted by countries in the South East Asia area. 
There is reference in the Governor-General's Speech to the Association of South East Asian Nations, which is an important body. South East Asia is a very important area of the world. Its people are our neighbours. They were looking to Australia for some assistance, but no assistancenot even encouragement- was given to them by the Whitlam Government. On top of all of this we saw the Whitlam Government abuse a great ally of ours which showed how great it was in the 1939-45 period and which no doubt would come to our assistance again if we had trouble. One does not abuse one's friends, but the Whitlam Government saw fit to pour abuse on the United States of America. Those things are being repaired. We are working not only internally but also externally to get Australia moving again. We are trying to gain some respect for Australia not just among the Third World powers but also in other areas. If one wishes to live with people in this world, if one wishes to work with people in this world and if one wishes to command the respect of people in this world one must also show respect. That is something that was lacking in the dealings with so many of the very important countries that are friends and neighbours of ours and something that is being restored by the Fraser Government. 
There are many other subjects on which I would like to touch tonight, but my time is nearly up. I simply wish to say that we have come into government at probably the most critical time in the history of Australia. As a government we will do some things that perhaps will not be electorally popular in the short term, but our aim is to do for Australia those things that will not only get Australia moving again but also get Australia moving again in such a way that the effects and the results of this Government will be felt, appreciated and admired by the people who will be deriving the benefits in the longer term. I have very much pleasure in supporting the motion. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. What stage of construction has been reached in the building of the Dartmouth Dam and what is the present scheduled completion date? Is it anticipated that the dam will be completed on that date? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Following the decisions of the High Court in relation to federal authority in the off-shore areas, what is the present situation regarding State fishing laws? Is the Minister aware that prawn boats, unlicensed by the South Australian Fishing Authority, are fishing prawn grounds normally fished by licensed South Australian boats? As there is a need for control to protect the prawn grounds in South Australia's off-shore waters, will the Minister give authority to the State governments to apply their State laws in relation to fishing and the licensing of boats as has been done in the case of lobster fishing, or is the current situation to continue which could lead to an embarrassing situation such as the cod war in the North Sea? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty to apply only from 12 February this year has prevented some farmers who took delivery of superphosphate before that date from having the benefit of the bounty? Is the Minister also aware that only some 1 8 000 tonnes of superphosphate was delivered from 1 January to 12 February by the South Australian manufacturers, which would have involved a bounty payment of some $2 12,500? If this amount is indicative of the proportionate amounts in other States, is it not a small percentage of the estimated $17m- $20m bounty for this calendar year? As the bounty is being operated on a calendar year basis, will the Government pay the bounty retrospectively from 1 January this year so that those users who purchased superphosphate from that date will not be disadvantaged? 
-I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: As there is a continual need for the protection of the environment in this country, will the Minister state what is the policy in relation to federal funding of both the national park lands acquisition program and the Australian Heritage Commission? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the reported $500,000 loan from the Iraqis to the Australian Labor Party which has been reported so frequently in the Press in the last few days. Has he any information as to what currency was being used for this proposed $500,000 loan to the Australian Labor Party? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications refers to fringe advertising. As many businesses give great assistance to sport generally in the form of sponsorships, the attempted abolition of fringe advertising would greatly affect sport generally in this country. Is the Minister aware that it would be practically impossible to stop fringe advertising generally? I refer to such things as brand names on tennis racquets, and the televising of test cricket in England. One could give many other examples. I ask: What is the Government's attitude towards fringe advertising in relation to the telecasting of sporting events? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, relates to a report in yesterday's South Australian  Advertiser  referring to the serious plight of the wine and brandy industry. I ask the Minister whether he is aware of estimates that some 1500 tonnes of wine grapes may not be harvested in South Australia this year as wineries are unable to purchase them due to the impact of section 31A of the Income Tax Assessment Act and to the importation of cheap overseas brandy. Is the Minister also aware that for quite some time the production of Australian brandy has been the buffer in the wine industry but over the last few years imported brandy has taken away some 25 per cent of Australian sales from the locally produced brandy? As much of this critical situation in the industry results from excessive taxes on Australian brandy which were imposed by the previous Whitlam Government, will this Government give serious consideration to reassessing the tax on Australian brandy to help the industry generally; that is, the growers, the wineries and the Australian consumers? 
Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen reports in yesterday's Press that Chrysler Australia Ltd may go it alone in the production of 4-cylinder car engines and have the backing of the South Australian Government? Following the recent announcement by General-Motors Holden 's Pty Ltd that it is also to produce a 4-cylinder car engine, can the Minister say what effect this latest decision will have on the proposed Australian- Japanese consortium to produce 4-cylinder car engines in Australia and also on the Australian content in locally produced cars, particularly in relation to suggestions that it be reduced to 85 per cent? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Following the Minister's offer of amnesty for illegal migrants in Australia to come forward and apply for permanent residence in Australia, I ask the Minister whether the latest figure of some 6590 applicants can be regarded as not being a very good response. Is it not a fact that it is estimated that there are still 26 000 prohibited migrants- that is, visitors who had over-stayed at 31 December 1975- who have yet to apply? With the response not as satisfactory as hoped, due possibly to a misunderstanding by many of these people that they would be giving themselves up, and as many of them may fear coming into contact with authority such as the Public Service, in this case the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, I ask: Will the Minister give serious consideration to adopting another approach by suggesting that they get in touch with the Good Neighbour Council, with all of its resources, where persons could explain and offer guidance in the migrants' mother tongues regarding the Minister's offer of amnesty? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that some mailbag delivery services have been greatly reduced, even though the cost of a mailbag postal service has increased by 100 per cent in the last 12 months, due to the policy of the previous Government? As mail services, including mailbag services, are an important and necessary part of communication in rural areas as well as in urban areas, will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he will give consideration to improving those country mail services where no great cost increase is incurred, and I emphasise, because of the economic situation, 'where no great cost increase is incurred  1 
As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, I am very pleased to be taking part in this debate. Excluding Papua New Guinea, Indonesia is Australia's closest neighbour. It is a nation comprising some 6000 islands with a population of approximately 130 million people. It is a country that is the fifth most populous of any nation in the world. It does represent a great potential for future trade not only with Australia but also throughout the regions of South-East Asia and the rest of the world. I say that with a view to long term prospects. But there is a need that we do develop trade with Indonesia. There is a need that we encourage the development of production and trade within Indonesia, as must apply to all partly developed and underdeveloped countries throughout the world. One of the best ways in which to establish international friendships is through development and trade between countries. Indonesia is a member of the ASEAN groups of nations- that is, the Association of South-East Asian Nations- which includes Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. This is a very important area of the world and Indonesia plays a very important part in it. lt is important that Australia as a neighbouring nation should also give encouragement and support to the nations within the ASEAN group, and by support I mean more than just verbal support and platitudes. There is a need to continue both physical and moral support because the whole structure of ASEAN is one of socioeconomic respect and development. If this development can continue and if we as one of the neighbouring nations can play our part in the area, we can look hopefully to the future and see unity in the region and regional security, which is most important. As time goes on this area will develop as one of the important areas, particularly in terms of trade. 
For that reason I was particularly pleased to see that taken up by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade was a reference dealing with the prospects for the development of trade between Australia and Indonesia. Indonesia has had an interesting and rather traumatic history. As we all know, it was originally a Dutch colony whose history goes back for centuries. Development did take place but a great deal of the product of that development left Indonesia. There was some benefit to Indonesia in monetary terms- though one could say that there was not a great deal of benefit- and eventually we saw independence come to Indonesia. However, in the fight for independence we saw the rise of  President  Sukarno whose regime tragically as time went by brought economic and political instability and a great rundown in what had been the structural developments of that country- the roads, the railways, the ports and other infrastructures. They literally ran down and jolly near collapsed. In 1964-65 Indonesia saw a change in leadership when  President  Suharto took over. Indonesia then was facing great economic problems. It had made heavy overseas borrowings, was heavily in debt and economically run down. Since then we have seen political stability within that country and the development of 5-year plans. In addition we have seen economic stability. In fact, the economy today in Indonesia is possibly brighter than it has been for a long time or has ever been. 
There are factors that have played an important part in this development and one must look to the part that the oil industry has played. Indonesia has been a major producer of crude oil and the big increases in oil prices over the last two or three years have brought great benefit to Indonesia. No longer is she troubled with the external balance of payments problem which plagued her for many years. However, Indonesia cannot rest solely on her oil resources because at this stage her known reserves of oil are approximately 20 years at current production levels. It is necessary, therefore, that Indonesia should broaden her economic base and diversify her economy if she is to develop as a trading nation and increase her trade not only with her neighbours in the region of South East Asia, including Australia, but also throughout the world. Having said that, oil still will play a big part in her export earnings for many years to come. 
There are other areas of production in Indonesia which also play an important part. One of these is her deposits of hydro-carbons. I refer particularly to natural gas, the dry hydrocarbons of which Indonesia has an abundance. This has enabled her, during the critical periods in the energy crisis and despite high costs, to produce fertilisers at a price cheaper than the price of fertilisers produced by other countries. This has greatly assisted the development of agriculture, and through the use of sulphate of ammonia and urea, Indonesia has been able to increase her production of one agricultural product in particular- her staple diet, rice. There are other areas in which Indonesia can benefit from development of hydro-carbons and I refer mainly to by-products such as plastics and synthetics. Here there is a great opportunity for Indonesia eventually to develop a textile industry from her locally produced synthetics. One would hope that as time goes on, with the assistance of other countries in the areas of technology, finance and investment on a joint basis and a say in management, Indonesia will see the development of some of these industries related to her base products. 
Whilst there has been a big expansion in the production of rice in Indonesia, she is still a long way from self-sufficiency and will continue to rely on the importation of rice for quite a while. Earlier we heard comments about one of the problems resulting from the great population increase in Indonesia and I relate that problem to the need to increase production of the staple food, rice. But one does not stop there because with economic development one does not refer just to increased population. Hand in hand with economic development goes social development and a greater opportunity and demand for people to live at a higher standard of living with better and bigger diets. As time goes on and development takes place in Indonesia greater demands will be placed upon her local products if she is to be anywhere near self-sufficient in the supply of foodstuffs. 
Indonesia exports some livestock, not in any great way but it is an area of potential. I refer to the production and export of cattle, pigs and seafood. There is much more that can be done in this area. Australia can play a part by assisting the development of Indonesia with our technology and by making available some of the breeds of cattle that we have that would be suitable for production and development in that country. Indonesia has quite a diversity of minerals and a significant potential for their development. In tin alone Indonesia is the third largest producer in the world. She is developing into one of the major producers of copper in the world and still has major deposits which are as yet underdeveloped. Bauxite production today is in the vicinity of one and a quarter million tonnes and proposals are under way for the establishment of an alumina plant which will take Indonesia into the more sophisticated area of refining and the establishment of an aluminium industry, for which there is so much demand. Indonesia has been blessed with quite high grade deposits of bauxite but as a result of the production that has taken place over the years these deposits are becoming depleted. However, there is an abundance of low grade bauxite in Indonesia. One can look also at coal, nickel and iron ore. But iron and steel production in Indonesia is still extremely small and she is, as a matter of fact, importing from Australia some 48 500 tonnes annually which is assisting in the development of that country and in the development of many of the industries. With the assistance that is being given and the policies introduced under the 5-year plans by the Suharto Government, Indonesia is now making plans to increase greatly its own steel production. 
I mentioned earlier that Indonesia has promising mineral deposits. In discussion with various witnesses the Committee was told that a great deal ofthe country still has not been prospected, but there is evidence that rich mineral resources are scattered throughout the country. Granted, some are not in very accessible spots, so great costs would be involved in extraction. Nevertheless with all the richness of some of these deposits the future for mineral development in Indonesia is very encouraging and has great potential. 
I turn now to other areas of production and export. I refer to tea and coffee which are still major export commodities for Indonesia. There are problems which the export of tea from Indonesia similar to those which apply to many of the other tea producing countries because of the saturation of world demand at present. Indonesia is a major producer of palm oil which brings in quite a deal of revenue. I have been dealing basically with raw material production within the country. The same does not apply to the manufacturing industry. Manufacturing is basically on a very small scale and the bulk of the production is mainly absorbed within Indonesia 's domestic or local market. 
Earlier reference was made by  Senator Coleman  to the cottage industries within Indonesia. These play a very important part. They have been encouraged because they are labour intensive, localised and diversified and thus are playing a very important part in the small scale production in Indonesia. There is room for greater encouragement and assistance in this area, as there is in the areas of design and so on, to let these industries know what the demand is in other countries where an export market can be developed. It is no good producing a type of good that is not suitable for an export market. There is a need for greater communication and assistance in the development of export markets for cottage industries. A lot of encouragement is being given to the development of large scale manufacturing which in turn must lead to the development of export markets for Indonesia. The Indonesian Government, whilst being very conscious of its national needs at the same time is giving great encouragement with taxation and other concessions to overseas investors to come in and assist in the development of the country in the fields of manufacturing and minerals processing. At the same time the Government is making sure that Indonesia will retain its assets in the long term for itself. From what we gathered on the Committee there has been quite a good response in this area, even though problems have occurred in many cases because of misunderstandings through lack of communication between those who are interested in the development of industry within Indonesia and not fully understanding the way of life of Indonesians and the way they go about their discussions. I will mention a bit more about this later. 
There is very little heavy industry at present. One could say that the motor car industry is nonexistent. All motor vehicles are imported into Indonesia. There is one great restriction. All motor vehicles imported into Indonesia must be on a knock-down basis. In other words they are brought into the country unassembled and are assembled in Indonesia. This creates an opportunity for employment for many people. Australia herself plays quite a big part in the export of motor vehicles to Indonesia. In fact with the exception of Japan, which is by far the greatest exporter of motor vehicles to Indonesia, Australia would be regarded as one of the major suppliers. At the same time the Indonesian Government is keen for development in the hope that perhaps one day it can have its own viable motor industry. Programs and plans have already been made for the production of component parts for the motor industry in Indonesia, not just for spare parts for the vehicles used within that country but with the aim that eventually component parts can be supplied to the major manufacturers of motor vehicles in the region. I refer to Japan and perhaps the United States of America and Australia. 
It is interesting to see the increase in trade between Australia and Indonesia. No longer can Australia be regarded as one of the minor trading partners with Indonesia. Figures for 1969-70 show that Australia imported from Indonesia goods valued at some $48.9m and exported goods to the value of $3 5. 2m. The figures for 1974-75- these are only preliminary figures; I was unable to get the full figures confirmedshow that Australia's imports in 1974-75 were valued at $18. 8m. I remind honourable senators that in 1969-70 imports were valued at $48.9m. Exports in 1974-75 stood at $ 173.5m. There has been a great upturn in exports from Australia. The reason for the increase in the development of trade between the 2 countries is that Australia is developing and expanding her exports whilst at the same time imports from Indonesia are unfortunately gradually being reduced. I appreciate that Australia earlier imported quite a bit of crude oil from Indonesia and hence this would have made a great difference to the figures. I hope that as time goes on we can see more of a balance of trade between Australia and Indonesia- a 2-way trade- than we are seeing at present. It would appear unlikely that in the short term we can see any big increase in exports from Indonesia to Australia. 
It is unfortunate that at present Indonesia virtually does not produce many commodities which have a great Australian demand. The products that are produced and are suitable for Australia are also produced in other developing countries in South-East Asia and so there is competition between the countries in South-East Asia in trying to develop and capture the Australian market. I wish to quote from page 4 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade which deals with some aspects of items of trade between Australia and Indonesia. Conclusion No. 7 reads: 
It is not easy to identify commodities imported from Indonesia for which any very considerable growth in trade can be predicted. Timber probably shows the greatest potential, followed by coffee and rubber. Other imports may be expected to show unspectacular but steady increases. In the long term, petroleum-derived chemical products and low cost manufactured goods may become significant. The resumption of imports of Indonesian oil is also possible. 
One other area where there is quite a deal of potential is tourism. Witnesses came before the Committee and spoke encouragingly of the potential for tourism between Australia and Indonesia. There is a need for greater advertising and better communication to be given to Australians so that they will have an understanding and an appreciation of the tourist attractions in Indonesia. I feel that if this is done it is one way of getting towards the goal of a balance of trade between our 2 countries. Of course, as time goes on I hope that the reverse situation will also apply and that Indonesians will come to this country to see our attractions. Also I hope that Australians will go to Indonesia in greater numbers. If this situation obtains, the people within our 2 nations will have a better understanding of each other which comes only from working together. This is essential. I hope that tourism will be expanded within Australia and Indonesia because it can play a very important part, far beyond its revenue earning capacity. 
As time goes on and as we see the various 5-year plans which have been introduced and which are in operation in Indonesia, we hope that we will see an expanding economy within Indonesia which will automatically parallel economic developments. This will give greater opportunities for increases in Australia's exports. This is where Australia can play an important part. We should look on Indonesia not just as a revenue earner; we should give assistance in its development. I refer to areas of capital equipment. Australian machinery can be used for the development of agriculture in Indonesia. Australia, as it does in other countries, can play an important part with the sophisticated machinery which we have today for the clearing of scrub, the development of land and in cultivation and production. Again, in the field of mining, in the construction of roads and in the upgrading of the rail and other systems throughout Indonesia, Australia can play an important part. This is so not only in producing and selling to Indonesia heavy capital equipment but also in the usage of that capital equipment. This will help in the development of the country. 
Yes, we do. I will make reference to our overseas aid later on when I come to that area. I have spoken about the areas of potential for the development of trade between Australia and Indonesia. There is an unfortunate factor which greatly inhibits trade.  Senator Devitt  's comment to me a moment ago will bring this matter home to him. It is the problem of shipping with the high cost of shipping freight rates. This is a great problem. I do not know how we will solve the problem while the volume of trade is not very great. The situation is that there is an infrequency of service with very high freight rates. On top of this, Indonesian ports do not have modern port facilities. They are unable to handle containerisation. Additionally, Indonesia is a nation of some 6000 islands so one can appreciate that there are problems with outlying pons to service the central ports and to work in with the main shipping companies, both inwards and outwards. 
There is a great need for port modernisation. This will cost a terrific amount of money. Plans and processes are under way at the present time for the improvement of port facilities. But one wonders how long it will be before the ports are improved and developed to the stage of sophistication which exists in Australia and in other major trading countries and which can easily and effectively operate with containerisation. One appreciates that there is a high volume of labour in Indonesia. One appreciates that Indonesia probably does not have the industrial problems which we have on our waterfronts. Indonesia would not have the high cost of labour which we have on our waterfronts. So as Indonesia perhaps sees it there is not a great need for containerisation. That is all very well for Indonesian ports but it is an entirely different story when it gets to the other side of the shipping run in which trading partners are involved. So one wonders how we will overcome the great problems in the area of shipping between Indonesia and Australia. As I said before, one hopes that one will see the modernisation of ports with amenities and facilities which will enable a quicker turn around of ships. 
As trade develops we hope that we will get a more predictable round trip pattern of shipping so that trade between Australia and Indonesia will flow more easily than it has in the past. At times it is very difficult for exporters to be able to predict when their goods will arrive in one of the Indonesian ports because of the infrequency and, in the past, the unreliability of the service. One runs into other problems because there is a great need to upgrade transportation away from the ports into the inland areas of Indonesia. While many roads were developed in the colonial days when the Dutch were in control of the country, many of those roads have deteriorated. This has happened with some of the rail systems. The roads are being upgraded and there are plans to develop more road systems throughout Indonesia. But this costs money and it depends on how one allocates the priorities within the country. 
There are social needs within the country besides the physical needs of developing and upgrading the road and rail systems. Indonesia is faced with grave problems. They will continue for a long time. All these things are directly related to the economic development of Indonesia. It has the potential to become an exporter and a trader. These matters, in turn, greatly affect trade between Australia and Indonesia. It will take a lot of assistance from a lot of countries to help Indonesia. Earlier today I said that Indonesia does not have the great problems it once had with its overseas balance of trade. In fact, today it is sitting in quite a favourable position due to the high price of oil. Nevertheless, overall Indonesia can still be regarded as only a relatively poor country which will require continued assistance for its development. Australia has played and is continuing to play its part in the area of aid to Indonesia. 
It is interesting to note that much of our financial assistance which was given a few years ago and which is continuing to be given today has changed from assistance to help in the balance of payments. Indonesia was running down so badly because of its adverse balance of payments position. Today Australia is giving assistance in the area of infrastructural development and education. Australian aid to Indonesia has grown considerably in the past decade. Indonesia is now the second largest recipient of Australian aid after Papua New Guinea. Australia is now involved in some 30 development assistance programs covering telecommunications, roads, railways, port rehabilitation, irrigation schemes, plant quarantine, animal husbandry, water supplies, public health, education and so forth. Australia has been giving assistance- I hope it will continue to give assistance- in these important areas of need within Indonesia. Whilst there are encouraging signs for potential development within Indonesia, there is a great need for all countries to continue to give assistance. A need to assist other under-developed countries still exists. I refer particularly to the Association of SouthEast Asian Nations group. As I said earlier, if we can assist in the economic development of these countries to bring about a sound economy and opportunity for people within those countries, we will find that economic development and, particularly, economic stability will assist greatly in the maintenance of political stability within those countries. If these countries can continue to work together in the harmonious way in which they have done in the past- I hope they will- in supporting the ASEAN group we can look forward to having regional security within the ASEAN group. Indonesia has many great problems. Whilst all under-developed countries have problems, many are peculiar to Indonesia only. It is a nation of 6000 islands. The problems it has to face are those of communication, high cost of the development of transportation, the cost of shipping between the islands themselves and the cost of developing the many outlying areas. All these are grave problems that Indonesia has to overcome. I hope that we, as a nation, will continue to play our part in giving assistance in an honest and earnest endeavour to overcome some of those problems. 
I should now like to refer in particular to Australian trade with Indonesia. I should like to pay a high tribute to the Australian Trade Commission in Jakarta. Many witnesses came before the Committee and spoke in very high terms of the assistance that was given to them by the Australian Trade Commission. In one of the Committee's recommendations, the suggestion was made that there should be an increase of staff in this area because of the great load that appears to be placed on these people and the need for further assistance to be given to various Australians who go to Jakarta in the process of developing trade between our 2 countries. Numerous Australian trade displays have been held in Jakarta. These are mentioned in the report. I shall not deal with them now as I am sure I will only bore the Senate ofl do so. 
One must also pay respects- in a complimentary way- to the Australian Department of Overseas Trade. Again, many witnesses spoke highly of the work done by that Department. One could go on in detail about so many other areas of assistance not only in the area of trade with Indonesia but also within the area of trade with other countries. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation, the banking services, the Australian tariff preferences for under-developed countries and so on, all play a part. I do not have time to deal with all those. I should like to mention 2 organisations in particular. Firstly, the Australia-Indonesia Business Co-operative Committee which was formed in November 1971 but which today has about 200 members. This Committee has done an outstanding job. 
One of the great problems we have to face is that in the Western way of life- with our systems of developing business and operating businessour practices are somewhat different from those of other countries.  Senator Coleman  referred today to 'unorthodox practices', as they are called in Indonesia. One has heard it referred to in other countries, including Indonesia, as corruption. We had witnesses before the Committee who, when questioned about these unorthodox practices, said quite frankly: 'Yes, we have heard it referred to as corruption'. But what is corruption? When they spelt this out to us it was made quite clear that there are problems which have to be overcome. The Government is endeavouring to make and must continue to make every endeavour to wipe out some of these unorthodox practices. On the other hand, as some of these businessmen said, many of the problems do not emanate from Indonesia. Some of them are encouraged by outside businessmen and flow on to Indonesia. On many occasions there is a 2-way flow of unorthodox practices. 
One of the other problems, of course, is that because of the different approach in the overall operation of the establishment of business in Australia from that which may apply in Indonesia, many people have become rather frustrated and disenchanted. The AustraliaIndonesia Association is doing all it can to give assistance to anybody who wishes to develop trade between Australia and Indonesia. The Australia-Indonesia Association has met to discuss its problems and proposals. In turn, discussions are held with the Indonesians. I can only speak in the highest terms of this group of businessmen who have given and who are willing to give so much of their time to offer assistance to other Australians who wish to be involved in the development of trade between our 2 countries of Australia and Indonesia. I hope that the Association will continue to make the great contribution that it is making to the development of trade between our 2 countries. I am confident that it will do so. The Indonesian Business Co-operative Committee, which is based in Jakarta, is the counter organisation in Indonesia. This Committee, likewise, is making an endeavour to play its part in Indonesia. 
I should like to pay tribute to the Indonesian Embassy in Australia for the amount of interest, assistance and excellent co-operation it gave to our Committee. Its economic counsellor,  Mr Abdul-Latief,  was present at every public meeting that we held, irrespective of whether it was in Canberra, Melbourne or Sydney. It is interesting and encouraging to see that people within the Indonesian Embassy itself are prepared to give assistance and to play their part in greater cooperation for the development of trade between the 2 countries. Finally, I should like to say how much I enjoyed working with the Committee. I extend my appreciation to the secretariat for the part it played and the assistance it gave to the Committee during its investigations and also in the preparation of the final draft of the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 1 m, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is she aware that a widow of a seaman who was lost in the tragic Hobart Bridge disaster last year is still waiting for her claim for compensation to be heard under the Seamen's Compensation Act and is still waiting also for a claim of damages for neglect to be heard? Is the Minister aware also that this widow, now living in Adelaide and having no family in Australia, as she was a citizen of Singapore prior to her marriage to the Australian seaman, has been living on unemployment benefit as her only means of financial support? As the Hoban Bridge disaster occurred on 5 January 1975, some 15 months ago, will the Minister initiate inquiries into the reason for this extremely long delay in the commencement of proceedings, in an endeavour to have this unfortunate matter resolved as soon as possible? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. While I fully support the playing of  God Save the Queen  on all official occasions associated with the Queen or her representative, I ask the Minister whether consideration would be given to the playing of  God Bless Australia  in recognition of any Australian winning a medal at the forthcoming Olympic Games in Montreal? As  God Bless Australia  incorporates the tune of  Waltzing Matilda,  made internationally famous by Australian serviceman, would the playing of that tune not add a touch of instantly recognisable Australian colour at each medal presentation to an Australian? 
I rise to speak on the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill 1976 and the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1976 which the Senate is now debating. In doing so, I am pleased to hear the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Opposition will give support to this legislation. It is interesting to note that the loan for Qantas will enable it to purchase its twelfth 747 jet and to observe how, as a company, Qantas has gradually changed from one generation of aircraft to another in its operations. Very many years ago Qantas operated petrol fuelled propeller-driven planes, then moved to turbo-prop aircraft, on to the Boeing 707 aircraft and finally introduced into service the Boeing 747 or the jumbo jet as it is known. Today Qantas finds it necessary, as many of the international airlines have done, to rationalise the types of aircraft it uses to make sure that it can have maximum carrying capacity and at the same time operate at maximum passenger content in the high density air routes. 
Having said that, I add that Qantas has had a remarkable history from its small beginnings when it was established in Queensland as the Queensland and Northern Territory Air Service QANTAS. Today it is the international flag-carrier for Australia, flying its flag throughout the world. Not only is Qantas recognised as the international Australian airline but also is it recognised, as  Senator Wriedt  said, for its reliability and service. Today it is recognised as one of the top quality airlines in international air services. 
Having made that point, I must make a passing reference to a news release that was put out by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  earlier this year in which he dealt with aspects of exercising more control in the way in which air line travel is sold, stating that there would be penalties imposed on other airlines if they tried to alter commission rates to agents or if they engaged in advertising which was not quite in line with the manner in which this should be done. 
I do not disagree with that statement. Unfortunately, one has not time today to go into that detail of this aspect. I am very much aware, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that the Government would like these Bills passed this afternoon. Whilst I accept the Minister's statement, I hope that the management of Qantas is conscious of cost structures and does not automatically give in, as it has in the past, to demands made upon it without the fight that perhaps there should have been. Whilst the Government will continue to protect Qantas, it must not overdo the protection. I think there should be a two way flow. We must go for maximum efficiencies all the way, and I hope that Qantas in the future will stand up a bit more than it has in the past to some of the demands made upon it for excessive wage rates and pay rises by various members within the organisation. 
Unfortunately I am not able to deal with many other aspects I would like to have touched on today. I turn to the Bill dealing with the purchase of Trans-Australia Airlines' seventh Boeing 727 or stretched jet, as it is called. Trans-Australia Airlines also has done an extremely good job in Australia. We have a 2-airline internal policy involving TAA and Ansett Airlines of Australia. I am concerned by the number of occasions on which members of the Opposition go out of their way to make vindictive statements about Ansett Airlines of Australia. I commend the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  for the manner in which he presented the case today on behalf of the Opposition. Frankly, I think it is essential for competition that we have a 2-airline policy in this country. We appreciate that Ansett is purely a private airline whereas TAA is working basically as a semi-government organisation. 
It is noticeable that there is legislation before us approving a loan for TAA to obtain a new aircraft but there is nothing at present for Ansett. I am given to understand that Ansett also hopes to obtain another stretched 727 later this year; so one would expect legislation to be forthcoming in relation to an Ansett Airlines' purchase. Several matters concern me. I wish to quote very briefly from the House of Representatives  Hansard  at page 665. The former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  speaking on the Bill relating to TAA, said: 
TAA is doing the right thing by buying a new aircraft because this will then allow it to sell the one they want to replace. In my opinion, Ansett should be doing the same thing. In other words, people flying with Ansett will be getting second best and not the best to which they are entitled in this country. 
This is an unfortunate statement. As recorded at page 661 of the House of Representatives  Hansard,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said: 
Frankly, my personal view is that we would have cheaper, more co-ordinated, more satisfactory internal travel, if like Germany with its Lufthansa, our domestic as well as overseas airlines were totally in public hands. 
This has been and is the philosophy of many members of the Opposition. Statements attempting to denigrate Ansett Airlines are unfortunate. It is in open competition with the Government airline. In fact, it provides more than adequate competition because last year Ansett showed that it was a very efficient airline by making a profit of some $4m whereas TAA had a profit last year of approximately $ 1 m. 

 Senator Wriedt referred to the problem of high costs within the airlines. We are faced with high costs in so many areas, but air travel today is very important in a continent such as Australia where vast distances have to be covered. It is essential that we try to keep our costs to a minimum in all areas, but particularly in the airline industry, which should be giving greater opportunity to more people to take the benefit of quick, easy transport by air. Unfortunately costs are increasing. The increases are not all increases we would normally expect as a result of inflation. Some of them are brought about by irresponsible strikes and stoppages within the airlines and the transport system. Because of a strike by transport workers a few weeks ago certain scheduled flights were cancelled and there was great disruption of air services affecting both TAA and Ansett. The strike was unnecessary because the matter could have been handled by conciliation and arbitration but was not. Many private citizens suffered. One read of the tragedies of certain people in Western Australia, where air services were totally cancelled. A woman who wanted an urgent operation in Sydney was unable to get to Sydney. People who wished to travel because of bereavement also suffered. Whilst strikes cause immediate inconvenience to people they also have a longer term effect on costs within the industry which in turn can only affect many of the smaller people of our community. Costs encountered by airlines must be passed on and are reflected in higher charges. Business people travelling by air can pass these higher charges on to the consumer, but the private air traveller has to absorb extra costs. On all counts the cost comes back to the little person who pays the price for the irresponsibility of certain extreme, radical leaders within some of our unions. 
I have made only a passing reference to this matter. There are many more things I would like to have said in that area. There are many more things I would like to have said in relation to the 2-airline system, and there are many more things, some complimentary and some critical, I would like to have said in relation to Qantas. I have much pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen reports that an Aborigine convicted in the South Australian Supreme Court for killing a woman has been handed back to his tribe for tribal law and justice to be applied for his misdeed. Can the Minister say whether this Supreme Court decision will in any way conflict with the application of Australian law generally, particularly in relation to any future actions of Aborigines under their tribal laws which may be in direct conflict with Australian laws? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen reports that Kentish Clothes Pty Ltd, a large clothing manufacturer at Elizabeth in South Australia employing nearly 200 people, is closing down because of fierce competition from imports? Have discussions been held with that company on this matter? If not, will the Minister do so in an endeavour to see what can be done to prevent this important South Australian industry going out of production with the consequent loss of employment opportunities? 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Has he seen reports in today's Press that thousands of new cars are being sold in Australia with defects and, further, that hundreds of these new cars have serious problems which could cause the owners to make large pay-outs? Will the Minister take these reports seriously and have discussions with the motor industry in an endeavour to eliminate some of these defects, to improve the standard of motor vehicles and also to protect both the safety and finances of the purchasing Australian motorist? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Treasurer stated in his economic statement delivered last Thursday night, when dealing with transport: 
The Government has decided to ask an independent committee to inquire into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway project and the options available. 
He then went on to say: 
Reports on these matters are expected within 2 months. In the meantime, expenditure and new commitments in these areas will be kept to a minimum. 
Has the Minister seen reported innuendoes by the Deputy Premier and others in South Australia that the Federal Government is abandoning the Crystal Brook-Adelaide railway? Is this correct? If so, how does it align with the Treasurer's statement? Will the Minister clarify the position? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. As the practice of chiropractics is being more and more recognised and used by the general public, will the Government give serious consideration to the compulsory registration of chiropractors so that only those fully qualified to standards will be recognised and allowed to practice? If so, will the Minister have discussions with State Ministers for Health on this matter? 
I have been very interested in the course of this debate which started yesterday to hear the attitude of the Opposition. There has been a lot of unjustified and very biased criticism. One can appreciate that the Opposition will be critical of many things in the economic statement as it was put down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  last Thursday night because many of the Labor Government's policies have now been reversed. But I repeat that I have been surprised at so much unjustified and illogical criticism which has been levelled by Australian Labor Party members of the Senate. When the Fraser Government came to power last December it knew then that its task would not be easy. The Government knew that big changes needed to be made in government policies because what Australia was looking for at that time and what it needed was not only responsible government but also a government which would act responsibly. This is exactly what the Fraser Government has done. It is high time that people in the Parliament recognised the critical situation which Australia was facing. If we look at the situation when the Fraser Government came to power we will appreciate that we were faced with a huge deficit. We were faced with all sorts of economic ills such as inflation which had been the highest of all times in this country. So it was necessary that these things be taken in hand. 
I have been highly encouraged and in fact delighted by the reaction of the general community to the economic policy statement presented to the Parliament last Thursday night by the Federal Treasurer. More criticism has been levelled at the economic statement in this chamber than I heard as I moved around last weekend in my State of South Australia. I refer to the criticism levelled by the previous Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, last Friday when he stated on air that the way the Fraser Government was going about its endeavours for economic recovery was entirely wrong. This statement from  Mr Whitlam  rather fascinated me. If we recall, when the Labor Party came to power conditions in Australia were among the best of any country. Our inflation then was standing at what now appears to be the ridiculously low level of 4.6 per cent. The mining industry and oil industry were going extremely well. Exploration was booming and business was expanding. There was confidence in the community even though at that time there was concern that 4.6 per cent inflation was high. There was also concern at the level of unemployment. 
When  Mr Whitlam  went out of power last December what was the situation? Australia at that stage was heading for something like 20 per cent inflation which at that time was running at 16 per cent. Unemployment was at an all time record high for Australia. The confidence of the community was absolutely gone. Business had run down. There was no confidence in the business community whatsoever. So that was the situation we had. One could go further and say that tragically for Australia at that time we were winning the international inflationary race. All I say in answer to  Mr Whitlam  's comments of last Friday is that I do not consider for one moment that he could possibly be an authority when it comes to economic recovery. If we want to start talking about authorities with regard to the creation of inflation I doubt that there is a better leader in the world than  Mr Whitlam  because he was winning the international inflation race. As has been stated many times, the Fraser Government and Australia were faced with a frightening deficit. Last year we finished up with a deficit of some $2,500m which followed the pattern of the year before because Budget estimates were a long way out and again the Government finished up with a huge deficit. 
This year every indication was that we could finish up with a deficit of some $5,000m. So it was necessary that steps be taken. When one considers that we had a $2,500m deficit last year the probability was a deficit- unless steps were taken- of something like $5,000m this year. So in 2 years we had something like a $7,500m deficit which is many times greater than our total internal revenue was some few years ago. That was the position, and it was necessary for steps to be taken. I was rather amused this afternoon to hear my friend  Senator Bishop  comment that there is great concern and confusion about the gigantic cuts in Government expenditure. It was essential that the Government should take some steps, cut its coats, or to put it another way, expenditures, and reduce the deficit. We are all very conscious of the fact that excessive Government spending-realistically, we have lived with it- is in itself terribly inflationary. So the Government has set about curbing inflation as much as it can. While its overall policy is to curb inflation, at the same time there are other priorities and I should like to refer to them later. Those priorities are to give assistance to the needy as well as to encourage incentive to enable business to get moving again in Australia. 
Inflation has caused much hardship and harm in the community, has adversely affected industry and commerce in this country, and has disadvantaged us as a trading nation. There are many reasons why inflation must be the No. 1 target of the Government. It creates unemployment, it hurts the aged, it provides a disincentive for thrift. So many factors are involved. One could go on and level so much of the blame for inflation at the previous Labor Government, but I am not here to look backwards. 
Our job is to look ahead to see what can be done. I must say that one is entitled to answer argument coming from the other side, particularly when so much of the argument in the course of this debate- although not from the previous speaker- has been totally illogical and unjustified. This year the Government has endeavoured to reduce what would have been a deficit of some $5,000m by cutting its expenditure to the extent of $2,600m. That is a colossal amount of money by which to reduce Government expenditure, and some people in some areas will be critical of some of the cuts that have been made. When a crisis situation exists it is necessary to go to the maximum of the safety factor to do what is really essential to curb inflation and to get the Australian economy back into a sound position. The problem is not going to be overcome in one year, in all probability, or in 2 years. The crisis is great and it is going to take some time and a lot of hard work, as well as a lot of responsible leadership from the Government, for us to fully recover the situation. 
In addition to all the cuts the Government has made, it has also introduced many innovations. I refer to the area of tax indexation which is entirely new in Australia. Granted, it was talked about by the Labor Party when it was in office but no action was taken. One can appreciate why action was not taken. If there is one area in which inflation works to the benefit of a group it is in the area of government. Governments can get fat on inflation. It gives them the opportunity to go ahead with taxpayers money and do many things for which perhaps they would not be able to get legislative agreement in the Parliament. In our policies prior to the December election we made it perfectly clear that we supported tax indexation and would introduce it progressively over a period of 3 years. But, as we all heard last Thursday night, rather than wait for 3 years the Government is going to introduce 100 per cent tax indexation this year. That will be of great benefit to the country generally and particularly to the wage earners. Tax indexation means that income earners will no longer be taxed on the inflationary aspect of their wages. For too long, due to inflation, we have seen income earners move from what was regarded years ago as a good sound high income bracket into average income brackets today without tax restructuring. Every time they got a wage increase there was an inflationary loading included in their tax category. Taxation took a big bite from the increase. The attitude of many people was: Inflation is costing us x per cent this year. We have got a percentage increase in our wages of that much, but because we have moved into a higher tax bracket the tax man is getting so much of our wages. Therefore we are going to ask for another increase'. So further wage demands were made until we reached a situation where wage demands were far greater than the country's productivity. That was another of the causes of the escalation of inflation in this country. 
More than that, real incomes- that is, the ability of the pay packet to purchase- were greatly eroded due to taxation in relation to inflation. With tax indexation, the inflation factor will no longer apply and that should be a disincentive for excessive wage demands in the future. Some on the other side of the chamber will say that wages do not have any effect on inflation. One is fully conscious of the fact that many speakers within the Labor Party, including some of their Treasurers, have said very clearly that excessive wage demands were causing great concern because they put inflationary pressures on the economy. I think the Government is to be commended, not just for introducing tax indexation this year but for introducing full tax indexation which will give full benefit to wage earners and at the same time act as a counter measure to inflation. 
In the Government's policy statement the Treasurer has made it clear that the Government will give every encouragement to the resurgence of investment in the private sector to encourage business to develop and expand. One of the tragedies of the last few years has been the rundown of business, and not just of big business. So many small businesses throughout the country have crashed. When one considers the areas of unemployment, it will be appreciated that private business employs something like 70 per cent of the work force of this country. Private business was being squeezed out and there was a great need to give encouragement to the private sector of the community to make sure that business will get going again and that with consumer demand, to which  Senator Messner  referred last night, and with a regeneration of vitality within the community, eventually we will take up the great and unfortunate slack in the unemployment factor. 
Another top priority I mentioned earlier relates to the benefits given to the poorer and disadvantaged sections of our community. Unfortunately, I do not have time to go into the detail of what is involved in the area of assistance to families but I will refer to statements made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  relating to child endowment. Child endowment has been increased to $3.50 for the first child, going up progressively to $7 for the fifth child and subsequent children. There has been a great increase in child endowment but more important than that is the fact that it will be a non-taxable family allowance. At the same time, the taxation rebates for dependent children which were allowed in the past are going to be abolished. So in the area of social services there will be a greater levelling out and a greater benefit, with child endowment payments being non-taxable. That will give far greater assistance to poorer families, particularly as the endowment has been increased significantly, while at the same time the dependent children's allowance for taxation purposes has been abolished. This Government has looked very earnestly to giving assistance to the poorer and needier areas of our community. 
Unfortunately, as I said earlier, there is not the amount of time available to continue in this area. I would like to refer to local government, a subject to which  Senator Bishop  referred earlier this day. I think this is one of the important areas. As time goes on more and more people in this country will appreciate the impact of what was said last Thursday night. The policy of federalism recognises the third arm of government within this country. Local government for too long, particularly since the Labor Party took over, has had to come to Canberra with cap in hand. One can go on and talk about the volume of money being given to local government. One will not argue about the aspect of dollars and cents. One can argue very conclusively on the fact that local government had to come to Canberra with cap in hand for its revenue. The Labor Government  not  only used but also abused section 96 of the Constitution. There is no doubt about that. I have spoken on this aspect in this Parliament before. Section 96 gives control of any grant to the donor government, in other words, to the Federal Government. This was the situation with so many of the grants made to local government during the period of the Labor Government. As  Senator Carrick  has said in answers to questions in the last few days, local government today financially and independently will be better off than it has been in the past. 
This Government is making an attack on inflation and doing so many other things. One can appreciate that there will not be the realistic fear of the great escalation of rates that we have seen. Figures given in the last 2 years reveal that local government rates have increased by approximately 35 per cent. It is anticipated this year that rate increases in Australia can perhaps be kept down to an average of about 5 per cent. I am not citing figures of my own. I am citing figures that have been given in this chamber. Local government plays a very important part in our community. One of the problems facing local government in the last 3 years was the great danger that with centralised control local government to a great extent was losing its local control and identity. These are unfortunate trends that fortunately today have been curbed. The Government has recognised within the financial structure of the federal sphere the 3 arms of governmentfederal, State and local. 
I would like to speak on many other matters. I appreciate the time factor involved in this debate and content myself with saying that whilst 1 could go on and commend the Government for its actions and many other issues in the last 6 months, particularly on its economic statement put down last Thursday night, I hope the Government will continue to show the courage it has shown and continue to give the leadership it has given. I hope that we can get on with the job of continuing economic recovery in Australia with the eventual aim of again seeing Australiaas it was not so long ago in terms of time; it is 3 years- really moving forward and expanding in all fields of production, development and economic stability with related socio-economic benefits. 
I direct a question to  Senator Cotton  in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. I do so following statements that medical and hospital benefits contributions will not be tax deductible. I ask the Minister: As there appears to be some doubt in some quarters as to whether premiums on accident and sickness policies as well as life and endowment insurance policies will continue to be tax deductible, will the Minister clarify the position? 
The parliamentary practice where there is a question on a particular subject on the notice paper has been not to allow it to be followed up by the asking of another question by any other honourable senator in the chamber. That has been the practice right throughout. If  Senator Colston  indicates that he is prepared at this stage to have his question answered today it is an entirely different matter, but I think that the practice has been such that it would be discourteous to  Senator Colston  if at this stage we were to override what has been the practice in this place by giving an answer to a question asked by one honourable senator that is directly related to a question previously placed on the notice paper. I take on board the point that  Senator Georges  has made and the problems which occur within Estimates Committees. Perhaps this is something that the Standing Orders Committee could look at. But at this stage, while it is parliamentary practice, I think that we should abide by the forms of the chamber. If  Senator Colston  agrees today to this question being answered, it is an entirely different matter; but I think we should extend the courtesy to  Senator Colston  as well as abide by the practice of the chamber. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has he seen a reported statement by  Mr Whitlam  in today's Press that 'local government should prepare itself for Fraser 's squeeze'? Is this not a case of playing politics and a misleading statement by  Mr Whitlam?  Will the Minister state what is the factual position regarding local government financing? 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he has seen a report in today's Press that there are humps and valleys on the ocean surface on the east coast of Australia and that the sea level is not the same? Can the Minister say whether this applies only to the east coast of Australia or whether it applies also to other parts of the coastline around Australia, including the southern area of South Australia? Have studies been undertaken in this regard? If not, will studies be undertaken concerning the rest of the Australian coastline? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Education, I refer to the Minister's statement on financial grants to universities and in particular to the following statement: 
For the second and third years of the triennium, each Commission should plan on the basis of a minimum growth of 2 per cent in real terms on the level of expenditure in the preceding year. 
Can the Minister give any indication of what this will mean approximately in monetary terms? Can the Minister say also what are the further guidelines referred to in his statement? If he cannot do so at this stage, when will he be in a position to give an indication of those guidelines? 
In response to  Senator Wriedt  I say that this is not the first occasion on which this sort of thing has happened. It happened on another occasion. I do not disagree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Wriedt  tonight, but I would rather he said: 'This was done once by an honourable senator on one side of the chamber. So I will agree to it being done by an honourable senator on the other side of the chamber.' I assume that  Senator Wriedt  agrees with the wording used in the petition tonight but is concerned about the general approach to this matter and the method by which petitions are presented. Perhaps after the one from this side ofthe chamber has been accepted tonight serious consideration then should be given to the points of view that  Senator Wriedt  has expressed tonight. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania-Leader ofthe Opposition)-  Mr President,  the only thing I wish to say in regard to the comments of  Senator 
Young is that I agree that we should try to be fair about the incorporation of material, but I believe that this process - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security follows an answer she gave to  Senator Bishop  a few days ago on the telephone migrant interpreter service. What is the position regarding the use of this service? Has there been any growth in the use of the service since its inception? Are any recent statistics available which show the use made of the service, particularly in Adelaide? 
I rise to support this motion and wish to speak particularly of the late  Senator Tom  Bull. I speak as one who was closely associated with him not only in this Parliament but also for many, many years in primary industry where we worked very closely together. Tom Bull was a man who was full of energy and dedication. More than that, he demonstrated his deep understanding and integrity; throughout his life and in his associations, and he won respect from all with whom he worked. I was delighted today to hear in this chamber  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Georges  pay their respects to the late  Senator Bull. 
One aspect which stands out very clearly in the life of the late  Senator Bull  was the contribution that he made to all sections of the community. This applied to primary industry and especially the wool industry which, for many years, suffered from frictions that were not helping that industry. In fact, those frictions held back the progress of the industry. The wool industry owes a great deal to Tom Bull. It owes him gratitude and is in his debt for what he did in bringing about unity in that industry and in finally seeing the establishment of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Very few people are aware of the hours of work put in by the late  Senator Bull  and of his dedication and, more than that, of the respect that he commanded.  His  work brought so many people in the wool industry together and resulted finally in unity becoming a reality. 
After his active life in primary industry, when Tom Bull came to the Senate he continued to work with the same dedication and energy, serving on many committees, as has been mentioned today. Eventually, he became  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President.  I had the pleasant experience of serving with the late Tom Bull as Vice-Chairman of the old Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade of which he was  Chairman.  To me, that was a great experience and a continuation of our very close associations. For his efforts in his local district, his work in the industry with which he was closely associated and his work in this Parliament, many people owe a big 'thank you ' to the late Tom Bull for the contribution that he has made to Australia as a whole. He will be long remembered for the service that he rendered. I join with my Leader,  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  and the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  in extending condolences to his wife and family in their sad bereavement. I extend my sympathy also to the families of the other former senators and of the member of the House of Representatives with whom this motion is concerned. 
I sat and listened in silence to another tirade from  Senator McLaren  this evening. It is not the first time on which I have heard him issue a tirade, nor is it the first time when I have heard  Senator McLaren  endeavour to denigrate a personality. The one thing that does annoy me is that a senator is prepared to get up in this chamber and attack a personality who does not have the opportunity to come in here and answer him. Having said that I go no further with this other than to ask the Minister - 
-I said 'endeavoured '. 

 - Mr President, may I speak on this point of order? The impression I had from  Senator McLaren's  remarks was that the Governor-General was abusing his position and over-using VIP aircraft. I felt that he was attacking the Governor-General for what  Senator McLaren  considered was an over-use of VIP aircraft. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the continued worsening drought conditions in many areas of South Australia, has the Government been approached by the South Australian Government to give Federal assistance towards drought relief in South Australia? If it has, will the Federal Government be prepared to give such assistance as has been the case with some of the other States suffering from drought? 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development see a report in  The Australian  on Wednesday, 21 July 1976, headed  Boycott Team has Eyes on Brisbane Games,  in which  Mr Ram  Samy VicePresident of the South African Non-racial Olympic Committee, stated that a group of Londoners, most of them exiles from South Africa, organised the Montreal Olympic Games walkout by representatives of some African countries? Did the Minister also see it reported that 4 executive members-  Mr James  Cooke,  Mr Omar  Cassem  Mr Stephen  Tobias and  Mr Isaiah  Steinwere also involved in the walk-out? Has he also seen reports that this group intends to sabotage the proposed 1982 Brisbane Commonwealth Games? Will the Minister make inquiries into the proposals of these men in relation to the proposed Brisbane Commonwealth Games and endeavour to obtain a guarantee from them that they will not take such action? If no guarantee can be obtained, will the Minister refuse them entry into Australia to prevent them attempting to sabotage and disrupt the Games for their own political ends? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As Football Park, which is the League football headquarters in South Australia, has been unsuccessful in its application for the establishment of public telephones, I ask the Minister whether he is aware that this sporting complex caters for thousands of spectators on Saturdays and on other occasions, and that the need for public telephones is frequently emphasised. Will the Minister give serious consideration for the early installation of some public telephones to service what is genuinely a real community need? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the announcement by Medibank that in Queensland the Manchester Unity Medical and Hospital Benefits Fund will be acting as agents for Medibank in that State mean there will be an increase in the staff of Medibank in Queensland? What is the position of staff for Medibank in the other States particularly now that Medibank Private is being introduced? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-74, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Development of Navy Supply Centre and Army Workshop Facility at Defence Establishment, Zetland, New South Wales. 
There are 2 main aspects of this Bill. One, of course, is the ban on cigarette advertising and the other is the amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act dealing with the licensing of translator stations. The decision to ban cigarette and cigarette tobacco advertising on the electronic media is not new. One can cast one's mind back to the days when  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was the Minister for Health when by his direction as Minister all advertisements had to have the footnote 'Smoking is a health hazard'. So through the progression of time we have gradually reached the situation where today we are dealing with legislation that will totally ban the advertising of both cigarettes and cigarette tobacco. This ban was commenced by the Whitlam Government as far back as 1973. The electronic industry was given a 3-year period in which to phase out cigarette advertising and an opportunity to re-arrange its revenue earnings. The period expires on 3 1 August this year. Although there was a change of government the present Government under  Mr Fraser  has continued that policy of the previous Labor Government. 
There has been much concern about the aspect of revenue earnings.  Senator Douglas  McClelland dealt earlier with the buoyancy of the television and radio industries today. Let me say that there was a period not so long ago when these industries were in quite a deal of trouble financially, some States more than others and some stations more than others. This applied to radio as well as to television. Having said that, when one considers the revenue aspect of radio and television stations one also has to consider very seriously the health of this nation. In the second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said: 
. reputable medical evidence indicates that cigarette smoking is causing a growing pernicious death toll including facts that approximately 90 per cent of lung cancer cases which now cause some 4000 deaths annually in Australia, are related to cigarette smoking as are 25 per cent of deaths from coronary hean disease. 
I think it would be wrong of the Government, even though one can express concern about the revenue aspect for the electronic media, to go on encouraging cigarette smoking when the facts are clearly showing it is doing so much damage to the health of so many people in this country. The decision taken in Australia is not singularly peculiar to this country. Let us look at what has happened in other countries. Advertising of cigarettes on television and radio was banned in Canada as early as 1 January 1 972; in the United States of America it was banned in January 1971 and in the United Kingdom in August 1 965. Lifts in most States of the United States carry a notice stating that a fine of $50 will be imposed on anyone smoking in them. 
My own State of South Australia experimented for 3 months to see whether smoking should be allowed on public transport. Today smoking is banned on all metropolitan buses in Adelaide. There has been a growing awareness throughout the world, including throughout the Australian community, that something must be done to discourage the smoking of cigarettes. I think it is only right that this Government has continued the previous policy which was initiated by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson when Minister for Health finally to abolish and ban the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco. 
I take on board what the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has just said. One could also refer to the advertising of analgesics and alcohol and even go to the extreme and refer to the advertising of motor cars. What greater hazard is there in our community than motor cars? They cause so many deaths in our community. I think we have to adopt a rational approach in this area. Figures have shown clearly what smoking does. I would hate to think what would happen in this country if we banned motor cars. This is something that must be watched very closely. 
I turn now to the area of fringe advertising. When this legislation is passed- which it will be because the Opposition supports it- what will be the position on fringe advertising? When sport is being televised from football fields or cricket fields one sees around the arena perimeter advertisements of tobacco companies, paints or of so many other bits and pieces. They bring in quite a deal of revenue for the particular sporting club or arena. I am also very conscious of the great deal of money that is given by tobacco companies to so many sporting communities and clubs throughout Australia. Many racing, tennis, cricket and football competitions are being heavily supported financially by various tobacco companies. The same applies with regard to trophies given by companies. I hope the Minister will clarify a matter for me. I refer to clause 5 of the Bill which states: 
Section 100 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: 
10) A reference in sub-section (5), (5a) or (6) to the broadcasting or televising of advertisements or of an advertisement shall be read as not including a reference to the broadcasting or televising of matter of an advertising character as an accidental or incidental accompaniment of the broadcasting or televising of other matter in circumstances in which the licencee does not receive payment or other valuable consideration for broadcasting or televising the advertising matter. '. 
I hope that references will continue to be made in radio programs and commentaries to a company that has sponsored a match or has presented trophies. I emphasise that we must look at the whole situation rationally and accept the fact that whilst we are prepared no longer to support something that is injurious to the health of our community we will not totally abolish any opportunity for companies to give their support to the sporting bodies of this country. Sport plays a very important part in our community. Finance is one of the great problems today not only for sporting bodies but also for areas of our community which carry out welfare and social activities. I would hate to think that these companies would be driven away from giving further support and encouragement to the expansion and continuation of sporting bodies in Australia. 
If we go even further and accept the proposition that we ban fringe advertising in Australia what will happen when test cricket is being played in England? The dear old BBC would be televising the test match from Lord 's. I recall the last occasion that this was done and the match was retelevised in Australia by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What did we see scattered around the perimeter of Lord's? Advertising. How do we overcome this problem? How do we overcome the problem of a tennis player, who is playing in international competition which is being televised, walking out with a towel that has a certain brand name on it? There is nothing we can do. I think the matter has to be looked at. I hope that my interpretation of clause 5 is correct. I hope that the Minister will clarify this position for the Senate. We can go to extremes with these things. 
I now turn to the other aspects of the Bill. I will deal with the licensing of broadcasting and television translator stations. These stations will be of great assistance in many borderline areas of Australia. Some communities at present are being serviced by a television program that is not really a local program. The introduction of the licensing of translators will be of great benefit to these communities.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the Gold Coast. One can think of other areas in Australia to which the benefits of translator stations will apply and be of great assistance. The benefits will go further than just State borders. They will go to local areas where great assistance eventually can be given. 
I look now to the area of broadcasting services. Many deficiencies occur, particularly in the outback areas which have a low density of population. Broadcasting services, together with the introduction of broadcasting translator stations, can bring great benefit to many people. I recall the irony of one situation in my own State of South Australia. The Overseas Telecommunications Commission has a radio telescope 30 miles from Ceduna near the Western Australian border. One can sit inside the building and watch a colour television program being transmitted from another country. Yet one can walk out of the station, go down the road and not even receive a decent radio message. These people could get no advantage from the colour television. Yet colour television, before it was introduced in Australia, was at their back door. At the time they did not even have a decent radio program. Today they do. Many people who up to now have not had the advantage of good reception will now receive that advantage. 
I commend the Government for taking these 2 important steps. One could look to the problems that would arise with the introduction of more frequency modulation radio stations and the eventual changeover in some areas of television to ultra high frequency. Whilst making passing reference to the problem, the confusion and perhaps the need for long-term planning in this area- something that has been needed for quite some time in this country- I refer also to the long-term planning in regard to ether waves for both radio and television. I take on board what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said earlier. I worked fairly closely with  Senator Douglas  McClelland when he was Minister for the Media. But there was a time when the previous Government was in power when I was most concerned, as were many other people, by the proposal for the proliferation of so many radio stations whose introduction was planned in my view on a haphazard basis. 
I emphasise that there is a great need in this country to look at the situation very closely and do some long-term planning. The advances in technology taking place throughout the world today and the advances in technology that will be introduced into radio and television in many areas including South Australia are such that there will be need for long-term planning. When more radio stations change to FM broadcasting and when, as we will no doubt see, UHF television transmission is adopted by some stations there will be a need to make sure that we do not finish up with a situation similar to what I call the railways complex' that we had in Australia for so many years when there was haphazard introduction without any long-term planning. I hope that the inquiry into broadcasting that is taking place will come to light with many satisfactory ideas of benefit to this country for the future planning of the electronic media. 
I commend the Government for the Bill and for concluding a policy in one area, that was started a long while ago. I emphasise one point: Whilst I fully support this concept proposing the banning of cigarette advertising I hope we will adopt a rational approach and will not go to extremes whereby companies will face total bans. This could have an adverse effect on a very healthy section of our community- the sporting world. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Budget will be presented in the South Australian Parliament today? Also, has the Minister seen a report in today's  Australian  that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  is likely to cut back on education with reported likely savings of some $50m? Can the Minister state whether this is purely a South Australian decision and whether any influence on this decision by  Mr Dunstan  could be related to Federal financial contributions to South Australia? 
Throughout this Budget debate we have heard so many members of the Opposition refer continually to their concern about inflation and unemployment and the fact that the Government has seen fit to cut back its expenditure. I want to ask the Opposition, through you,  Mr Acting Deputy  President: Who created the mess that Australia is in today? This is what this Budget is all about. It was designed to try to get some control back in the country, to try to get some economic stability and to reduce inflation. Unfortunately there will be side effects, and there must be, because Australia was in an economic mess. There was no alternative but to take positive steps. We on the Government side made it perfectly clear during the election campaign last December that we would be doing things in a responsible way, not looking to be a popular Government but looking to be a responsible Government because we would be acting in the national interest. That is what has happened. 
While the Labor Party was in its glory for some 3 years we saw inflation escalate to the highest level ever in Australia. We saw unemployment reach the highest level ever in Australia, and tragically it is higher now than it was then. One accepts that fact. But these are the side effects that are happening because, I repeat, of the mismanagement of the Labor Party. 
Accusations have been made about what we are doing and that we are taking no positive steps. I remind the Senate that in the so-called mini-Budget presented by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  earlier this year there were many positive moves. I refer to indexation of personal income tax, changes in the housing loan interest deductions, remove of the personal tax rebate for dependent children and so on. We have dealt with these things on previous occasions in this chamber. All of these have been positive steps. If we consider indexation, it means virtually that tax brackets will be upgraded by some 13 per cent. This is going to mean a great saving to many people in this country because this relates directly to the projected inflation rate within Australia. It is lucky that our inflation rate stands now at 13 per cent and not the 20 per cent towards which we were heading last year. 
These things also mean that above all else governments now have to be responsible. No longer can a government feed like a leech on income tax and do things by devious means. According to my figures, revenue from income tax during the Whitlam period increased by some 89 per cent. That Government happily spent that increase of 89 per cent without reference, in most cases, to this Parliament or to the community and, above all, without responsibility, but it still finished up in a great debt, a debt which was double the projection or forecast within the Budget. 
Let us look at a few of the positives presented in this Budget by  Mr Lynch.  We find that it contains mining and petroleum incentives. There is the introduction of the first stage of a trade stock valuation adjustment in relation to the 1976-77 income year. There is the increase in the private company retention allowance for non-profit income in respect of 1975-76 income from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. We see the introduction of a new scheme of income equalisation with deposits for primary producers, about which I will say more later. There is a change in estate duty. I could go on. One other very important factor that has been overlooked by so many members of the Opposition is the fact that there has been no increase in indirect taxation. I remind the Senate that during the period of office of the Whitiam Government there were increases in revenue to the extent of $ 1,000m by upgrading indirect taxes. This Government has seen the need to do completely the reverse and to hold a standstill position. 
Members of the Opposition in this place have seen fit to criticise the Government in many ways, but it is interesting to note the words of their amendment. Last year they criticised the Liberal and Country Parties for taking positive steps. I would like somebody to define for me the difference between the amendment on this occasion and a rejection of a Budget. Their amendment starts off with the wording; 
The Senate condemns the Budget . . . 
It then lists 5 categories. They are asking the Senate to support this amendment. What is a condemnation if it is not a rejection? They are not expressing concern about the Budget, they are not criticising the Budget; they are condemning the Budget. My understanding is that if the amendment were carried the Budget would be rejected because the amendment is a condemnation of the Budget. If one condemns something, one casts it aside. I cannot see the difference between what they are setting out to do and what they criticised us for doing last year. Perhaps the only difference is that they are short of numbers. Thank goodness, for Australia's sake, that they are. They had their turn during the last 3 years. We saw the mess that they made when they had the numbers in the Federal Parliament. I think it is a quite fascinating point. I would like an Opposition  Senator to  answer it for me. 
One looks to the reactions of some of the State Premiers to the Budget. I look to the reaction of the Premier of my State of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  who for so long and in so many ways saw fit to criticise and condemn the Fraser Government for the policies it was propounding and for the actions it was taking in an endeavour to get control of the Australian economy again. It is interesting to note the change in attitude of the Premier since the Budget was presented to this Parliament. It is also interesting to note other attitudes of the Premier of South Australia and some of the actions which he has taken in recent times. During the past two or three years in our State there has been a great increase in the rate of land tax- increases of hundreds of per centparticularly on rural land. Initially  Mr Dunstan  saw fit to introduce this increase generally throughout the State. There was such a violent reaction to it in our State that he put that idea away in a pigeonhole for a little while and then set out picking off districts one at a time. He had a glorious time. There were the odd protest meetings; but unity is strength, and while one district was being picked off the others were not aware of it. So it was going one. This cancerous tax was eating away at the economy of South Australia. 
That continued, the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament,  Dr Tonkin,  who will soon be Premier, had a very successful rally in Victoria Square in Adelaide. It was against these iniquitous increases in tax. In the last few days, following the concern expressed and the escalation of the amount coming in as revenue, the Premier, who appeared for so long to turn a deaf ear on the appeals of so many members of the community in our State, suddenly has announced that he is abolishing land tax on rural land. We are delighted that he has seen fit to do so. To me it is rather strange that he should do so, particularly at this time. 
I know he is. He kept on putting up the tax, increasing it by hundreds of per cent, when we were appealing to this man and to the State Government. Suddenly he intends to throw it out. One wonders why. We know that he has not really condemned the Budget. We know that there has been a redistribution in South Australia. We know that challenges have been issued. I think we also know that  Mr Dunstan  is warming up for a State election. This is one of the little goodies- lollies or icing on the cake. I hope that South Australians have memories tike an elephant. I hope they will not forget. While it might be one thing to quote poetry from an elephant, poetic justice is another thing. I think the elephant might turn around on  Mr Dunstan. 
It might even turn around. For so long  Mr Dunstan  was critical of federalism. In answer to a question asked by me today,  Senator Carrick  gave figures which show that this year South Australia will finish with a $2m surplus. 
-It was not a Dorothy Dixer. Members of the Labor Party had the habit of asking such questions of Ministers when they were in power. The Ministers gave not just maiden speeches but second reading speeches and ministerial reports during question time. Granted, the time allotted for questions has increased when we have been in government. I was forced by  Senator Keeffe  to digress. I was saying that in South Australia this year there will be a $2m surplus, plus $5 5m accrued revenue, plus- this is the important fact- $9.8m more from the Federal Government than it would have received under the old system of assessment under the Whitlam Government. Hence at this stage there is very little on which the Premier can hang his hat for an election. So he is coming up with the icing on the cake and the lollies. He is abolishing land tax. 
I refer to another issue in South Australia which was a very contentious issue. It was debated for many hours in this place as well as in the Parliament of South Australia. I refer to the issue of Dartmouth and Chowilla. I mention this tonight because  Senator Bishop  saw fit to make a passing reference to it when he spoke on the Budget the week before last. He referred to  Senator Laucke  and said that it was good to see that so many supported the South Australian Parliament, Premier Playford and later Premier Hall. I remind the Senate that there was a time when the Labor Party in this place certainly was not supporting Premier Hall. While he initially supported the concept of Chowilla, after further studies he saw greater advantages from the Dartmouth Dam. Many of us, following research, were able to see the same things, and we supported the Dartmouth Dam proposal. The present Premier of South Australia did not do so. He did not stop there. He supported both Chowilla and Dartmouth, as I understand it. He having got himself into a position of power, through the haggling that went on we reached the unfortunate and very dangerous situation of almost losing Dartmouth. Chowilla is now a thing of the past. All indicators point that way. Not only did we nearly lose Dartmouth then, but while  Mr Whitlam  was in power I remember a letter of intent being sent to the South Australian Parliament in which  Mr Whitlam  requested, following the Coombs report, a further deferment of the Dartmouth Dam. 
Most people are conscious of the fact that much of the southern part of Australia is suffering from a very severe drought this year. That includes much of the State of South Australia. Upon inquiry I find that the reserves of water to supply Adelaide are down to about 50 per cent capacity at present. I also find upon inquiry that the Dartmouth Dam is expected to be completed by the end of 1978. Taking into account the 2-year delay caused by  Mr Dunstan,  the Dartmouth Dam should have been completed this year. I accept that there have been good snowfalls in the mountains this year, but I do not accept that South Australia should have been put at risk. We could have had a good and guaranteed supply of water this year. We may be saved- we hope we will be- this year because of the good snowfalls in the alps. If this had happened last year South Australia could have had great problems. We have another 2 years to go before Dartmouth is completed, due to the political manoeuvring of Premier Dunstan. So whilst he may go on crowing about his many achievements in South Australia he has been very fortunate in that we may have been saved- I hope that we have been saved- from water shortages in our State this year.  Mr Dunstan  is to blame for the fact that the Dartmouth Dam is not finished this year. 
Many comments have been made about the Government's attitude to the rural sector. In industry speech the other night- it appears on page 369 of  Hansard-  Senator Walsh  said: 
The farm sector will receive little comfort from this Budget. Despite all the windy rhetoric, particularly of the National Country Party component of the Government, over the last 3 years, net payments to agriculture within this Budget will be negative. 
I would like to remind the Senate of what the Government has done. The Australian Labor Party Government abolished the superphosphate subsidy. This Government reintroduced it. The Fraser Government is at last doing something about inflation. I could say that the Labor Party introduced it, because when it came to power we had minimal inflation in this country. It reached double figures and stayed there during the term of the unfortunate Labor regime. This created problems not only for the rural sector but also generally throughout Australia. In this Budget we also see a reduction in estate duties, and this will be of great benefit to the man on the land. We see the introduction of investment allowances. The Whitlam Government reduced the free telephone installation from 15 kilometres, as it was under previous Liberal-Country Party governments, to 8 kilometres. The Fraser Government has seen fit to increase this distance to 12 kilometres. 
Income equalisation will even out fluctuations in the rural industries. With the drought conditions this year one wishes that income equalisation had been introduced by the Whitlam Government. It would have been of great advantage to put money away for the future, to off-set troughs in the rural industry. Unfortunately, very few farmers will be able to take advantage of the scheme this year but it will be of great benefit in the future to the primary sector. I would like to see the Government increase the level of deductibility of insurance premiums. In 1968- the last time that there was an increase in this area- the deductibility was set at $1,200. Since then we have witnessed inflation in this country and an escalation in land values. The need to insure is as great as ever today for the man on the land and for other people. Insurance is a good investment for future security. I hope that the Government will have a very close look at this area because I think seriously that there is a need to increase the level of deductibility. 
I cannot understand why the Opposition continuously criticises and at times condemns the mining industry generally in this country. Many honourable senators opposite are critical of factors in the mining industry. Why can they not see that the mining industry plays a very important part in the economy of this country? Why can they not realise that overseas investment also has been a necessary pan of the development of this country? Why is it that so many of them are too blind to see that the mining industry not only creates overseas revenue but also creates much of our internal revenue by various means of taxation? Whilst the rural industries contribute about 45 per cent of our exports, the mining industry contributes approximately 27 per cent. In 1974-75 the revenue from mining royalties to both the State and Commonwealth governments amounted to about $ 153.5m. In 1972-73 mining companies paid $98m in income tax. For some unknown reason many honourable senators opposite completely overlook these things. We know what happened with the Connor regime. It did everything it could to squeeze the mining companies. 'Profit' was a dirty word. Overseas finance was filthy money. So we saw a retraction in exploration and mine development in this country. That was a tragedy. It takes a long time from the point where something is discovered to get a mine into production. Not only did we lose a lot of time in the last 2 years of the Labor Government but also we are losing time in the future because, as I said, it takes so long to develop mines and to get them into production. Also Australia is losing a lot of revenue and on top of this, as  Senator Walsh  stated, some of our markets may be put at risk. 
Let us have a look at what happens with exploration. I am talking purely of mineral exploration at this stage and not about petroleum or fossil fuel exploration. In 1970-71 approximately $ 167.5m was spent on mineral exploration. In 1974-75 that had dropped to $124m. On the figures alone that is a big drop but if one takes into account the escalation of inflation over that period one sees that in real terms exploration slowed right down. In fact in some areas companies slowed down completely. They were not prepared to take the risk on their capital because they feared- it was a real danger- that if they discovered something and spent all their money the Government would step in and take it over or take total control, which is not vastly different. It would squeeze the companies. 
-It is all very well for honourable senators to say 'oh' and turn their heads in disgust. We turned our heads in disgust at the time when these things were happening. Earlier this evening  Senator Robertson  referred to something that the Fraser Government is doing and said that once again the big firms will go and take their expertise with them. That is exactly what has been happening in the mining world. The other night, in criticism of the Government for what it is doing,  Senator Walsh  said: 'But of course when it comes to mining, it is capital intensive. It is not labour intensive'. I questioned him about that. In his speech on page 375 of  Hansard he  said: 
The second and perhaps more important point- it is the one that is permanent, anyway- is that mining developments are capital intensive. They are small employers of labour. 
The mining companies themselves may be small employers of labour directly but that is a ridiculous statement for anybody to make. What would be the position if the mine at Mount Isa were to close tomorrow morning? Is that mining company a small employer of labour? What would be the position if Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd closed down tomorrow morning? What would happen to Broken Hill? What would happen to Port Pirie in South Australia? What would happen to parts of Risdon in Tasmania which has been handling so much of the zinc? Is the mining complex at Broken Hill a small employer of labour? What a lot of utter rot. One has only to go to the Pilbara region to see what is happening and to have an appreciation of the cumulative effect a mining complex can have, how much labour is involved and how many people get the benefit from mining. At the present time the situation is that we are encouraging mining. It is important that an injection be put into this important area of production and development in Australia. Not only was it neglected but also it was abused and nearly pushed out of Australia. I return to the statements in the Budget. In relation to income from mining the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  stated: 
Allowable capital expenditure on facilities used for the transportation of minerals, including petroleum, will now be deductible on a straight line basis over either 20 years, as at present, or 10 years, at the taxpayer's option to be exercised with the first claim for the deduction. The categories of expenditure covered by the present provisions giving deductions for allowable capital expenditure on mineral transport facilities - 
This is very important- will be extended to cover expenditure, presently not deductible, on port development such as harbour surveys, initial dredging, navigational aids and breakwaters. 
Let us have a look at some of the costs. I have a cost here which can be taken from any of the annual reports of any company. This cost is for the Pilbara area in Western Australia. Capital expenditure by this company on social infrastructure, housing, power, water and community facilities totalled some $189m. For industrial infrastructure, railways and port facilities the amount is $31 lm. When we add the amount for plant and equipment of some $279m this gives an approximate capital expenditure outlay of some $800m. These costs were incurred quite a few years ago before the escalation of inflation which some have estimated in the last 2 years works out at an increase in excess of 30 per cent. If one goes back to the time of the establishment of these companies in the north-west of Western Australia one can appreciate what these facilities would cost today. The appreciation of what it would cost today is a good and valid reason why the Government has seen fit to give incentives and some return for the capital outlay of these companies. One hopes that there will be greater and continuing development in so many potential areas of Australia. But development costs money. Mining companies need some recognition and understanding of their problems and of the investment involved. The Treasurer, in the second area of his statement, stated: 
Allowable capital expenditure of any mining company on the development of a mine or field will be deductible on a diminishing value basis, as at present, by reference to a maximum life of mine or field of 5 years, instead of 25 years as at present. 
This will be a great help to the mining companies. It will give a far greater cash flow to so many companies which have not had that flow in the past. In fact, figures show that over a 25-year period instead of 5 years the deduction or depreciation allowance has gone from some 4 per cent per annum to 20 per cent per annum on a diminishing scale. This will be another incentive to mining companies and it is something which the previous Government completely overlooked. I refer to the petroleum exploration expenditure and allowable capital expenditure on the mining of petroleum which will be deductible against income from any source. From this one has an appreciation of what this Government is trying to do. 
I return briefly to coal export duty. Many ridiculous things were done by the Whitlam Government but perhaps the imposition of this levy was one of the most ridiculous things ever introduced. That Government went straight across the board and brought in levies on coal irrespective of the financial situation or of the productivity of a particular mine. To the Labor Party coal was coal, irrespective of the costs involved. So the Labor Government saw fit to bring in 2 levies on coal. There was a levy of $6 per tonne in the case of high grade coal and $2 per tonne in the case of the lower grade. The Fraser Government has wisely seen fit to reduce the $6 levy to $4.50 per tonne and the $2 levy to $1.50 per tonne. This will be of great benefit to many of the coal mining areas. It will be of benefit to Queensland and to New South Wales. It will be of benefit to many small companies which looked as though they would go out of existence. It will be of benefit to many potential areas of Queensland and New South Wales which may now see fit to go into production. This will get a bit more production going in Australia and it will involve a bit more employment. It will also involve a bit more overseas earnings for Australia. 
The trouble with the Australian Labor Party was its bitter hatred of private enterprise. The Labor Party wanted a piece of every cake irrespective of whether it left enough cake for anybody else. So incentives were killed off. We have seen the problems in the coal areas. So many companies were concerned because they could have been forced to the wall if this sort of thing had continued. The other aspect is that although the Fraser Government has seen fit to reduce the coal levy it has also made it clear that it hopes that as time goes on this levy can be reduced. I hope it will be removed completely. As the Treasurer pointed out- 
It is obvious it is not possible to remove it at one stroke. It will however be reduced immediately, in what the Government regards as a first step towards completely phasing out this particular tax within 3 years. 
This Government has stuck to its word on so many things that I am confident that it will stick to its word in this respect. We have seen what happened with tax indexation. The promise at the election was that we would introduce tax indexation. We did not bother to introduce it on a gradual scale. We introduced tax indexation. What may be lost on the roundabout in regard to the coal levy can be gained on the swings. The shortcoming of the Opposition when it was in government was that it was too jolly shortsighted to see that with a bit of encouragement to mining companies throughout Australia there could be an expansion of the mining industry with further development of new projects. We would have had a situation of increased employment and development of new townships because of mining. We would have increased overseas earnings through mining. But the Labor Party's blindness and hatred of private enterprise and overseas investment and its desire to nationalise everything drove many companies away from further exploration and the expenditure of risk capital. Companies were not prepared to take on exploration because they had seen that if they took on all these risks they would eventually hand over to the Government. The Labor Government was not interested in co-operation with companies but rather it wanted to take over control of the companies and their profits. There is more I would like to say with regard to mining, particularly in the area of the oil industry. I referred to the mineral sections of mining. I refer in exactly the same way to oil and the petroleum industry. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether he has received any complaints concerning a letter sent by a Miss Karen B. Rush in relation to the Women and Politics Conference held in Canberra last year and the possibility of holding such a conference in each State towards the end of this year. Is the Minister aware that these letters were sent out to addressees in at least 2 States in parliamentary pre-paid envelopes? Can the Minister advise who provided these envelopes to a private individual and whether it is in order for envelopes which are meant to be for the use of senators and members for their parliamentary work to be used by other people? 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question. I will repeat that question. I hope that the Minister will have an answer. I ask the Minister whether he had seen reports that an Aboriginal convicted in the South Australian Supreme Court for killing a woman had been handed back to his tribe for tribal law and justice to be applied for bis misdeed. Can the Minister say whether this Supreme Court decision will conflict in any way with the application of Australian law generally, particularly in relation to any future actions of Aborigines under their tribal laws which may be in direct conflict with Australian laws? Can the Minister now supply the answer? 
When speaking in support of the Budget last night, I made reference to the fact that, when the Fraser Government came to power last year, Australia could be described only as being in a complete economic mess, with inflation at its highest and at that stage unemployment at its highest level ever. There was uncertainty generally in the community and a lack of confidence throughout industry and commerce. Among the many matters with which I dealt in my speech last night, I made reference to the mining industry and to the incentives and encouragements that had been given in the Budget to that industry which had shown such a downturn especially with respect to exploration in the last 2 years. One finds exactly the same position in the petroleum or oil industry. This has been a tragedy. In 1972 exploration in the oil industry in Australia was expanding rapidly. There were confidence and encouragement in the industry. One would have hoped that this would have continued. 
It is interesting to note if we look at exploration activity in that industry that in 1 972 a total of 101 wells for exploration purposes were drilled. In the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 a progressive downturn occurred to the point where in 1975 only 21 wells were drilled for exploration purposes. In the first half of this year only 8 such wells have been drilled. I repeat those figures: The number drilled for exploration purposes has suffered a downturn from 101 wells in 1972 to 21 wells in 1975. This downturn occurred at a time when the energy crisis prevailed throughout the world and when a great need existed not only to continue such exploration but also for government to give incentive and encouragement in that area of exploration whose development was necessary not only because of the need to supply Australia's needs but also because of the cost of oil imports with which I shall deal in a moment. If we look at the production of and demand for crude oil we find that last year domestic production totalled nearly 150 million barrels and that it is estimated that by 1985, provided that no new reserves have been discovered and developed, annual production will have fallen to less than 100 million barrels. If we relate these facts to imports and to the cost of oil it is interesting to note that in 1 970, just prior to the development of the Bass Strait field, Australia was importing nearly 137 million barrels of oil at a cost of $270m. In the next year, after Bass Strait oil was brought on stream, our imports dropped to some 98 million barrels. Last year, 1975, our imports of crude oil totalled only about 83 million barrels but the cost of the imported oil has escalated to some $846m. 
One can appreciate what will happen in this country if we continue not to get new discoveries and increased production of crude oil in Australia. Not only will we lose the benefit of our indigenous supply; we will find that we will have to expend far more to buy oil from overseas. In 1975 our consumption of crude oil totalled 206 million barrels of which, as I have said, we produced some 150 million barrels. With the rapid decline of indigenous production after 1985 it is estimated that the consumption gap will widen from the current 50 million barrels to approximately 150 million barrels. It is estimated that Australia will have to import approximately two-thirds of its requirements. Let us consider what this will cost. There is one estimate that this could cost Australia some $2,2 50m annually. Some authorities go as far as saying that this could cost Australia some $4,000m per annum. Therefore we can see the need to encourage exploration to continue in this country as it did until 1 972. 
It is most unfortunate that we have reached this tragic situation in an industry which was booming for so long. Because of the lack of incentives, the lack of encouragement- in fact the disencouragement- there has been this total downturn. Whilst dealing with self-sufficiency I should point out that it is said that to remain twothirds self-sufficient in petroleum, as we are at the moment, by 1 990 Australia will need to discover more than 3000 million barrels of oil in the next few years. This is equivalent to finding another 2 oil provinces the size of the Bass Strait field. Having said those things and having referred to the need for government encouragement and incentives for oil companies to get out and explore I should add that we should encourage companies to come back to Australia to explore for oil because many companies left our shores. They were not prepared to take risks and then find themselves screwed down by the previous Government and  Mr Connor  which was not only going to control them, their administration and their markets in many ways but go so far as to nationalise the industry. 
I should refer to the risk factor involved in exploration and to the number of wells drilled before a productive well is found. It is estimated that for every 200 exploration wells drilled onshore in Australia one commercial well will be found. Off-shore the chance of success is increased, to one successful well for every 30 wells drilled. We should relate these things back to the costs involved, particularly in view of the rate of inflation in the last two or three years. Unfortunately the North West Shelf has not been brought into production although it is a gas field with a high potential. It was estimated in 1973 that it would cost a little over $ 1,000m to bring it into production but today it is estimated it would cost in the vicinity of $2 ,000m. 
When we look to exploration itself we find how much drilling costs have risen. Today it costs approximately $50,000 or more a day to operate a drilling rig off-shore. Recently I visited an offshore rig at Barrow Island, Western Australia, which cost some $20,000 a day to operate and one well has cost $5m. Encouraging amounts of gas were found in that well but it cannot yet be declared a commercial proposition because it is necessary to drill further wells in the hope that they can get at least another two, three or four wells containing the same volume of gas. Then the field could become productive. But having become productive, what of the costs of development? The costs can be higher still. I have been given some figures relating to the cost of a platform. They show that a typical off-shore production platform located in 130 metres of water about 1 50 kilometres off-shore would cost about $200m and the pipeline to the shore would cost about another $200m. 
One can realise the great amount of money involved in exploration and, having explored and been lucky enough to discover oil or gas, the great amount of capital that has to be invested before anything comes on stream and there is any return. Hence there is a need for the Government again to give incentives to an industry which can make such a contribution in looking for natural resources in Australia and in turn create so much revenue for this country and a position of independence in this important resource. A few years ago this industry was screwed down by a few oil producing countries which monopolised the situation and created such a inflationary position throughout the world through excessive crude oil prices and artificially created shortages of supplies. 
Having said those things I commend the Government for this Budget generally. I commend the Budget for many of the specific things that the Government has done. I am delighted to see that it has done so much to give a bit more life and incentive to the mining and petroleum exploration field- a field of great potential and benefit to this country. 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in Australia; 
Aware that the Federal Government's Budget for 1976-77 does not include measures to restore full employment in the building and construction industry; 
Alarmed at the fact that unemployment is at the highest level in New South Wales and Queensland since the depression years, with clear indications that the position will further deteriorate. 
Aware that at the same time more and more people are being denied proper housing and other building needs of great social importance are not being carried out. 
Aware that the apprenticeship system is being seriously threatened and many apprentices are unable to complete their apprenticeship. This along with the fact that thousands of tradesmen have been driven out of the industry, will, in years to come create a chronic shortage of skilled workers to the detriment of the community and with enormous adverse economic repercussions. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully request that members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly: 
Government construction of homes, schools, hospitals and public works development projects, employment and training of unemployed young people, restoration of finance cuts in sewerage and urban development work, provide finance to land commission to provide cheaper land for home building, provide low interest home loans finance. 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Is it a fact that aquaculture does not come under the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-73? If this is so, will the Minister make inquiries to have aquaculture- a relatively new Australian industry dealing with the culturing of fish and shellfish in water- included in the Schedule? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security: In view of the serious concern being expressed over the possible dangers to people who have been in the area of the exposed uranium tailings dump in Port Pirie, is the Minister now able to say whether the matter is a State or Commonwealth responsibility? In the event of any sickness resulting from exposure to radioactivity at this dump, will the Government make every endeavour to ensure that such persons are duly and fully compensated? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

REPORT OF FIRE PROTECTION MEASURES AT RGH CONCORD AND PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO SAME 
On Wednesday the 3 November 1976 a meeting of Hospital Patrol Officers and Fire Officers was convened. The Hospital Management, at this meeting informed those present that it intended to integrate the Fire Control into the Patrol and Gatekeepers Section. 
In our opinion this would be a retrograde step, as at the present the Fire Control is manned by  S  experienced men. These being 2 Senior Firemen, 1 Captain, 1 Second Class Fireman all of whom received their training with the N.S. W. Fire Brigade and 1 Naval Fireman who received training in the RAN. These men maintain over 600 portable extinguishers, 109 external hydrants, a fire tender and other equipment in first class order. They also continuously man the Fire Control Watchroom, where the Fire Alarm Console is situated, this console automatically contacts the state brigade as well as alerting the Hospital Fireman and indicating to him the position of any fire. Under the proposed new scheme the Watchroom would be unmanned from 0600 until 2030 hours daily. The (Fireman Patrolman) being on gate duty 120 metres away. 
A real danger of loss of life by fire exists at this establishment due to the large number of patients and living in staff housed in weatherboard buildings. At the present time after the receipt of a call we are in attendance in a few minutes and although the N.S.W. Fire Brigade respond with all speed, the time lag through no fault of their own is too long. There are a number of factors to be considered, the local station may be elsewhere, they could be involved in an accident or have mechanical trouble etc. 
If as proposed the two sections are amalgamated the Hospital Fire Officers would be expected to tram the Patrol Officers as Firemen, some of these men are over 60 years of age, others are approaching 60 while others do not have a drivers licence. Yet they at times would be in charge of fire fighting operations. Since the 1 January 1976 the Fire Control has attended 97 calls, 14 of which directly involved fire. The remainder were a combination of false alarms, or investigations of smoke, smells of burning, etc. All fires in this hospital have been extinguished by the hospital fireman before the arrival of outside assistance, a number of these most certainly would have taken hold only for the alarm system alerting the fireman on duty and his immediate response. 
Under the new system a fully trained man may not be on duty at all. The hospital has the largest fire alarm system in the Southern Hemisphere, incorporated in this is a Reichel Thermal Detection System with approximately 9000 Detectors, Smoke detectors a Minerva CO2 system and a Sprinkler System. 
We would like to point out that with the exception of the Sprinkler and CO2 System that the main system in this establishment only give a warning of fire. Without a continuous vigil in the Watchroom this is nullified. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Does the Minister recall my asking him a question in relation to aquaculture being brought under the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1973? In the recent reply I received from him the Acting Treasurer stated that sales tax exemption currently provided for primary production equipment would be of little or no benefit to aquaculture. I now ask the Minister whether he will again give consideration to giving sales tax exemption to the materials and equipment used in aquaculture and not necessarily under the heading of primary production. 
I present the following petition from 131 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Having learned of the unjust and harsh incarceration in Vladimir prison by the Soviet Authorities of a Prisoner of Conscience of Latvian nationality Gunars Rode, we the undersigned Australian citizens respectfully petition the Australian Senate and through it the Australian Government to use all its diplomatic resources and influence to secure the release of the said Prisoner of Conscience in order that he may enjoy the Human Rights as set out in the United Nations Charter, and as agreed to by all signatories of the European Security and Co-operation Conference in Helsinki. 
This petition is submitted because great anxiety is felt for Gunars Rode, as it is known that to obtain the very minimum of the abovementioned Human Rights, in March of this year he commenced a hunger strike and his fate since then is unknown. 
We further feel great concern for the numerous Prisoners of Conscience of many nationalities kept in Soviet prisons, labour camps and so-called mental institutions and pray for their wellbeing and release. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I ask him whether he has seen Press reports that the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  is keen to have a uranium enrichment plant established at Redcliff in South Australia. Has  Mr Dunstan  had any discussions with the Federal Government on the possible establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia? If such a proposal were to be undertaken, would the Federal Government be involved in a feasibility study or any such type of study in any way? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations state what the recent and current industrial stoppages are costing Australia? Is it a fact than many of these strikes are being caused by radical sections within some of the trade unions? Has the Government made inquiries or are inquiries being made into the political background and associations of some of these people? What steps is the Government taking to see whether outside influences are being used to disrupt the Australian economy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following the reply of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in the  Commonwealth Record  of 9 November this year relating to speculation that the Australian Broadcasting Commission symphony orchestras were under some sort of Government threat, I ask whether the Minister is aware that concern is still being expressed as to the future of these orchestras following his statement of that date in which he stated: 
All we have proposed is that while the ABC continues its entrepreneurial activities, particularly in relation to orchestras, the real cost of these activities should be reflected by the Commission in its annual reports. 
As there is still this concern, will the Minister make a further definitive statement on this matter to clarify the position, particularly in relation to the Government's attitude? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the general cuts in government expenditure. I ask: How do the cuts in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's funding compare with the cuts in the expenditure of other government departments, and what are some of the actual amounts and percentage differences? As the cuts in the ABC's expenditure are affecting so many good programs of the ABC, is there any way in which this unfortunate situation can be rectified? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen Press speculation that the Government may change its current attitude towards tariffs? Will the Minister state the Government's attitude and policy towards tariff changes? Has he seen reports that the Onkaparinga woollen mills in South Australia have dismissed some 90 people from the textile section? Is he aware that company officials state that this is due to lack of orders as a result of imports from New Zealand and other places? Following the recent devaluation of the Australian dollar and New Zealand very quickly following suit, will the Minister make inquiries in relation to wool and textile imports from New Zealand under the current New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement? 
While over the years the population of the world has been very concerned and many scientists have written long exercises on the frightening position of a population explosion and the consequent world shortage of foodstuffs to feed those people, in recent times particularly grave concern has been expressed over the increasing use of energy and the problems of declining energy resources in the world today. It is estimated that approximately two and a half times more energy will be needed to the year 2000 than was needed at all previous times- and I emphasise that- up to 1975 if the growth in energy use continues at an annual rate of some  Vh  per cent. I think those figures speak for themselves. With the number of emerging developing nations, which as time goes on will have greater energy requirements, it would be fair to say that the estimate of two and a half times is rather conservative. If that is the case and there is a great energy gap, what is the alternative? If energy demands are not met, the only alternative we have is, as  Senator Wriedt  said, that there will be a reduction in our standard of living; but with a continuation of the energy gap there will be more than just a reduction in standards of living. We will see human tragedies throughout the world, particularly in the developing countries, whose development will come suddenly to a standstill. 
It is all very well for people such as Friends of the Earth and many others to say that we cannot afford to do these things, that we should stick to our present energy resources and use them. But when they are gone, what then? Will housewives be prepared to cut back on their electricity usage and do away with their washing machines? Will we be prepared to cut down on our transport as we know it today? Whether we like it or not, the world has come to live with its present energy methods, in communications, domestic appliances or other things. We have come a long way from the tall timber, and there are some people who suggest that we should go back to it. I believe that we have no alternative but to go ahead and look for further energy sources, and in that regard perhaps I could quote from the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry in which  Mr Justice  Fox deals with nuclear energy and alternatives. In chapter 15, at page 161 he said: 
The vulnerability of modern, technically advanced economies to changes in the price or availability of energy resources became almost universally recognised. Government policies in those countries were and are now being developed which in general seek to reduce dependence on imported oil. 
There is also an interesting quote from  Mr Justice  Collins, who said: 
By the end of this century world supply will be failing and ever higher prices prevail'. If replacements are not found, either in alternative forms of energy or in methods of transport, there will be serious effects on economic and social welfare. 
Before dealing with the alternatives, I wish to consider the current situation. In recent years the policies of some countries have been dominated and directed by energy requirements and, perhaps more dangerously, by the control of energy supplies. In that regard, I refer to what happened not very long ago when the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries created an artificial shortage of crude oil and also dramatically increased the prices of crude oil. We saw the problems which existed throughout the world when that happened and we saw the escalation of inflation throughout the world. The International Petroleum Encyclopaedia of 1975 set out the cost of oil imports into Western Europe, and stated that in 1972 the base price of import crudes was something like $US11. billion, in 1973 it had escalated to some SUS19.7 billion and in 1974, through the influence of OPEC, it had risen to SUS5.4 billion. One does not need to dwell on the problems that that created not in industrial countries like Japan, which imports nearly 99 per cent of her energy requirements, and West Germany and other countries, which were greatly affected by the shortage of crude oil. 
We should not be too sure of the future. Who is to say that the OPEC countries will not do it again? It is not beyond the realms of probability. We already know that this year the price of crude oils could again increase. We also know, having seen the problems which existed before when the artificial shortage in energy resources was created, that countries cannot be held to ransom, particularly the industrialised countries. We know the problems that are created when industry is disrupted, particularly the intensive industrialised countries such as Japan, Germany and the United States of America, to cite but three. Looking further at the crude oil situation, Russia and the United States of America are today conserving their crude oil as much as possible because there is a need for the longer term production of industrial feed stocks of such things as drugs and fertilisers which will be needed in future years, fertilisers to assist in food production and drugs to assist in the welfare of humanity itself. So again I refer to what  Mr 
Justice Fox said when he dealt with the vulnerability of modern society today and its dependence upon crude oil and our known energy resources. 
Turning to the alternatives, there are many who talk about the coal bridge, and it is an interesting alternative to crude oil. Australia is a very fortunate country in that it has a great abundance of energy resources, with one exception, and that is crude oil. Because of problems which have occurred in recent years, the situation is that our demand is increasing, our production is slowing down, and we are becoming more and more dependent upon overseas countries for our supply of crude oil. Unless we find more oil we will become more and more dependent on other countries. It has been suggested that Australia, because of its huge coal reserves, should mine more coal and export it to Japan to supply her energy requirements for electricity generation, and the same could be said with regard to Europe. Firstly, I think that this should be looked at in a rational manner. What are the economies of such a proposal? What is coal going to cost by the time it gets to places like Europe. One must look at this very critically and discount much of the argument. While there is no doubt that European countries do have big reserves of coal, what is the position with those coal reserves? Today they are operating in very deep mines and the operation is becoming more costly all the time. In Germany, France and the United Kingdom the cost of coal today is something like $ US 50 a ton, while Australia is in a very fortunate position of being able to produce coal for home consumption at somewhere between $2 and $9 a tonne. 
So once again one comes back to the basic issue, and that is economics. On that basis alone we can discount the argument that coal can replace crude oil. Many people say that coal would fill the bill as an alternative source of energy, but if we discount the economics of the argument and look at the aspect of pollution alone, what de we find? It has been said that typical coal fired power plants probably kill about 50 people a year through air pollution. Air pollution from coal fired plants results in about $US17m damage to health, property and vegetation; coal fired plants consume vast quantities- something like 200 lb every second- of non-renewable resources, and air pollution from those plants may be causing long term climatic changes on earth due to the carbon dioxide discharged. 
This is contained in an article by  Mr Bernard  L. Cohen in the  Bulletin of Atomic Scientists.  The last comment is the one which perhaps is the most frightening, namely, that whilst we are concerned with localised air pollution and all the dangers and the health hazards it creates the danger is the long term climatic change which could affect the earth itself. Scientists have estimated that, if we were to turn to the greater use of coal, because of the filtering in the outer atmosphere there could be increases in temperatures on earth of between 4 per cent and S per cent. Perhaps that does not sound much in actual temperature: but, if we look at the overall situation and go further into what the scientists say, we see that this increase in global temperature is enough to melt the ice caps and, to give some example of what might happen if the ice caps melted, we would finish up without one capital city in Australia because every one of them would be under the sea. I refer to this matter as a layman, but these are statements which are made by scientists and which reflect the grave concern they have expressed for many years that the pollution in the outer atmosphere is having a very dangerous effect upon the earth's temperatures, with in turn its consequent effects. 
So we look to alternative sources of energy. I have dealt with crude oil, gas and coal. We can look to wind, tidal, hydro-electric, geo-thermal and solar energy as well as to nuclear energy. Whilst in some countries in specific areas one may be able to get some wind generation at some time in the day and on certain days of the week, one can not guarantee continuity of supply. Therefore there would be a need for research and for a huge storage capacity. This also applies to tidal energy; although the tides are regular there would still be grave problems with storage. One of the big problems is the great peaks and troughs in the demand for electricity. It is estimated that there would need to be excessive generation and excessive storage far above the requirements of normal usage in order to meet the peaks. Many countries have hydroelectricity, but they are fortunate countries which have the environment for it. Let us look around the world and see how many countries have such an environment. They are extremely limited. We are looking at energy on a global basis and there are countries such as Japan which do not have the capacity for hydro-electricity. So one must discount this source of energy. So we look to geothermal power, Whilst the Japanese are doing a lot of work on this subject, it is estimated that it could be at least the year 2000 before they will be anywhere near getting sufficient energy from this source. There is a lot to be learned before they move into it. 
One turns next to solar energy, an energy form in respect of which Australia is very fortunate because of its great open spaces and the great amount of sunshine and clear skies we have. However, whilst a lot of research has been done, more has to be done. There are great limitations on solar energy at this stage. According to the scientific papers, the great majority of scientists say that again it will be at least the year 2000 before solar energy can be looked upon as being a regular and reliable source of energy. Even with solar energy there are still grave storage problems because it is dark for a lot of the time when power is required. It is all very well to look at the Australian environment, but in the European environment some countries have only three or four hours of sunshine on the days when they really require energy- when it is cold, when homes need heating, when industry needs to be kept going and when more lighting is required. So the excessive demand occurs when there is the minimum sunlight and collection of solar energy. There is much to be learned in this field. I hope that we as a nation and other nations will do much more research in it because I believe that solar energy, with its cleanliness, will be the great energy giver to the world in years to come; but in the interim period there is this energy gap about which we have been talking and we have to turn to nuclear energy. 
Many countries have looked to alternatives. I have mentioned Japan which was screwed down heavily by the artificial crude oil shortages and prices imposed by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. One can look at West Germany, America and so many other countries which are turning to alternatives. At present there are 159 nuclear power units in operation. There are a further 337 proposed nuclear units or units already under construction. This is a fantastic amount. The escalation in nuclear energy is taking place in the United States of Amenca, where there are 54 nuclear power stations and another 168 are proposed. Canada has seven and is proposing to build another eleven. France proposes increasing from ten to twenty-one; West Germany from seven to twenty and Japan from eight to twenty-one. And so one can look down the list and see the countries which are not going to be commercially blackmailed by what could happen to oil supplies and can see that there is a great need to fill this energy gap. 
Australia has some 25 per cent of the known uranium deposits in the world. One appreciates that there are the grave dangers of proliferation which  Senator Wriedt  mentioned earlier tonight and that there is the danger of nuclear warfare. But most countries have uranium. It is there in the mountains, in the rocks and in the sea, and most countries can produce uranium. It is the cost factor which then comes in. Countries which seek nuclear warfare and are hell bent on such destruction will not worry about the  cost  of production or about the cost to humanity. Not for a minute do I think that these countries would sit back and think about cost. So let us discount the idea that uranium can be withheld from these countries, because all countries can get it if they want it. I cannot accept that statement which has been made by many people. I turn now to the dangers of nuclear energy itself and of nuclear power plants. To give an example of these dangers I again quote from the paper by  Mr Bernard  L. Cohen, where he states: since our country - that is, America- needs a power plant for every half million people, and a nuclear plant kills an average of 0.01 people per year, an individual's probability of being killed by a nuclear power plant is one chance in50 million per year. The simplest comparison is with automobile accidents which kill one person per SO million passenger miles. Nuclear power is as dangerous as driving one extra mile per year, an average of5 extra yards per day. 
Dealing with the aspect of pollution in cities from coal-fired generators, he said: 
Another interesting example comes from the fact that city dwellers have a life expectancy 5 years shorter than that of farmers. This corresponds to an average death risk of one in 500 per year from living in a city. So nuclear power represents the same danger to an average citizen as the danger to a farmer from spending5 minutes extra per year visiting a city. 
I appreciate that there are problems with nuclear waste, but much research is being done in this field. To my knowledge, American scientists today have a method of handling waste whereby they reduce it to a glass-like form in a type of button which is nearly insoluble but which is easily stored and is far better than the liquid storage that is being used at present. Having said that, however, I admit that there are still problems. So many reliable countries are doing so much research at this time and are acting responsibly that one cannot fully accept the fear campaign with regard to nuclear waste, even though I accept that there are still problems associated with its disposal. I say quite frankly that Australia has a responsibility to assist the world in filling this energy gap. Whether or not we supply 25 per cent of the world's requirements, nuclear energy is being used. Australia can give assistance to those countries and I think 
Australia must give assistance to those countries. Whilst it is dangerous to read passages from a report I shall take the liberty to do it. I hope I am not taking anything out of context. There are 2 important passages of the Fox Committee report I should like to leave with the Senate. On page 177 the report states: 
Leaving aside questions respecting terrorism, nuclear wastes and proliferation, our assessment of the position is that while the operations of the nuclear power industry need close regulation and constant surveillance, they probably do not entail risks greater in sum than those inherent in alternative energy industries. Certainly those risks provide no proper basis for a refusal on our part to supply the advanced industrial countries which are likely to be our customers. 
One could give other quotes, but I wish to finish by quoting No. 8 of the Committee's principal findings and recommendations, which states: 
No sales of Australian uranium should take place to any country not party to the NPT. Export should be subject to the fullest and most effective safeguards agreements, and be supported by fully adequate back-up agreements applying to the entire civil nuclear industry in the country supplied. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  as recently as 12 August this year when in London stated that we will be selling uranium only to those countries which are members of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, to those countries which are agreeing to the international safeguards, and that we will be wanting to draw up bilateral trade agreements with countries to ensure that all of those requirements are met. If we are careful, cautious and responsible in the way in which we sell our uranium to those countries which need extra energy resources and if those countries stand by their commitment I, as one senator in this place, say that we should export uranium. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that the report of P. G. Pak-Poy and Associates Pty Ltd on South Australian tourism, which cost some $80,000, was prepared with financial assistance by the Federal Government? Is it a fact that the Federal Government agreed to this report being tabled in the South Australian Parliament some weeks ago? Is the Minister aware that this report has not yet been tabled in the South Austraiian Parliament? Can the Minister state whether there is any reason, particularly from the Federal Government's point of view, why this report has not yet been tabled? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she has seen the report that the United States of America is concerned that a dangerous type of influenza may hit that country this winter and is spending some $135m on universal vaccination. Will the Minister make inquiries into this matter and if there is any reason whatsoever for concern that this virus may reach Australia, will the Government have vaccines available to protect the Australian community against an outbreak of any such virus in this country? 
-by leave- I lay on the table the report of the Australian delegation to the Sixty-third Interparliamentary Union Conference held at Madrid from 23 September to 1 October 1976. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I ask the Minister: If, as was claimed, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition did not make at the memorial service on 7 December the printed speech as circulated to the Press Gallery, can the printed speech of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition now be circulated through the ministerial documents service as the official speech given by the Deputy Leader? 
We have listened to quite critical, and sometimes highly critical, comment tonight from the Opposition, particularly that which accuses the Government of bringing in this legislation in haste. Is it the intention of the Opposition to continue to argue that there has not existed a need to change the present legislation? I remind the Opposition that when it was in government it introduced into the Parliament amending legislation in this area on 2 occasions. Fortunately the Labor Government did not have the numbers in this place to have that legislation passed. The legislation it introduced was not the type of legislation which would have been in the best interests of the electronics media of this country. However, I will not go into that matter tonight. I think it shows clearly that the Opposition, when in government, was very conscious of the need to change the existing legislation in this area. The Opposition has conducted inquiries on this subject. The Fraser Government conducted a departmental inquiry this year. It is as a result of that inquiry that we now have this legislation before us. 
As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech, he regards this legislation as being transitional legislation because many more things need to be done. When one looks at what has happened in the electronics media since the original Broadcasting and Television Bill was introduced into this Parliament, one realises that there is a great need for change. A great deal needs to be done by means of legislation in so many areas. Today we have not only the old amplitude modulation radio but also frequency modulation radio. Television is moving out of the very high frequency area into the ultra high frequency field. We have had such a great increase in the number of radio stations that they are greatly reducing the gaps left in the frequencies in the air waves. Air waves are a very scarce commodity. They are a commodity that belongs to the people of this country. Because of their scarcity we must make sure that there is planning and legislation to take the best advantage we possibly can to give the greatest benefit, the greatest spread of news and other things that come with the benefits, if properly used, of both television and radio for the people of this country. We can go further and look to the advances in technology that are taking place. We can look to what is happening in the field of cable television and so many other fields. There is a great need to get on with this revised legislation. 
It is all very well for the Labor Party to say that this is hasty legislation. There are plenty of provisions within this transitional legislation, much of which will be positive legislation, that will bring structural changes that can only be of benefit. I was pleased to hear tonight even  Senator Douglas  McClelland admit that the Tribunal is a very good idea but, at the same time, I was surprised to hear him accuse the Government of establishing what he called a monumental bureaucracy. I only wish that he could have spelled out in detail what he meant by monumental bureaucracy. Quite frankly, I cannot see what he meant. Basically, 3 major changes are being made. We will no longer have an Australian Broadcasting Control Board. That will be replaced by the Tribunal. We will have a Broadcasting Council which will be a non-statutory body. The Commission will be enlarged from 9 to 1 1 Commissioners. I commend the Government for what it has done in this respect. 
The Opposition has seen fit to try to play politics and make accusations but are members of the Opposition prepared to stand in their places and say that the States are not entitled to representation on the Commission? Is the State of Tasmania not entitled to a Commissioner? Is my own State of South Australia not entitled to a Commissioner? That is the position which applies at present.  Dr Cass,  when debating this legislation in the other place last week, stated that when he was Minister for the Media by the effluxion of time the Tasmanian representative on the Commission retired and he implied that he had to appoint a Victorian woman because he could not find a suitable candidate in Tasmania. I should like the doctor to go to Tasmania and make that statement. I am certain that I could go to Tasmania and find somebody competent enough to do the job, and I do not know many people in Tasmania. There is no recognition of the right and the need of a State to have representation on the Commission. This Government has seen fit to do that. It has also seen fit to state that there will be a minimum of 2 women on the Commission and to enlarge the Commission from 9 to 1 1 Commissioners. 
No doubt the Opposition is very sorry tonight that the Bill does not provide for 9 Commissioners. Opposition senators would have loved to have levelled accusations at the Government that it was going to start hiring and firing and swinging axes. If Opposition senators care to read the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  they will see it clearly spelled out that no current Commissioner on the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be fired. I think that the Opposition is a little testy tonight because it has not had the opportunity to start having a shot at us about that. Criticism was levelled at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tonight by  Senator Button  when he led in this debate for the Opposition. He accused the Prime Minister virtually of playing politics. He accused the ABC of playing politics. He also went so far as to more or less imply, as  Senator McLaren  did, that the Government is screwing the ABC financially. It is unfortunate that there have been severe cuts in many departments and many bodies, including the ABC. This is a carry-over from economic problems that this Government inherited. I refer to the Minister's statement on page 3329 of House of Representatives  Hansard  in regard to the finances of the ABC: 
This year the ABC's budget was decreased from S 1 38m to $129m, a reduction of $9m or about 6 per cent. This reduction was much smaller than the overall across the board cuts in the Budget which were of the order of 10 per cent  . . It is known to the ABC and to  Sir Henry  Bland, as it is known to every other government instrumentality, that they can come back to the Government with a submission based upon costs which are unavoidable.  Sir Henry  is aware that his case will be considered on its merits when he chooses to send it to us. 
I think that is important. There is an option that if the needs are such the  Chairman  of the Commission can go back to the Government and appeal. Criticism has also been levelled with regard to the limitations upon the aspect of who will be administering standards. The Tribunal is a quasi judicial body. As the Minister stated this is an interim measure at this stage but it will eventually be permanent. I think that what the Minister actually said should be put on the record in this chamber. I should like to quote from a statement by the Minister on 18 November which appears on page 2861 of House of Representatives  Hansard: 
In addition, and also as an interim measure, the Tribunal will, under the provisions of this Bill, assume the responsibilities of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in administering the present standards of broadcasting practice. The Tribunal will be directed by me to hold a public inquiry into the concept of a greater degree of 'self regulation' by the industry itself as proposed in the report, based on minimum standards to be determined by the Tribunal. The Tribunal will also recommend whether the national sector should conform to such standards. The public will thus have the opportunity of expressing its view whether the ABC should be subject to the same minimum standards of broadcasting practice as the commercial and public broadcasters. 
I think this is most important. Whilst many things have been said tonight, one thing that should be said in fairness is that the Government is giving the people the opportunity to say what they would like with regard to standards in programs, whether they be minimum or maximum, to give an indication to the Tribunal as to what those standards and the guidelines should be. There has been much concern- I myself have expressed concern- about certain standards of programs. I think that the public should be given the opportunity to judge. This is what this Government is prepared to do. Another responsibility that is to be given to the Tribunal will be the issuing of licences, something that at present the Minister himself does. The Opposition cannot accuse this Government of playing politics with the electronic media. It has gone further than any government in the past has been prepared to go. It has given more responsibility to an independent body. This is most important. I would only hope that in fairness somebody on the other side of the chamber would admit this and give credit to the Government where credit really is due in this very important area. 
Another very important aspect of the legislationthe Opposition accuses us of being hasty in introducing it, but if the Opposition were honest it would have to admit that this is very necessaryrelates to technical planning, for which there has been a great need for a long time. There has been an absence of any co-ordinated planning of the use of the electronic media and the airwaves. I am very pleased to see that the proposals within this legislation spell out clearly that the Postal and Telecommunications Department now will be in charge of the physical and technical sides of research. This is most important, because in the past we have had an absolute conglomeration in this area. We have had a lack of communication. We have had duplication and waste of resources in this area. Now they will be centralised- I am not a centralist- in such a way that we will have a more effective situation with regard to technological advances and research, which has been and is badly needed. 
I turn now to the Broadcasting Council. I suppose that this would be regarded as part of the monolithic bureaucracy that has been referred to tonight by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The Broadcasting Council, whilst a non-statutory body, will act in an advisory capacity. It will consist of representatives of commercial, national and public broadcasting, as well as departmental representatives. It will act in an advisory capacity to the Minister and the Tribunal. With regard to the Broadcasting Council, I ask the Minister to clarify 2 areas for me. One is when this Council will be established and whether it will be established at the same time as the Tribunal, and the other is what the actual functions of the Council will be. 
I also refer to public broadcasting, which has a very important part to play in our country today. While the previous Government was in power, although public broadcasting had my full support I was particularly concerned at the way in which it was being introduced on a willy nilly basis. It was done in such a way that we could have finished up with all sorts of problems for the public broadcasters. I want to make it clear in this chamber that I am not blaming  Senator Douglas  McClelland for this. He tried to go about this matter slowly and cautiously so as to give public broadcasting an opportunity to develop fully and, by experimentation, to develop properly. But it was after he left office that we suddenly had the great proliferation which concerned many people in Australia. This was able to be done in the past because these licences were issued on an experimental basis under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. I am pleased to see that the Minister, in the amendments that were proposed in the House of Representatives, has spelt out very clearly that public broadcasting licences will be issued on the same basis as commercial licences. This is very important. Those people who are in need will be able to express their needs and to do so in such a way that there will be a public inquiry. They will then know that they have been listened to responsibly and that those who have listened know that they are responsible people who wish to establish such a station. 
Time is running out for me, and there are 2 more areas to which I will refer. There are quite a few areas on which I would like to have expanded tonight. I refer to 2 very important aspects of this new legislation which deal with the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am very pleased to see that at last the staff of the ABC will be recognised in this legislation. 
It will be recognised in that there will be a consultative group on the same basis as the Council. That reference has been made in the legislation. It recognises that the ABC staff will be given the opportunity to discuss with management via its consultative councils. This will take in all arms of the staff. The staff association and anybody connected with the ABC will have the opportunity to have representatives sit down and discuss with management. This is an excellent idea. I hope that it will be encouraged and firmly established by the ABC. 
Communication is one of the most important things. It is a very necessary part which perhaps has been overlooked in the past in some areas. 
Finally, I refer briefly to another very important aspect, and that is the fact that the staff no longer will be bound by Public Service regulations. The ABC will now be able to negotiate salaries, the reclassification of positions and conditions. I think this is something that has been sadly lacking for a very long time. There is a lot of talent amongst the staff of the ABC. But there has been a lot of frustrated talent amongst the staff of the ABC because, under the old system, in many cases length of service had a greater import than ability and initiative and many of the brighter fellows were overlooked. This legislation gives many of these people an opportunity perhaps to move up the ladder more quickly than they would have in the past. It could give them the opportunity to branch out into so many fields in the ABC and make greater contributions to it. 
As I said before, there are many more things I should like to say. I shall be having a few more things to say at the Committee stage. I commend the Government on this legislation, because it is a start. There is a lot more to do, but it is a start. It will give the Government the opportunity to get on with the job and to do something within the electronic media that has been needed for a long time. I look forward to the next legislation with interest, to see what proposals the Government will have for the betterment of the electronic media in this country. 
I have listened with interest to the comments of the Opposition speakers and to the arguments they have been propounding. I was interested in the comments  Senator James  McClelland made when he referred to the commercial interests of commercial radio and television and to the fact that they were not worried about standards during this so-called interim period. I remind the Senate of what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has said today, that is, that the Tribunal is going to hold a public inquiry so that the people of this country can come forward and give evidence and pass comment. If the standards of these commercial sinners that are referred to by the Opposition are going to become so low, I am very certain that the people of Australia will come forward and say many critical things and will want to lay down very stringent standards. 
I feel that this responsibility should rest with the people concerned, that is, with the general public. It is all very well for us to stand here and use the term 'adequate and comprehensive'. Let one of the honourable senators opposite define for me what the Opposition means by 'adequate and comprehensive . It will be far better for the general public to come forward when the opportunity is given for the Tribunal to hold a public inquiry and set down standards that it thinks are necessary for this country. A lot of confusion surrounds this issue. A lot of discussion has been going on for a long time. We have problems with children's programs, on which we hear contradictory arguments. There are many areas about which people have been concerned and I am certain that people will come forward on this occasion and express their concern. I feel that they will be far better at setting down the definition, as they see it, of 'adequate and comprehensive ' than anyone else. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask: As the South Australian Government has undertaken studies for the possible establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia, subject to the mining of uranium in Australia, can the Minister state what level of discussions have taken place between the Federal Government and the South Australian Government in relation to the establishment of such a plant in South Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that Qantas Airways Ltd serves mainly French and otherwise overseas wines, not all Australian wines, on its overseas flights? As Qantas is an Australian international airline which is backed by the Australian Government and the country and which promotes itself as an Australian identity, will the Minister see what steps can be taken to have Qantas serve Australian wines and so assist in promoting the excellent products of this important Australian industry rather than some overseas products? 
I present the following petition from 32 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr President, I direct a question to you. In view of the blackout of Parliament House last Thursday night, which lasted some 30 minutes, I ask: What provision had been made for the lighting of Parliament House if such a situation arose? If some provisions were made, why was Parliament House blacked out for so long? For reasons of public safety and particularly for security reasons in Parliament House which could be at risk during a blackout, what steps are being taken to provide emergency lighting of Parliament House in the future, especially with regard to the forthcoming visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen? 
I rise to support the motion moved by  Senator Durack.  I have listened to the debate. With regard to standing order 242 I think that one must cast one's mind back to the time when the Standing Orders were drawn up. Then, communication was a great problem. Today we have jet travel and it is easy for honourable senators to get to Canberra. There was a time when many Federal members of Parliament stayed in Canberra for most of the session because of the problem of transport and communication generally. To a great extent we can discount some of the arguments put forward by speakers tonight. With regard to the call of the Senate and to giving honourable senators the opportunity to be here, as I understand the situation from the Government Whip- I can be corrected if I am wrong- at present we have no pairs. I think the Senate is almost at full strength. There may be one or two absentees. 
The argument has been used that the suspension of standing order 242 would not allow enough time for reasoned debate. As I understand the position, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has neither given notice that the guillotine will be applied nor suggested that the guillotine will be applied in any way. There has been no indication that a gag will be applied, but there has been every indication that plenty of time will be set aside for debate of the various issues. Hence I cannot accept the argument that there will not be enough time for reasoned debate. I admit that differences of opinion will be expressed during the period of the debate; nevertheless there will be enough time for reasoned debate. 
One has then to consider whether the members of the public will have an opportunity to debate the issues. The Senate will be deciding whether certain issues or recommendations regarding alteration of the Australian Constitution will go to the people. Having reached that decision, the people then will have time to debate the issues and make up their minds as to whether they want any changes or alterations to be made to the Constitution before a poll is held. So, firstly, I discount what has been said tonight. There is to be time for reasoned debate. I hope that there will not be any guillotine or gag applied. Secondly, we will have to decide in this chamber, following the decision of the House of Representatives, whether certain issues will be presented to the public regarding changes or alterations to the Constitution. There will be time then for members of the public to debate the issues presented to them and to make up their minds as to which way they will vote on those issues. I cannot support the argument tonight against the motion. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question. Following suggestions by some trade unions that Australian ships built overseas and not in Australian shipyards will be black banned, can the Minister state whether this proposed black ban will apply also to those Australian ships built in overseas shipyards and ordered by the previous Australian Labor Government? 
We are dealing with 3 Bills, the Representation Amendment Bill, the Census and Statistics Amendment Bill and the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. These Bills propose a number of amendments to various Acts of previous years, two of which go back to the year 1905. The Bills have been introduced as a result of 2 High Court decisions. For the record I shall quote part of the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  in relation to the 3 Bills: 
The High Court has now made a number of very important rulings which have changed this scheme of things and which require new procedures to be introduced as a matter of urgency. In the first place, the Court looked at the constitutional provision in section 24, namely, that the number of members to be chosen in the several States shall be determined 'whenever necessary'. The Court's view was that this means that the number of members to be chosen in the several States must be determined in time for each ordinary general election and that such elections must be held in accordance with the entitlements so determined. However, the Court recognised that this mandatory principle would not apply in the case of elections other than ordinary general elections. 
The Minister went on to say: 
The Bills contain provisions designed to ensure that the High Court's decision is given effect to and to ensure that a determination of the representation entitlement of the several States will be made in the twelfth month of the life of a House of Representatives. 
The Minister stated further: 
The High Court held invalid and of no effect the 1964 amendment which introduced the 'any remainder' formula as it did not comply with the requirements of section 24 of the Constitution relating to the nexus between the House of Representatives and the Senate and the proportional representation of the several States in the House of Representatives. 
I refer to that part of the Minister's second reading speech because it deals with the position where  we  now see that there will be a reduction in the number of members of the House of Representatives. This is due, of course, to the fact that in working out the quotas for the various States, whereas in the past this remainder aspect allowed a proportion of people over a quota to be taken into consideration for the provision of an extra seat within a State, the High Court has ruled that unless this proportion in the remainder is over 50 per cent there can be no extra seat for that State. This means a reduction in the number of members of the House of Representatives for the next elections, whenever they may be. Unfortunately this ruling affects my own State of South Australia. Where previously we have had 12 members of the House of Representatives, now the number will be reduced to eleven. 
I think it is worth while to get on the record that section 24 of the Constitution states: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of senators. 
The Constitution lays down the formula for deciding how many members of the House of Representatives there shall be from each State. This formula generally works as follows: Firstly, an ascertainment is made of the total population of Australia. This number is then divided by the number of senators twice. This produces a quota to be used to determine the number of House of Representatives seats to which each State is entitled. The population of each State is divided by this quota. Hence there is a situation where the largest States naturally come out with a larger number of representatives in the House of Representatives than do the smaller States. But I should point out that this quota is not the one that is used for the division to break up the States into electorates to come to an allocation of what the quota will be for each of those electorates. 
Over the years- the last redistribution was in 1 968- there have been big changes in many electorates. Many of them have got completely out of balance. It is interesting to see that some electorates, which I shall not mention by name, have increased in electoral roll membership from 49 000 to 90 000. So some electorates have expanded considerably. In fact, some have nearly doubled in population. Others, of course, have reduced in population. This shows the need for redistributions. Electorates get terrifically out of balance. But one can look at the question from another angle and see that whilst there have been changes since 1968 today there are wide differences within electorates. One will find electorates with a little over 50 000 people and other electorates within that same State will have 90 000 people. So one can clearly see that there is need to give consideration to a redistribution. 
Much was said by  Senator Douglas  McClelland about the 10 per cent variation. The Government has looked at this closely and we can see that in the past the distribution commissioners mainly have worked within the area of 10 per cent plus or 10 per cent minus to allow for the movements in population in an electorate between redistributions. Nevertheless, one can still give many examples of some electorates where the commissioners have gone well above the 10 per cent level to reach, as they see it, fair redistribution within the States. Nevertheless, the Government has agreed that it will support the 10 per cent margin and leave it as is. I am happy to see this, but whilst the proposals put forward by the Government are similar to the Australian Labor Party's previous proposals which were mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, there is one difference; this is the provision dealing with the 5000 square kilometre area. I wish to say a little more on that at the end of my speech. Before dealing with that one should look at the guidelines as set down by the commissioners. These are the points that are taken into consideration by commissioners when agreeing on the number of people to be within various electorates: the community of interest within the division, including economic, social and regional interests; the means of communication and travel within the division; the trend of population changes within the State; the physical features of the division; and the existing boundaries of divisions and sub-divisions. 
Of course we have taken another feature into consideration. I refer to this 5000 square kilometres provision to which the Australian Labor Party takes exception. Let us look at some of the figures. As at 3 1 December 1 976 the electorate of Grayndler in Sydney had an enrolment of some 59 900 people and was approximately 22 square kilometres in area. I ask honourable senators to remember what I said. The electorate contains nearly 60 000 people and is 22 square kilometres in area. Another electorate in New South Wales, that of Richmond, has nearly 64 000 electorsthat is more than the electorate of Grayndlerand an area of some 6698 square kilometres. Why should not consideration be given to this variation on 2 bases, namely, that firstly there is a larger number of electors and, secondly, a far greater area which that member of Parliament has to service? 
I turn to the position in my State of South Australia and refer to 2 electorates. One is the seat of Port Adelaide which contains 6 1 600 electors and is 93 square kilometres in area. However, the electorate of Barker which is in the south-east of South Australia contains 67 500 electors- that is 6000 more electors- and an area of 42 108 square kilometres. When we are dealing with non-metropolitan areas such as this, I think there is every justification to give consideration to what has been spelt out very clearly. It is that electorates such as this shall not have a greater number of electors than the smallest electorate within the metropolitan electorates of that State. It is all very well for  Senator Douglas  McClelland and no doubt some of his colleagues who will speak later in the debate, to rise in the Senate and say - 
No. However, honourable senators might say, for example, that no consideration should be given to these nonmetropolitan seats. But I ask them this question quite sincerely: What consideration have they given to the servicing of those vast areas which also can contain a greater number of people. I have heard it said, although I do not entirely agree, that a member of Parliament with a small electorate can ride around his electorate on a push bike before breakfast. While I do not think that many members of Parliament could do that and service their electorates effectively, nevertheless there is a difference when a member of Parliament has an electorate which is compact in size. It is far easier to service that electorate than to service an electorate which covers a big expanse of country and which contains pretty well the same number of people who also expect to be serviced by that member. I think that that is a very valid point. 
We can talk about expansions and developments within some electorates. It is true that we have a 10 per cent plus or 10 per cent minus tolerance as between electorates to take into consideration those factors which I mentioned before. But let us take into consideration also the rights of people living in these bigger electorates. Let us take into consideration the doctrines that are put down by all parties concerning giving encouragement to decentralisation. Decentralisation means moving out into these other areas. Decentralisation also means responsibility of governments and parliaments to make sure that not only do they give encouragement to people to move out into these areas but also that they give service to people who are prepared to move out into these areas. There are big towns and municipalities in many of these nonmetropolitan electorates and these people are as justly entitled as anybody else to recognition and service from their representatives in the Parliament. So I fully support the 5000 square kilometre aspect in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill to which we are giving consideration. I would hope that the members of the Opposition may reconsider their position on this aspect. I feel that this is something of great importance and something to which we should give a lot of weight. 
If it is necessary to take the matter further and go to extremes, I can cite the position that arose in my State of South Australia in the old State electorate of Eyre.  Senator Don  Jessop used to represent a large part of this area when he represented the electorate of Grey in another place before coming to the Senate. The old electorate contained an area of some 5 388 000 square kilometres. This amounted to some 5 1 per cent of the total land mass of my State of South Australia. It had in the vicinity of 10 000 electors. However, under the proposed redistribution in South Australia a situation has arisen in which the electoral division of Eyre will be expanded in size by 500 000 square kilometres to some 850 1 19 000 square kilometres or 86 per cent of the total land mass of South Australia with 15 303 electors. In one of the metropolitan seats in Adelaide there are 16 000 electors in an area marginally over 9 square kilometres. It is all very well for honourable senators to start justifying the criticism put forward by  Senator Douglas  McClelland this afternoon. But I suggest to some of the people who talk like that that they should try living in the outlying areas or try to be the member representing the people living out there. They should try to service such an electorate as effectively as a metropolitan electorate. Quite frankly, I do not think it is possible to service an electorate like that as effectively as somebody who has a much smaller electorate or more compact electorate. I go further to say that even the State Australian Labor Party Government in South Australia evidently agrees with my sentiments. It recognises that this area is so jolly big it is even standing 2 candidates for the next State election for the one area. I think that this backs up the point I am making. 
I again state that I support fully the 5000 square kilometres aspect of the legislation as is proposed by the Government. I support the legislation and the amendments put forward by the Government. I can only say that when this legislation is passed it is then up to the commissioners. I hope that the commissioners, in accepting their responsibilities, will make sure that the redistribution is done on such a basis that when an election is held in the future the party or parties that wins by the greatest majority of voters will also win by the greatest majority of seats in the Houses of Parliament. This is democracy. We are doing our best with this legislation to make sure that democracy works. I hope we will have the full support of the Senate for the proposals put forward by the Government. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, having yesterday informed the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  that I would be doing so. I ask: Will Australia give consideration to initiating a resolution in the United Nations and to seeking the assistance of the African states to condemn publicly the Idi Amin regime and to apply sanctions to Uganda and the Amin regime? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs. What is Australia's attitude to the 200-mile exclusive economic zone for off-shore areas? Does Australia intend to await the results of the Law of the Sea discussions in the United Nations before making any final decision on the 200 nautical miles exclusive economic zone including the 200-mile fishing zone which already has been claimed by both Russia and the United States of America and some other countries? 
I support this amendment because I feel that it will improve the legislation proposed by the Government. I fully support the legislation and wish to make that clear. I am conscious of the fact that consideration is being given to this legislation today as a result of a determination by the Constitutional Convention at which representatives of the 3 tiers of government throughout Australia, irrespective of party affiliations, were present. At the same time I am aware that Australians are sick of too many elections. I felt a lot of concern about certain comments made in the debate yesterday and the day before.  Senator Button  said that he was very pleased that perhaps this legislation would erode some of the powers of the Senate. Last night, after  Senator Chaney  had said that one of the great aspects of the Senate was that it was a States' House with equal representation of the States irrespective of population,  Senator James  McClelland asked: 'Why should that be so'. I am concerned that there is in the legislation a risk that we could be at the whim of an executive which took control. If there is this risk and when one hears the attitudes of the Opposition which is opposed to the Senate, one must express concern as I am doing. 
I feel that it is a good idea to have this provision for a 12 months period between elections because it puts a stay on the executive for those 12 months and gives some protection to the Senate. Whilst I support the concept of simultaneous elections I feel that this provision for a stay of 12 months is a good safety provision and I support the amendment. 
-On behalf of  Senator Jessop  I present six petitions similar in wording from 221, 131, 22, 32, 22, and 22, citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 percent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903 million of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I do so following the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal on the Australian stevedoring industry and in particular, the firm of James Patrick. Has the Minister seen the comment of the Prices Justification Tribunal on the payments of some $700,000 in the form of commission to a governing director of James Patrick,  Sir Reginald  Reid, that: 
It is not our function to comment on either the propriety or the legality of the agreement. 
Due to the concern expressed over the years on the high cost of Australian freight rates, which, incidentally, are the highest in the world, and of which one of the major factors is that of stevedoring, what positive steps is the Minister taking in relation to the revelations of the Prices Justification Tribunal and particularly in the matter of commissions to the governing director of James Patrick? 
I present 5 petitions, similar in wording, from 10, 36, 35, 94 and 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: - 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $S,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petitions received. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Law courts building at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of a statement made by  Mr Dunn,  of the Parliamentary Library, over the Dutch television service on 10 March which implies that his public activities are basically designed to encourage Indonesians to resist the present Government of Indonesia? Secondly, are we to assume that  Mr Dunn  is now a political activist? 
The Senate has many virtues but one of the greatest virtues lies in the fact that it is a debating chamber. Quite frankly I feel that if we get away from that and start reading our speeches the Senate will not remain a debating chamber; it will become a monotonous chamber. I do not object to the concept- I support it- that Ministers should be entitled to read their second reading speeches, as should the Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition shadow Ministry if there is a need to do so. There I draw the line entirely. There are 2 groups of front benchers in this chamber and I can see that the members of both those groups should be entitled, if necessary and if they are so inclined, to read their speeches. Beyond that, no. In another place, as was mentioned tonight by  Senator Cavanagh,  since the introduction of the concession which enables members to read speeches the colour has gone out of that chamber. This debate tonight, I think, provides a good example of what honourable senators can do when they rise and speak on the subject before the Chair and do not read prepared speeches in monotones. 
One can have copious notes. A discretion is vested in the Chair in relation to the use of copious notes. Sometimes the notes are more copious than at other times and sometimes the word copious' could be spelled with a capital C. I see a danger in allowing the reading of speeches in this chamber. The research officers are now doing very much work and are of great assistance to senators and members of Parliament in the providing of facts, figures and background information. There is a danger that if we allow senators to read their speeches, as time goes by the speech of the research officer will be read here by the honourable senator rather than that senator making his or her own speech. This is entirely wrong and it would kill what I think is one of the great aspects of this chamber, which is a debating chamber. I would hate to see the situation arise in which we are allowed to read our speeches. It is interesting to note that even though honourable senators are allowed to refer to copious notes, as times goes on more and more senators are pulling out their reading glasses these days when they make their speeches than was the case in the past. I would hate to see honourable senators continually wearing their glasses in this chamber all the time because they are reading their speeches. 
I have said that it is unfortunate that some honourable senators from both sides of this chamber have to some extent adopted the practice of reading their speeches. Points of order have been taken by some honourable senators and overall there has not been what I consider to be fair play on this matter. I say that quite impartially. It has been unfair of certain senators to take objection or exception to another honourable senator reading his or her speech. I hope that this place will remain as it has been in the past, that is, that the opportunity to use copious notes will remain but that we will never lose the opportunity to stand up and debate the issue before us rather than read a speech prepared weeks before and read it in a dull monotonous voice as happens in some chambers. I would hate to see this happen in the Senate chamber. I strongly support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee that we support what has happened in the past, that is, that this will be a debating chamber and we will not be able to read our speeches, but with discretion of the Chair will be able to make use of copious notes. 
I present the following petition from 143 citizens, mainly from the southeast of South Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $S,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government Funds to roads over the five years ending 1 980-8 1 , of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Science aware that there is a growing demand for the use of satellite resources photo-imagery which could be of vital assistance to the community by ready access to the land satellite facilities that we have? Is the Minister aware that some State governments would like the information to assist in planning crop production, forest research and other matters such as fire and flood management? What is the current position in relation to these facilities? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen recent Press reports that there is uncertainty in the business community as to whether applications for overseas borrowings for the development of new projects and the expansion of industry, including the purchase of plant and equipment in the mining and manufacturing industries, are eligible for exemption from the variable deposit ratio scheme? Will the Minister state what are the clearly defined guidelines setting out what areas of mining and manufacturing are exempted and what criteria are being used to determine whether an overseas borrowing qualifies for such exemption? 
The Address-in-Reply debate has always been very important in this chamber but perhaps it has never been more so because of the great significance that on this occasion we are replying to the Speech given by  Her  Majesty the Queen when she graced us with her presence last week at the opening of the Parliament. It is also of great significance that she visited us in the twentyfifth year of her reign as the monarch. During that time she has shown herself to be an outstanding personality who has adapted to change and who has seen change. She has seen the old British Empire become known as the British Commonwealth of Nations and has seen many of the old colonies gain independence. Coupled with that is the fact that we in this country have also recognised the Queen as the Queen of Australia. This was the first occasion that we had the Queen of Australia herself gracing this Senate and opening this Parliament. 
Many changes have taken place since the time of the old Empire, which is today known as the British Commonwealth of Nations. Many countries which have gained independence have still maintained a Westminster parliamentary system. In the last few weeks one had heard a lot of comment, because of the visit of  Her  Majesty, on whether we should be looking to a presidential or republican system within Australia. I support the Westminster system of parliament, and I am certain the great majority of people in this country agree with me, and I hope they will continue to do so. The Westminster system has stood the test of time. It has been through its rough times. Whilst it has faults I have yet to see a better institution than the Westminster system of parliament which we have in Australia. I hope that the system will continue. 
I join other honourable senators congratulating  Senator Lewis  who had the honour of moving the Address-in-Reply on this occasion. It was also his maiden speech. I commend him for the quality of his speech which he presented to the Senate, for the manner in which he has entered the life of parliament and the way in which he is going about his responsibilities. I am encouraged and impressed by what I have seen of him. I am certain that as time goes on he will make a great contribution not just to his Party but to the Senate. I am also sure that, with the quality so far shown by  Senator Lewis,  one of these days he would have come into the Senate chamber in any event. It is a tragedy that it was the death of  Senator Ivor  Greenwood which made it possible for  Senator Lewis  to enter the Parliament. I was a very close friend of the late Ivor Greenwood and I wish to say that I respected him as being one of the finest men I have ever known. He was dedicated to his job, full of energy, full of ability, and with a total honesty. It is a tragedy that at a very young age he was taken from us. No doubt one could say quite honestly that he made a sacrifice, because I feel sure that it was over-work caused by his dedication which brought his life to an early end. It was a tragedy for this place and for the country that a man of such ability was taken from Australia so soon. 
Much has been said about the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. I wish to quote 2 areas of that address.  Her  Majesty said: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern; commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
The commitment of my Government to these goals stems from the conviction that the progress of Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. 
Australia has experienced economic difficulties in recent years; my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
In response to that part of the address, I wish to say that this Government inherited a very bad economic situation. I am not going back over what happened with previous governments, and I use the plural, because as far as I am concerned those days are pretty well gone. But nobody could deny the fact that we did inherit great economic problems. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made that perfectly clear during the election campaign when he said that it would be a long hard struggle and a lot of slogging, and that it could take up to 3 years, before we saw what we would consider to be good economic recovery in Australia. That is a statement about which we should continually remind people. It is not a case of playing politics; it is a case of stating clearly what the Prime Minister saw the situation to be during the election campaign. Whilst a recovery has been taking place, there are still criticisms and concerns. Some people no doubt expected a Father Christmas exercise almost immediately after the election. I repeat that people were never promised that. They were promised that the Government might have to do some unpopular things, that it could take up to 3 years to get economic recovery. 
One of the problems we face is unemployment. The problem is not just one of numbers; it is a problem of people. One sees and will continue to see varying figures, and I hope that in the not too distant future we will get down to some more concrete and precise figures than those we have been given over the last two or three months. One hears much about the actual fact of unemployment, why some people are working and some are not, that many situations vacant are advertised in the Press and are continually left vacant because people do not want the jobs. One hears those stories. One speaks to people and learns at first hand that on many occasions it is a fact of life, and that does create great problems. One could also give examples very close to home, in one's own area and amongst one's own associates, of people who have not been able to get the job they want but who have been prepared to go out and get some other type of employment. That sort of thing is happening. There are also occasions where a surplus of applications are received for a particular vacancy. I refer to a statement in the Adelaide  Advertiser on  3 March this year that the metropolitan abattoir, known as SAMCOR, had advertised 360-odd jobs and about 1 100 people had applied for the vacancies. 
On the same page of the same paper appeared a statement that the Broken Hill Pty Company at Whyalla had been unable to fill vacancies which had been advertised not for days but for weeks and in some cases for months. The article states: 
BHP's Whyalla steelworks is continuing its recruiting drive for labor in other States. 
I emphasise that the drive was in other States. The article went on to state that despite the ready availability of work and housing BHP was unable to get applications for jobs and that it had recruited some 72 employees from Tasmania in one week in January. The company provides furnished or unfurnished homes, whichever people want, and good wages and conditions; yet it sought applications from other States and received them from as far away as Tasmania. It will repeat the exercise to try to get people from Tasmania to come and work at Whyalla. That is one of the farcical situations we are witnessing at the present time. 
Having said that, I should also say that the Commonwealth Employment Service has a terrific task in giving assistance to those people who are genuinely desirous of getting employment. I am pleased to see that it has been announced in the last few days that the CES is now recruiting a further 300 people. 
Let us not go into the criticism. It has been done; that is the main thing. There has been some criticism of the CES. Many young people today regard the CES as purely a place where they go to pick up their payments. 
Young people regard it as being that son of place and that is what they do. Let me go one step further and say that I have first hand evidence of my own son, who did years of study and was unable to get a job for quite some time and who has been driving a truck. There is nothing wrong with driving a truck, but he had educated himself to do other things and could not get a job with the skill he wanted and he was prepared to do that. When he went to the CES, along with many of his friends- there are many people like this- the first thing they were told was: 'Fill in this form and we will give you unemployment benefits'. The first question that should have been asked is: 'What type of work are you looking for? What are you prepared to do?' I am not blaming the CES totally, but there are certainly people within it who are not approaching their jobs and their responsibilities in the right way. That is a fact of life, and I have first hand evidence of it. 
Turning to the Jordan report, an inquiry was made in 1 973 and the report made constructive criticism about what should happen in a restructuring of the CES. It did not criticise individuals or personalities. I hope that the current Norgard inquiry will come up with something, because the most important need is to give assistance to people who want employment, and that should be the full function of the CES. As I said before, I am concerned not just about the unemployment numbers but about the effects of unemployment on people who are unable to get jobs. Unemployment is having an adverse affect upon many. Whether we like it or not and whether we agree or not, many people at the present time do not want to work. They are happy to adopt the 'Big Brother' attitude and to say: 'I'm all right, Jack . They are prepared to bludge on the community and on their mates, because the taxes paid by their mates are paying them. That is happening; it is a fact of life. If we are honest with ourselves we will acknowledge that this is happening. 
Overlooking the fact that some people do not want to work, unfortunately some people are getting into bad habits and have decided that being unemployed is an easy way out. They are saying: 'Okay, the welfare state concept will do me; it is good-oh'. They believe that the world owes them a living and they will carry on believing that. Bad habits grow on people. But we also have the problem of boredom which particularly is affecting so many of the younger people. A survey that was undertaken in South Australia by the South Australian Government a short time ago showed very clearly that the crime rate of younger unemployed people had increased dramatically. This is one of the problems that we are facing. One could mention further problems. I commend the Government for the new program it has introduced for the younger people, that is, the community youth scheme, which will keep younger people occupied and give them some responsibilities within the community. It is a very good scheme as it will fill the interim period until such time as these young people obtain employment. 
As I said earlier, some people have spent years to educate themselves for certain occupations but are unable to get the jobs they want. This would be disappointing enough, but there is greater frustration when they cannot get any work at all. People are frustrated also when they are interviewed for a job and are asked what experience they have had. They have been unemployed, so what experience can they have until they have been employed? The younger people face all these problems and frustrations, as do many of the older people who are out of work. I agree that there are problems. But I think one of the greatest problems of all is the fact that many people, particularly senior people, today feel branded with the stigma of 'dole bludger'. I do not like the term 'dole bludger', but let us be honest, there are dole bludgers about- we agreed earlier that that was the case. But I should like to see, if possible, some separation between dole bludgers and the genuinely unemployed. This comes to the crux of the whole matter. I hope that we can evolve some system within our society whereby the 'fair dinkums' can be separated from the 'bludgers' because at the present time they are lumped together and painted with the same brush. That is one of the tragedies of the current situation. I do not know how we can go about this, but I hope that this problem can be resolved. I support also the need for sufficient financial assistance being provided to those people who genuinely are out of work. 
I said earlier that the Government has set out sound economic policies. Today we are seeing those policies working. We are seeing them working in the areas of inflation, investment and so many others. But Government policies alone will not bring about a full recovery in this country. They will not solve the problems. It will take far more than that to do so. It will take an effort and a contribution from each and every one of us within this country. Until such time as we as individuals are prepared to play our part the problems will not be solved. It is no good our sitting back and saying, 'Leave it to the Government'. We only have to look at what is happening in the United Kingdom to see that such an attitude does not work. Whenever one speaks to anybody over there the common reaction is: 'The Government should do something about that; it should change its policies'. The Government in the United Kingdom has been changing its policies and doing all sorts of things. It is a country with courage second to none, with a Dunkirk history, which proves its moral fibre. 
From what I can gather, it does not have bad cricketers at the present time either. Nevertheless, England is going downhill economically because all of its people are looking to the government to fix up the country's problems. They have overlooked one thing, that is, that they as individuals are part of the country and they should be helping to fix up the problems. We in Australia have to start thinking very seriously about that. I am not having a shot at the trade unions or the workers in the blue collar field or anyone else. I am just making a broad statement that we, as members of the community, have to play our part. 
We were developing our export trade, but unfortunately today and over the past 2 or 3 years rather than seeing our export trade developing we have seen the reverse occurring; we have seen the export of some of our industries, which is a tragedy for this country. This is occurring because of our internal cost structures. I shall quote from an article which I saw in the Australian as recently as Monday, 14 March. I shall not mention the company involved, but the article read as follows: 
But last week the unthinkable happened. The company . . . now part of - 
The article mentioned another big company-  announced that a new plant was to be built, not in Australia, but the Philippines. 
Why? To make profits and to preserve jobs-for Australians. 
For the money made by the off-shore - 
The article referred to the development of an industry-  will be used to subsidise the company's two Australian plants and maintain staffing levels. 
Instead of that company expanding within Australia it is going overseas. One knows of numerous examples of this happening because of the cold, hard economic facts of life. The reason for this is that our productivity is down compared with other countries. So many other factors are involved once one starts comparing the production costs of other countries and Australia. I should like to mention a few productivity figures of a few countries. Unfortunately I do not have figures for 1976 but I shall state the figures for 1974 and 1975. In 1974 we find that in the United States of America there was a downturn in productivity of 3.65 per cent but their inflation was running at 1 1 per cent. Productivity in the United Kingdom increased by 0.30 per cent but their inflation was running at 16 per cent. In Japan there was a downturn of productivity of 0.33 per cent but their inflation was running at the high rate of nearly 23.5 per cent. In West Germany there was a plus in productivity of 2.57 per cent, with inflation of 7 per cent, whilst Australia for that year had a productivity level of minus 3.56 per cent, with an inflation rate of something like 16 per cent. 
Following through to the figures for 1975, we find that productivity in Japan was pretty well static and its inflation rate is way down to 11.9 per cent. In Germany there was virtually no change in productivity and its inflation rate was down. Productivity in Australia was still about 0.5 per cent down with inflation running at 14 per cent. That is not a healthy record. But if we go further and relate these figures to the changes in the hourly wage rates in manufacturing between 1972 and 1976 we find that in that period in the United States of America there was an increase of nearly 39 per cent in that rate; in Japan a 53 per cent increase; in Germany a 43 per cent increase; in the United Kingdom an increase of 109.5 per cent; and in Australia an increase of 100.6 per cent. In that period Australia had one of the biggest increases in hourly wage rates of any major producing country. When we couple that with our productivity, in which we had not the poorest but one of the poorer records, we can see clearly why there has been a downturn in the development of industry. We are competing with overseas countries. 
Let us consider the strikes and industrial problems in Australia. I have figures on the number of days lost per 1000 people employed in 1974 and 1975. Because of the time factor I will take only 1975. Unfortunately, I have no figures for the United States of America. In Japan 400 days were lost per 1000 people employed; in Germany, 10 days; in the United Kingdom, 540 days- that surprised me; and in Australia 1390 days. The number of working days lost in 1976 was 3.8 million. The average number of working days lost per worker was 2.6. The estimated loss in wages was approximately $1 18.6m. That was in wages alone. If we compare the number of disputes in the 9 months to September 1 976-with the number in the same period in 1975 we find that there was a downturn. The number of disputes was down by 19 per cent. The number of days lost rose by 13W per cent and the estimated loss in wages rose by nearly 381 per cent. These are the things that concern me. 
I have given these figures purely to show the comparisons between the situation in Australia and that in some of our trading competitors. I say competitors' rather than 'partners'. I have not given them to level criticism at trade unionists in particular, with the exception of some of the radical trade union leaders in this country who have encouraged and created disruptions. We must look to see whether there are reasons for the present situation. I refer to absenteeism. According to  Manufacturers Monthly  of 15 February this year, the average absentee rate in Australia is 12 days per annum. Throughout Australia this amounts to approximately 70 million working days per annum, at an estimated cost to industry of $2.768m. When one starts totting up the costs one can see what an adverse effect this is having upon the internal cost structures of industry in Australia. Coupled with this is the problem of job turnover. These facts show that there are excessive costs because of the problems of industrial unrest, a lack of productivity, the wages race that has gone on for quite some time and absenteeism. I repeat that I am not laying the blame in one area in particular. We have to look for reasons for these problems. 
What are the reasons? How many of these problems might be due to the worker's attitude to his work and to the monotony of working- on a mass production line, particularly an assembly line where identical pieces are going past hour by hour, day by day? Are those problems due to general working conditions themselves? What effect is high taxation having upon the lack of incentive? Many people will not work overtimewhich has its effect- but they will take a day off. This adds to the absentee problem. One can relate this problem to the attitude that taxation is too high. Are unemployment benefits too high? The man who stays at home all day on unemployment benefits, even with a wife and family but with the odd moonlighting job round the corner, may be better off than the man who goes to work every day. We must give serious consideration to all these matters. 
I was very pleased to see that the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  was reported in the  Advertiser  of 1 4 March this year as follows: 
Absenteeism and job turnover were responsible for a greater productivity loss than were industrial disputes. 
Both could be reduced when industry recognised that they resulted from boring work or unsafe and unhealthy working environments. 
Australian companies were beginning to recognise that their first obligation was to their employees. 

 Mr Macphee went on to point out that not all the blame for all the problems lies with one section of the work force. He said that management itself also must have a closer look to see what can be done to encourage greater efficiency and productivity, because management also has its responsibilities. I think we all have a collective responsibility, as citizens of this country, to see what we can do to assist in getting the economy moving again. 
Frankly, I think that in endeavouring to revive the economy we also must revive the old spirit of Australianism on which this country was developed by its pioneers. Unfortunately, for quite some time there has been a tendency for all of us to try to get as much as we possibly can for as little effort or input as we can give. The mercenary attitude has been predominant, rather than what one could call the national attitude. Yet the old spirit is still lying within a great part of this community. One sees wonderful charitable efforts by so many people within our community. I am one who has been critical in this chamber of certain shop stewards in certain industries because of their conduct; but I was delighted a few weeks ago to see a report, again in South Australia, of a group of shop stewards at the General Motors-Holden's Ltd plant at Elizabeth who, within the short space of a couple of days, raised a few thousand dollars to send the child of one of their workmates to New Zealand because they felt that a specialist there could bring her back to full health. That is the sort of spirit which exists, but it is latent. We need to spread that spirit and to get it running through our community. 
We must look at the country from a national point of view rather than from a mercenary or parochial point of view. The spirit is there. These men have proved it. But we have to show more of it and use it more broadly throughout our community. When this is done we will see progress in this country. The Government alone cannot do this. No government can do this by policies. We all have a responsibility, not just the Government. I should like to see the Government, the unions and management sit down together and have real talks-not just to score points off each other- and see what can be done to get this country moving again. They should sit down in an earnest endeavour to see how they can improve each other's lot and make their contribution in the one direction of prosperity for this country which, of course will, bring prosperity to the people within the country. That is what Government is all about. That is what our efforts should be all about, to make sure that we can overcome the problems in Australia and return to the situation which prevailed not many years ago. Unless we all pull our weight it will be a longer and harder struggle than the Prime Minister said it would be in the election campaign. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen a report by Onkaparinga Textiles Ltd of South Australia expressing concern over the very high level of imported blankets from New Zealand last year? Is the Minister aware that Onkaparinga Textiles in South Australia is very concerned about the possible flood of imported New Zealand blankets again this year which could have serious financial repercussions on this long-established Australian industry? Has the Minister seen reports that Onkaparinga Textiles had a 53 per cent larger loss in the first half of 1976-77? Will the Minister make inquiries to see what steps can be taken so that such an old-established company as Onkaparinga Textiles will not be sent out of business as a result of a flood of imports from New Zealand under the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement? 
This debate on foreign affairs this afternoon and tonight is the first debate on foreign affairs that has taken place in this chamber for a long while. I must say that I have been delighted by the types of speeches that have been made on both sides of the chamber. The debate has brought in far more logic than emotion and far more variation in the specific points and sometimes criticisms of the current Government's policy than has been the case in many other debates. To some extent I accept the attitudes of and points made by some members of the Opposition. There are many points that I do not accept. I have been in this place for a number of years but, frankly, this is the first time that I have heard a full-scale debate on foreign affairs. I appreciate this debate. It was excellent to hear the attitudes expressed and the contributions made by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. This resulted from the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  put down an excellent ministerial statement on foreign affairs, the first full statement on this subject that we have had in this place for many years. I think the Minister is to be commended for that statement. Not only is it a sound, realistic and practical statement but it also relates to the total global aspect of foreign affairs rather than just a regional aspect. This is very important. 
There has been a need in this place for a long time not just for a debate but also for a full ministerial statement on Australia's attitude and its stance generally towards foreign affairs to show clearly where Australia stands in the world today in its attitudes. I shall pass one critical comment on the previous  speaker, Senator Primmer,  who, unfortunately, in the initial stages of his speech made a couple of rather cynical and critical remarks. They may not have been meant that way but they appeared that way. I refer to his derogatory remarks about the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock.  He more or less implied that the Minister is the little fellow running behind the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I refute that statement. I feel that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been accepted not just by his Party but also by the people of this country for his initiatives and realistic approach to the sensitive area of foreign affairs. With due respect I remind  Senator Primmer  that the previous Prime Minister of this country- I am not being critical in saying this- took a keen and leading interest in foreign affairs. Prime Ministers also have a part to play but I do not accept the comment passed tonight with regard to  Mr Peacock.  I think that he has brought some refreshing ideas and vigour into this important, sensitive area of foreign affairs. 
There is a need for this at present. There is a need for Australia to make clear its stance. With so many problems throughout the world, each year, each day, we hope that we will see a change in attitudes. But wherever we look today we see tragedy and conflicts. One has only to look to Africa to see the problems, the tragedies and the inhumanities of man towards man which are taking place there. They are not conflicts of black against white or white against black. In many cases they are conflicts of black against black. Some of the tragedies are taking place because of the dictatorial attitude- power without glory if I can put it this way- of man against his fellow man. There is the problem of the insurgency in Thailand. These problems occur in many other places but particularly in the area of South East Asia. There are the tragedies of the refugees and the genocide which has taken place and which is still taking place in Cambodia. There are the tragedies in Laos. Perhaps these are hangovers from the Vietnam War but, nevertheless, they are tragedies of man against man and the disrespect for humanity in the world. I am taking up the point that  Senator Wheeldon  made extremely well in his contribution to the debate this afternoon. One can go further. There are the tragedies in the Middle East with regard to the refugee problem in Lebanon. People have been put out of their own country. They are not game to live in their own country. They have moved out for refuge and they are living in a state of isolation and destitution at present looking for security in some country where they can lead their normal lives in peace and hope for future prosperity. 
An arms race is going on throughout the world. The competition within this arms race is feared. One wonders where it will finish. This is still happening between the major powers. There are tensions between Russia and China, 2 major powers. No doubt many honourable senators in this chamber have heard the comment that perhaps the world is lucky that Russia and China today do not see eye to eye; that it could be the saving grace ofthe world. That may be so in one respect. But when we look at the competition which has taken place, the power seeking of these 2 major powers, the events in South East Asia and in so many of the African states, we question how much validity there is in that argument. What would be the situation if Russia and China were united as a joint force? How much danger would there be in the world from what would then be the major super powers? Perhaps they could dominate the world. Whichever way one looks at the situation, there is tension throughout the world. 
The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries introduced a new system of diplomacy. I refer to resources diplomacy. Problems were created with the energy crisis not so long ago when the Arab countries raised the prices of oil and virtually caused a shortage of supply around the world. This was where resources diplomacy really crept in. The effect of the tensions within the Middle East which we have seen over many years is still continuing. One wonders where that will finish. Wherever one looks one finds that there are tensions, problems and tragedies hitting the individual person in various societies. One would hope that as time goes on there may be more sanity within our globe and that man will show more respect to man. Perhaps there will not be the need for countries to arm themselves continually against each other in fear that if they do not arm themselves they will be taken over by some other country which in the interim period has gained far more power than they have done. There have also been changes in the United States of America, one of the superpowers of the world. We saw  President  Carter come to power. I shall quote from the policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It reads: 
I turn now to our relations with the United States. The first thing to be said about them is that the uncertainty about the future course of Australian policy, the doubts, reservations and acrimony which were so much a feature of the previous Government's dealings with the United States, have been removed. We pursue Australia 's interests, express our disagreement with American policy where it exists, but the fundamental importance attached to the alliance and the general relationship are no longer in question. 
I mention this because  Senator Wriedt  in his speech in the Senate this afternoon took up this point in  Mr Peacock's  statement. He expressed concern that  Mr Peacock  should make such a reference. He said that relationships between the United States and Australia had never really changed and that they have not changed now. Many honourable senators opposite may think that but, unfortunately, certain senior members of the Labor Party saw the need to pass derogatory remarks about certain senior people and leaders within the United States of America. From talking to Americans who visited Australia, I found that there was concern not only by the Americans themselves but also by many Australians that there could be changes in attitudes between America and Australia. America has been both praised and criticised for many things. We recognise that the U.S.A. is one of the major powers of the world. It also has been one of the most generous nations and has made vast contributions to many countries, not only developing countries but war torn countries in the early post-war years. The United States has done so much in so many ways and, as is often the case, there is very little recognition of it and very little appreciation. Granted, America is rich in resources but we as a nation, small though we be in terms of population, are particularly fortunate to have the great amount of resources that we have. 
As time goes on there is no doubt that there will be an ever increasing demand for Australia to play a more important role in this resource hungry world. By working with the United States of America perhaps we can play an ever increasing role in this very important area. I refer again to the statement by the Minister where he referred to the resources that Australia has. He referred to Australia's role as a food producer and said that our energy resources, our vast mineral resources and our position as a trading nation are bound to enhance our importance. He continued and said: 
This in turn will mean not only that our bargaining power will increase, but that we will almost certainly be subjected to more demands and pressures . . . 
That is perfectly so. One would expect that we, as a nation with those advantages, will continue to play our part as we have in the past, or perhaps play a bigger role than in the past, as we develop far more capabilities and work for the long term future. 
Referring to earlier times, prior to 1935 Australia looked predominantly towards the United Kingdom and virtually regarded herself as a child of the mother country. It was during the crisis of the 1939-1945 war that we turned to America for assistance and since that time there has been a close alliance between Australia and the U.S.A. Some people have been critical of the fact that within that alliance we tended again to trot along like the little dog behind the giant United States. I do not accept that this has been so for quite some time. It may have appeared to be so in an earlier period. We know, and the Minister made it perfectly clear in his statement to the Parliament, that Australia will have independent attitudes in respect of international relationships. Nevertheless we as a country will have a far greater security by having an American alliance. I hope we continue to have that alliance with the United States. I do not say that in a purely selfish or parochial way; I say it because such a thing will have a great bearing on the region in which Australia exists because Australia's security will also have a big influence on its near neighbours. I refer particularly to the countries which make up the Association of South East Asian Nations, to Indonesia, Malaysia and up through the Philippines. Perhaps we can also include New Zealand. Our security will have a big bearing upon the security of this region and those countries. 
I wish to turn now to the Indian Ocean which has been mentioned quite a lot in this discussion.  Senator Primmer  was very critical of this Government's approach to the Indian Ocean and in particular to the American base at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. I support any moves we can make to lessen tension not only in the Indian Ocean but anywhere in the world. I support the moves, as does the Minister and the Government, to lessen tension in this area and eventually finish up with a zone of peace but 1 would not support any move to ask the United 
States to abandon its base in Diego Garcia while Russia is still building up its strength in Berbera. I hope that as time goes on we can see a reduction in this arms race. I sincerely hope that that will be the case. But I would not support any move to have the Americans abandon Diego Garcia whilst the Russians still have their base in that area. In theory it is an excellent idea to support the initiatives to lower the arms race in this area but in reality such a move could be accepted as appeasement and appeasement has never operated successfully because the end result is that there is one dominant power. Having one dominant power is the one thing we must avoid at all costs in the Indian Ocean. I support any moves we can make, as the Prime Minister stated, to reduce the competition of the arms build up and the power race in the Indian Ocean. The Prime Minister and  Mr Peacock  have made it perfectly clear that they hope to continue to see a balance in the Indian Ocean but to reduce the balance to a very low level. 
I want to refer again to the Association of South East Asian Nations which takes in 5 countries in South East Asia- Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. Those countries got together not so many years ago to see what could be done to develop a better understanding and to develop regional and economic security. It has been amazing to see the development, the respect and the understanding that has taken place in this group of countries. They have seen what has happened with the European Economic Community in the European sector and look to that type of thing as their ideal. These are all developing countries which are fearful of outside influences. They are fearful that there could be some dominant great power rivalry within their region. They have worked together and are working together in many ways to develop their areas, to develop the security of their areas for the betterment of their people. They also look to Australia for support. 
I was pleased to see the Minister give not only verbal support in his statement to the nations within the ASEAN group. He also mentioned practical things such as the development of the economies of those countries and the development of trade between them and Australia. This is good to see even though the Minister said that there will be limitations because of the economic situation within Australia at present. However the ideals are there and the practical approach is apparent. This is what the countries have been looking for. They are hungry for money for investment in order to help develop their countries. If we can help them develop economically and socially, in so many ways, such as an exchange of cultural activities between our countries as well as in trade, it will augur well for the security of the area. I commend the Minister and the Government for the realistic approach in this area. 
The Minister made great reference to Japan, a country which has developed to become one of the major trading countries, not just on a regional basis but on a world basis. Today Japan has a big economic influence on a global basis. I am glad that this Government has followed up the work done by the previous Government with regard to negotiations, trade and understanding with Japan. It has placed far more emphasis upon the area than did the previous Government. This is illustrated by the fact that 4 Ministers went to Japan earlier this year to have broad discussions in so many areas. The discussions covered not only cultural but also economic aspects and trade developments between our countries. All these moves are excellent. I think that the amount of progress we have made this year is extremely good. One hopes that it will continue. 
As I said earlier, Japan is a very important country. Today it is a very influential country. Geographically, Japan sits at the top end of our area while Australia sits at the bottom. There can be beneficial effects in a flow-on in this important region of the world which, not long ago, was overlooked because of the dominance of Europe and of so many areas. Today it is accepted that this area is one of great potential even though there has been and will continue to be economic instability because so many of these countries are still developing. It will be up to countries like Australia, Japan and the United States of America to do all they can to assist in the further development of nations in this very important region. 
I turn to China, another important country, and one to which, for years, we as a nation gave no recognition. I commend the Whitlam Government as the government which initiated the moves to recognise China. I go further and say that I was very pleased to see that both the Prime Minister and  Mr Peacock,  early in government, made a point of going to China and having discussions with its leaders. So what was initiated by a previous government was continued, perhaps at a faster rate. While the ideologies between the 2 countries may be different in so many ways, one thing has been proven throughout the history of the world and that is that nothing has ever been achieved by turning one's back on people. It is far better to talk with people and to trade with them. From that one gains respect and a better understanding. If we continue to have a better understanding between peoples we have a greater chance of having peace in the world. The Minister, with regard to the various aspects of China's situation and Australia's attitude towards some of the ideologies of China, has made the matter perfectly clear. In relation to the developments with China he stated: 
There are . . . points it is necessary to make about our relations with China. The first is that our concern with improving relations has in no way inhibited us from taking up matters on which we disagree. In the Peking talks it was apparent that these include such important questions as nuclear proliferation and testing, our respective positions on the Middle East conflict, and the question of support for insurgency, particularly in South East Asia. These are anything but trivial matters and there has been no attempt to minimise the significance of the differences over them. On the question of support for insurgency, in their talks with the Prime Minister the Chinese leaders used a formula which in the view of  Dr Stephen  FitzGerald, our then Ambassador in Peking, was significantly different from ones they had previously used. But what is important ultimately- and it is very importantis what happens on the ground. We shall be watching with close interest for evidence of changes in levels of activity and degrees of support. 
So while we show respect to China and while we continue to do so, the Minister has made it clear that we do not agree with all that China does. No doubt China does not agree with all that Australia does but the main thing is that we continue to talk, to respect each other and to trade together. I hope, as  Senator Scott  said this afternoon, that we will continue to give more aid with the development of agriculture in China. This is the sort of assistance and understanding which can only bring great benefit to both countries, and ultimately, as this assistance spreads further, it will benefit so many other countries. One hopes that as time goes on more and more peoples and nations will see fit to talk to each other and to try to help each other rather than having the tragedies which we have seen because, for too long, there has been an attempt to dominate and, in the process of domination, to hurt each other. 
I briefly mention Papua New Guinea which is now a very close neighbour. For so long Papua New Guinea was dependent upon Australia and today is an independent nation. It is a nation full of potential. As a nation I think it has done a remarkable job when one considers that it is not very many years since its people were still in the primitive state. Many of them are still in a very primitive state. But today many of its people have moved out. They are sophisticated and articulate. As I have said, New Guinea is a country with great potential. It has wonderful people who, if given the chance, will certainly make a success of their country. Since being in Parliament I have spent quite a bit of time visiting Papua New Guinea. I think the people are some of the nicest, friendliest, most energetic and intelligent one could ever wish to meet. One hopes that we as a nation will continue to give support to Papua New Guinea because, as an emerging nation, it will have many troubles and traumas. It will look to us for assistance. I hope that we will continue to give assistance to Papua New Guinea because, as far as I am concerned, such assistance is well worth giving and it will show rewards in times to come when Papua New Guinea will emerge with its potential and with the kinds of people it has, into a good and great little nation. 
Before my time expires I wish to make some reference to the law of the sea about which discussions have gone on for many years in the United Nations. The discussions have been highly contentious and no doubt they will continue to be for a long time. There are many problems with regard to resolving the situation of the law of the sea because some countries have already claimed jurisdiction over the 200-mile limit from their coast. This gives them 200 miles of economic zone. But in this area we have other problems with the international regional seabed beyond the limits of these areas of national jurisdiction. With the Third World and many other countries there is still a lack of any understanding. One wonders how much longer it will take in discussion at the United Nations before the situation is resolved. Australia is one of the major coastal states in the world and has played a very important part in discussions on the law of the sea at the United Nations. We have been fortunate to have had some excellent representatives who have been recognised as having played a leading role in those discussions. I am aware of the comments by the Minister that we, as a country, have played such an important part. As a coastal state, this matter affects us. But we will not do anything which could upset reaching some final agreement and understanding on the aspect of the law of the sea. 
Quite frankly, I feel it is necessary for us soon to make a clear decision as to where we are going in relation to the law of the sea and whether we will lay claim to our 200 miles of the economic zone. I think it is necessary that we do this and 1 hope that we will do it. I hope that we will lay claim to the 200 miles because we have great potential in many of our off-shore areas. 1 hope we will do what so many other countries, including the United States of America and Russia, have already done, and that is to lay claim to the 200 miles. But that brings with it responsibilities and problems. Firstly, we have to look to the development of our resources in that area. We cannot let them sit there in a static situation. We have to look at the aspect of resource sharing. We have to look at where the lines of demarcation will finish with our bordering nations. We have to look at the surveillance in the area to which we have laid claim. So many responsibilities go along with the claim. I repeat that I hope that Australia will soon make up its mind as to where we go in what I consider is a very important area. With advances in technology, off-shore areas can play a very important part in assisting the development of this great nation. 
Finally, 1 hope that all nations as time goes by will play in international affairs perhaps not a bigger role than they are playing today but a more responsible role than they have played in the past and will not overlook the fact that, while power politics might be very important, the most important overall factor is man himself. I hope that more prominence will be given to the inhumanities that have taken place in preceding years and generations and that more respect will be paid irrespective of race, colour or creed by man for his fellow man. I have much pleasure in supporting the Minister's statement. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Are waterside workers who are retired under the redundancy plan, and as a consequence receive lump sum payments, entitled to unemployment benefits or do they have to wait until they qualify for age pensions before receiving any extra social service benefits? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and refer to the Australian visit of a specialised plane from the United States of America. I ask the Minister: Has the Department of Science any interest in the mission of this airborne observatory, which the American National Aeronautics and Space Administration has in Australia, and would the type of research which such a laboratory can carry out be of any practical use to the Australian community? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Are Press reports correct that the South Australian Government has made a request to the Federal Government for financial assistance to establish a petrochemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia? Can the Minister state what companies and financial structure will be involved in the proposed establishment at Redcliff? What is the estimated cost and how much Federal aid is sought? Has the Minister seen the results of any feasibility and environmental studies in relation to the proposed project? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen reports that a mechanical device has been developed in the United States of America which can be fitted to a petrol driven motor and which it is claimed will greatly increase efficiency? If the reports are correct, does such a device give great benefits in fuel consumption to motor vehicles? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refer to the practice in the Commonwealth Public Service of advertising and inviting applications to fill vacancies in the Public Service. Can the Minister state whether all such advertisements are genuine or do some advertisements merely comply with the law that all vacancies must be publicly advertised, even though on some occasions such vacancies are already filled? If the latter proposition is true, will the Minister take steps to stop the practice, which may be considered to be both unfair and frustrating to applicants, especially young people who generally apply for such positions? 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he has seen Press reports that the Premier of New South Wales has made a grant of $ 1.08m to Sydney University for further research into solar energy and that the New South Wales Government is to get some 50 per cent of any revenue resulting from such research. Are these reports correct? If so, can the Minister state the position regarding Commonwealth Government funding? Does the arrangement of the New South Wales Government leave the way open for the Federal Government to make similar arrangements in relation to Federal funding of the project? Can the Minister state whether the 50 per cent arrangements by the New South Wales Government also include the matter of control and whether the 50 per cent is 50 per cent plus or 50 per cent minus in relation to such control? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: With the continuing oil tanker drivers' strike in Victoria and the continued seamen's ban on oil tankers berthing at Port Stanvac in South Australia for the discharging of crude oil for the South Australian refinery, are reports correct that indicate that less than 14 days' petrol supplies are held now in South Australia? If the strike or ban in South Australia continues and endangers the functioning of essential services as well as affecting adversely the jobs of innocent and conscientious workers, will the Government declare a state of emergency to make sure that crude oil will be delivered to the refinery so that the welfare of innocent people will not be placed in jeopardy by a few radicals who seem to have no concern for either the welfare of the community or the economy generally? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. In view of the decline in Australia 's self sufficiency in crude oil and the eventual need for greater dependence on imported crude, is Australia eligible to become a member of the International Energy Agency of which 17 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and Germany are already members? If Australia is unable to become a member, will it work closely with this agency which is concerned with developing alternative economic energy supplies and instituting a concerted program of energy conservation which could give leadership to the world in overcoming the frightening consequences of a widening energy gap which is closer than many people realise? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. With the striking of the Queen's Jubilee Medal, will all personnel within the Australian armed Services receive such a medal? If not, what sections of the Services will receive such a medal? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it not a fact that military decorations given by the United States of America and by former South Vietnam to Australian servicemen while on active duty in the Vietnam war are not to be worn officially by the recipients? As these decorations were won by Australian servicemen on active service for their country, will the Minister give consideration to reversing this policy? 
This afternoon the Senate has been debating an issue raised by the Opposition about the lack of presentation of a White Paper on manufacturing industry by the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  I was surprised that the Opposition bothered to take up such an issue. I was also surprised at much of the socalled logical argument which the Opposition propounded this afternoon. We all know that manufacturing plays an important part in the life of this country. We also know that the situation regarding manufacturing industry generally, both large and small business, was in a very bad state when the present government took office and when  Senator Cotton  accepted responsibility as Minister and inherited many problems which were created by the Australian Labor Party when it was in power. Manufacturing is an important part of the whole of the economic sector of Australia. It accounts for about onequarter of our national production and about one-fifth of our exports. It has employed more than 1 300 000 people and generated incomes of more than $10 billion. Those figures alone show the importance of manufacturing industry to this country. 
If one looks further one finds that, overall, from 1974 manufacturing industry employed something like 23.5 per cent of people working in general industry. By 1975 this figure was down to 21.9 per cent and by May 1976, fortunately with the wisdom of government, the position has been held and employment in manufacturing industry was standing at about 21.6 per cent. The point I am making here is that while manufacturing industry in many aspects had been sorely neglected and badly bruised because of the policies of the previous Government, when we took office we were able to reach a static position rather than a continuing decline. I was interested in the comment made this afternoon by  Senator Douglas  McClelland who stated that in 1974 the Whitlam Government established a committee for the development of manufacturing industry. I only say that I wish that Government had done that in late 1972 when it took office. If the then government had established a committee at that stage it would have had some sound advice on how to assist industry rather than to deter industry. 
When we took office we were faced with manufacturing industry whose confidence was totally at rock bottom caused, as I have said, by the policies, attitudes and philosophy of the Labor Government. For quite a time profit was regarded as a dirty word. I concede that in 1974 profit was recognised as a necessary part of industry generally, but by then the damage had been done. Inflation was running at an annual rate of some 14 per cent. This afternoon costs were discussed. We found that average weekly earnings had risen by over 60 per cent in the 3 years of the Whitlam Government. Many forms of support by the previous Government which had helped to control costs had been abruptly removed. I refer to concessions to export industries and various taxation concessions. To top off the situation we had a 25 per cent cut in tariffs right across the board which had an adverse effect upon labour intensive industries. One does not have to go into detail to explain the chaos that caused in industry and the tragedies which resulted to employment in this country. Today we are trying to recover the situation, but on top of this we have the humanitarian problem of unemployment. 
I was very interested in many of the comments and criticisms made today about our current policies and what is happening with regard to small businesses. I ask honourable senators to cast their minds back to 1 974. That is the year to which  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed this afternoon as being the year in which the Whitlam Government established a committee to look into and to assist manufacturing and secondary industry generally. I shall read from the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 28 August 1 975. The article is headed: 
The small man is going out of business. 
I emphasise that this article was written in August 1975 towards the end of the 3-year term of the Whitlam Government. It states: 
Statistics tell part of the sorry story. Last year 463 people in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory were declared bankrupt - 
That is the year 1974- either voluntarily or by sequestration. In the first 6 months of this year 253 bankruptcies were registered. The figures for the second 3 months of this period, April S3, May 54, June 45, were higher than the normal monthly averages. 
The article goes on to state: 
A bankruptcy registry official said: ' Particularly in the past few weeks the number of individuals volunteering to be declared bankrupt far exceeded those over the same periods in the previous years '. 
I refer to New South Wales in particular with these figures because this afternoon New South Wales was used as an example for the current situation. It is interesting that the article in relation to 1971 states: 
A total of some 537 companies in New South Wales went into liquidation, 894 in 1972, 1058 in 1973 and in the year 1974, 1 155 companies went into liquidation in the State of New South Wales. 
The article goes on and asks: 
What of the fate of those businesses which are run as family concerns or partnerships and are not registered as companies? These businesses are registered under the Business Names Act and it is significant that in 1974 applications for new names were 1036 fewer than in 1973 - 
These are the words I want to emphasise to the Senate- the first yearly fall recorded by the New South Wales Statistician 's Office since 1 967. 
This shows clearly the situation which was current when this Government took office. This afternoon we have listened to platitudes. We have listened to criticism from the Opposition with regard to the current policies of this Government. I know we must look forward and not backwards to any great extent but I only wish that the previous Government in 1972 had thought about establishing a committee to give it a bit of advice on the realities of the economy and on the need to give assistance to industry rather than leaving it until 1974 when, as I have just shown from the figures I have cited, the damage was done. I have shown the tragedies of what happened with regard to the overall situation. As I said earlier, inflation was running at terrific rates. We had problems with increased weekly earnings. We had increased manufacturing labour costs. A document which I have states: 
Between 1972 and 197S these costs increased at an average rate of more than 1 7 per cent per annum. 
This rate of increase was greater than in any major trading partner and compared with a rate of about 6 per cent per annum in the United States of America. I think this is significant because if one looks at the figures for West Germany and Japan one sees that they had high inflation rates during the energy crisis but that they were able to recover their situation. We in Australia at one stage were one of the lowest inflated countries in the world but tragically, within 3 years, we became one of the international pacesetters for inflation. Today we are still paying a great price for it. 
One could go to many other areas to illustrate the problems we are facing at present, but let me turn instead to what the Government is doing about them. A number of policy decisions already has been implemented. One is in respect of the motor vehicle industry and the other concerns the abandonment of a piecemeal approach towards the textile and clothing industries and the introduction of a tariff quotas policy for those industries in the short term. A fortnight ago  Senator Cotton  and  Mr Anthony  went to New Zealand to have discussions with the New Zealand Government on the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Arrangement. No doubt textiles were discussed because there has been grave concern in Australia as a result of the problems which have been created in the industry. 
We face a great problem and I cannot emphasise too much that, whilst other factors contribute towards it, fiscal policies have had a great effect upon the general situation. One can appreciate that productivity in Australia is down at present in comparison with so many of our trading competitors throughout the world. Also other countries have reduced their inflation rate but we unfortunately, even though we have reduced inflation, are still facing grave problems in this area. I refer again to what the Minister said this afternoon about the White Paper. He mentioned many of the policies which the Government has implemented. I wish to mention two more which have had very beneficial effects upon the economy generally and upon industry in particular. I quote from a paper prepared by the Minister and delivered in Sydney a fortnight ago in which he said: 
We have introduced adjustments to division 7 taxation to improve the retention of funds by private companies, most of which are small Arms. The amount of after tax income which can now be retained by private companies without further tax penalty has been increased from SO per cent to 60 per cent. Policies are already beginning to pay ofl" with regard to the overall economic performance. In investment in plant and equipment by private enterprise it has increased by 32 per cent in the year to the December quarter of this nineteenth year, 1976, equal to a growth of 18.4 per cent in real terms. 
I could go on mentioning other policies. I wish instead to turn to the reference by the Minister to the White Paper in August 1976 where he stated: 
I held discussions with representatives of 17 major manufacturing and non-manufacturing associations on the White Paper. In November I made an advanced draft of the White Paper available to officials of the Commonwealth Government. The November 1 976 devaluation and the subsequent change in the exchange regime had been one of the reasons for recasting the draft of the White Paper. More recently the main issue has been the study of employment opportunities. 
I wish to underline 'employment opportunities'. He continued: 
My objective is to have the White Paper released in as short a time as possible but I am also concerned that it should be a good and sensible document. It is simply a case of balancing these two objectives. 
I think that that is most important. It is all very well to talk about a White Paper. The Minister without any trouble could produce a White Paper. However, in view of the number of people who have presented submissions to the Minister, in view of the need to study those submissions in depth, the need to have discussions with other people and to take into consideration other factors such as the infrastructure and the general structuring of industries, the need to get industry established properly and not to have holes and pockets in a White Paper, there is every requirement to make sure that responsibility is directed towards the preparation of a White Paper and not just to the presentation of a White Paper. The White Paper will be a guideline not just for government but also for manufacturing industry in this country with all its diversification, with all its large and small enterprises, and for those who wish to start enterprises. They will be looking for clearly defined and positive guidelines. 
So, there is a need to act responsibly. We have seen irresponsibility in the past in this country. We have seen the results of irresponsibility from previous governments. I support the Minister and am glad that he is taking his time to make sure that, when a White Paper is presented to this Parliament and country, it will be a paper of substance, a paper clearly defining the issues and guidelines and a paper that will give encouragement and confidence to manufacturing industry which for so long has been looking for leadership and has been lacking confidence because of the lack of leadership and lack of positiveness and clarity in Government policy. I support the Minister and totally reject the argument put forward by the Opposition today. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
We are dealing with the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill 1977. In the process the functions of the Agency will be transferred to a Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. I have listened with interest to the speech by  Senator Georges  this evening. One could not help but note the concern expressed by  Senator Georges  and his Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  with regard to the repeal of a Bill introduced by the Whitlam Government. Comment has been made also that when in Opposition we agreed with the introduction of that legislation to establish the Australian Development Assistance Agency. This is so; we did. We were prepared to try this experiment or innovation, call it what we may. Having said that I point out the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in particular feel that it would be to great advantage if we repealed the previous legislation and placed the aid agency within the Department of Foreign Affairs. I quote from part of the Minister's second reading speech where he stated: 
Experience over the last 12 months - 
I refer to the experience of the practice then of the Agency being involved within the Department of Foreign Affairs-   has already shown that the reintegration or the Agency into the Department has had a beneficial effect on the administration of our overseas aid program; a closer relationship between the Bureau and other areas of the Department has developed. 
I think that that in itself is very important. The Minister continued: 
Furthermore there is a deeper overall appreciation of the importance of development assistance in Australia's foreign policy. 
I think those words should be emphasised. I repeat them:   . . there is a deeper overall appreciation of the importance of development assistance in Australia 's foreign policy. 
Later on I hope to expand on this area and to give examples to the Senate of how just this has been put into practice and brought to reality. The Minister went on to say: 
In establishing a Bureau the Government is concerned to maintain the professional approach to aid administration and the opportunity for career specialisation which was being developed in the Agency. 
This again is very important.  Senator Wriedt  has made critical reference to the fact that the Agency will lose its autonomy. The Minister said: 
The Bureau will have a very substantial degree of autonomy in relation to financial management of the development assistance program. 
Whilst one can appreciate the concern being expressed by the Opposition because we are repealing something that it introduced, in all sincerity we believe, as the Minister has stated in his second reading speech, that there will be greater effectiveness by incorporating this Agency as a Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Whitlam Government and the present Government have been concerned with overseas aid and assisting developing countries. 
I think that was made clear in the second reading speech of the Minister. That is so. The honourable senator reads something dark and sinister into this legislation. We are trying to point out what the Minister fully appreciates. He is trying to give greater effectiveness in the types of aid given by Australia to developing and other countries. 
I mention the fact that all governments have placed considerable importance on aid. Amounts of aid have varied because of economic situations within Australia. Whilst we are regarded as a developed country, in comparison with many other countries we could still be regarded as a developing country. Whilst we are rich in resources and have a high standard of living- we are a very fortunate people- nevertheless because of the limitations of finance for developments many things are still not achieved in this country. I refer to such things as a sealed continuous road link between Sydney and Perth- which was completed only recently. A great stretch of the road from Adelaide to Darwin is dirt. It is regarded as a dirt track. Quite often it is completely unuseable because of damage from rain. A similar problem exists with the construction of a railway from Adelaide to Darwin to provide a complete rail connection to the northern capital. 
A railway line is under construction between South Australia and Mee Springs. This is something that has been needed for years. It will not be completed for years to come. One could go on and outline so many areas in which a great deal remains to be done. I mention the area of water conservation in which  Senator Mulvihill  is interested. 
We appreciate the fact that we are a country rich in resources. We have a high standard of living generally in relation to our near neighbours. I refer to Indonesia, New Guinea, Malaysia and the Philippines. As I said earlier we have given a great deal of aid on a multilateral basis and a bilateral basis. I am concerned that  Senator Wriedt,  when this matter was last debated, referred to the fact that perhaps there were some hidden sinister ideals within the repeal of this legislation. I quote from  Hansard,  page 901, where  Senator Wriedt  states: 
In fact, it is fair to say that the disbanding of the Agency and its being passed over to the Department of Foreign Affairs is a part of a move by this Government to submerge the activities of foreign aid. 
This is not so. One must look at the figures. I refer again to  Senator Knight's  speech. On page 903  of Hansard  he said:   in the 1975 Budget, for example, bilateral aid was increased by $20.7m. In the 1976 Budget of the present Government it was increased by $3 1 .9m. In the 1 975 Budget of the Labor Government, multilateral aid decreased by $ 1 .4m. Last year, in the first Budget of the present Government, multilateral aid was increased by $ 1 8.7m. The result was that in the 1975 Budget the total increase in development assistance was $19.3m compared with $50. 6m in the first Budget of the present Government. 
I think that this shows clearly, in figures, that what was implied in a statement by the Opposition is not, in fact, a reality. 
A great deal of our assistance has gone directly to Papua-New Guinea. As we all appreciate in this country, for many years Papua-New Guinea was a responsibility of the Australian people and the Australian Government. We are continuing to give assistance to Papua-New Guinea. In fact, the great proportion of our aid still goes to Papua-New Guinea. Indonesia, a very close neighbour of ours, also fits very highly into the overall pattern of aid that is given. I refer again to the Minister's second reading speech. It stated: 
The pledge of at least $930m in untied - 
I emphasise ' untied '-  grant aid over 5 years to Papua New Guinea was welcomed by that country as were our commitments of $86m over 3 years to Indonesia and at least $60m to the island nations of the South Pacific over the same period. 
One can look at the area of the Association of South East Asian Nations from which the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  has just returned, having spent some days in discussions with leaders of the various countries in the group. These are Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines. They are all very important countries. They are closely allied through ASEAN. They are looking to Australia not just for monetary aid but for greater assistance. They are in this very important part of the world which for so many years was totally overlooked by the commercial sectors of the world, if I can put it on that basis. 
I have mentioned our aid to Indonesia. Australian aid to the Philippines amounted to some $6.78m in 1975-76, bringing the total amount since the inception of the program to nearly $22m. Expenditure in the current year is expected to be around $5. 36m. This money is going into general projects, into education and also into food aid. In respect of Thailand, another member of the ASEAN group, Australian aid for rural development alone amounts to $ 10.5m. I think that this itself is very important. It is all very well to continue to give money to countries to feed hungry people and to give food but it is far better to get to the root of the problem. This is what the Australian Government is doing. It is assisting in the development of rural production. It is assisting with the development of roads to open up the country so that production can be increased and so that there will be a greater amount of self-sufficiency. I wholly support this type of aid. It is far better to do this than to pour in continually shiploads of food. It is far better to assist so that there can be some independence within the country. I refer also to the Thai-Australian highway in northcentral Thailand. This road cost $7,950,000. lt has been under construction for some years. I was interested to see that the Minister visited this road whilst he was in Thailand. 
The honourable senator is quite right. That is one of the tragedies. The Minister saw part of it. He was not able to see all the road because of the tragedy of what the terrorists were doing in that country. That is one of the tragedies that some of these countries have to put up with. Australian assistance to the South Pacific amounts to $60m. It goes to 9 island nations throughout the South Pacific. I shall not go into detail of what is being done there other than to say that here again there is diversification in our aid. Aid is being given in real terms, not just on a dollar and cents basis. It is being followed up by the Australian Government. 
Too much emphasis in the past has been put on how much has been given rather than what sort of aid should be given and how that aid should be applied and followed up. One can cite many examples, as  Senator Knight  and  Senator Georges  did this evening, of when the wrong type of aid has been given to countries. Whilst some may talk of dollars and cents it is far better to lay more importance upon the type of aid that is given and how that aid is given. In this respect I again refer to the Minister's second reading speech. It states: 
In order to improve the quality of our aid and to ensure its relevance to their needs, a series of program planning missions have been sent to the Pacific and to Asian countries. 
This bears out exactly what I have said. If the Senate will agree I should like to incorporate in Hansard a paper I have which relates to the overall assistance and the manner in which it is followed up by the Minister's Department, in discussion with the countries concerned, in making sure that the right type of aid is given. I refer to project reviews, commissioning of studies and project negotiations in the Philippines and Indonesia. Some 4 weeks were spent this year in study and discussion with people in those countries before aid was given. In real and practical terms the Government is making sure that our assistance will be of the greatest benefit to those countries. I seek leave to have the paper setting out these programs incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Before I ask whether leave is granted, has this matter been referred to the Leader of the Opposition? 
I am prepared to give this paper to  Senator Keeffe. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Has that been done in accordance with the standing order recently adopted? 
It is about to be done. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted for the paper to be incorporated in Hansard? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 

 The paper read as follows- 

As I said earlier, it is all very well for a country to continue putting up money rather than putting up the right sort of assistance to countries. I am very pleased to see that the Minister, by repealing this Bill, has laid emphasis upon the activities of this Bureau which will be placing greater stress upon the real needs of countries and the type of aid that will be given and, hopefully, its follow up. There have been examples of what has happened in the past. Self-propelled headers were given to a certain country to be used for reaping and harvesting well before any projects had been undertaken in real terms. The land had not been cleared. A few years later, on a visit to that country, one saw those machines still in a corner, never having been used, with vines and creepers growing all through them. That was no fault of the country to which that type of aid was given. That was the fault of the donor country. In the first place it had not looked closely to see what type of aid was needed. Secondly, there had been no follow-up to see how that aid was benefiting the country. 
There is a great need for the type of inquiries that are being propounded by the Minister to make sure that the correct sort of aid is given. Whether it is in the form of education, road construction, assistance for harbour development, general infrastructure, general agricultural development or anything else, there is a need for close examination, discussion with the countries concerned and a follow-up to make sure that the aid is being utilised to the greatest benefit of the recipient country. I say that not in the hope that we, as a nation, will buy over these countries by giving assistance but in the hope that we, as a nation, will accept our responsibility to give assistance to developing countries, to make sure that we give assistance to those countries in the best method possible to get the greatest effectiveness and benefits for the people whom we are trying to help. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. With the surplus of red wine grapes in the Australian wine industry at the present time, which is causing grave concern in the industry, will the Minister give immediate consideration I emphasise 'immediate consideration' to either increasing the import duty or imposing quotas on the importation of overseas brandy, which would allow those grapes to be absorbed in the increased production of Australian brandy and so alleviate what has now become a critical situation in the Australian wine industry? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Are reports correct that the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  may reduce the standards on exhaust emission in motor vehicles to increase fuel conservation? If so, is it proposed to continue the use of lead as an additive to petrol, which increases the octane rating in fuel and so adds to efficiency and decreases fuel consumption? 
Once again the Senate has listened to an attack by  Senator Gietzelt  on multi-national corporations. It is a fascinating exercise. On how many occasions do we hear various members of the Opposition attacking the multi-national corporations?  Senator Gietzelt  's attack centred to a great extent on the motor industry and particularly General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd. I remind the Senate that General Motors came to Australia during the reign of a Labor Government. Under  Mr Chifley,  it was firmly established here. It then was what  Senator Gietzelt  would call a multi-national corporation. It has, along with other motor industries in Australia, made a big contribution to this country particularly in the areas of employment and the economy. One could go further and say that the whole of the motor industry within Australia is multi-national. 
What are these companies doing for the country at present? How many people do these companies employ? How much other industry is involved indirectly through these various companies? As a South Australian I ask: How much is my own State leaning upon the motor industry for employment and for its economy. One gets rather tired of hearing the continual criticism and denigration of what the Opposition refers to as multi-national corporations. Without overseas investment and initiatives in this country Australia would not have had the progressive and overall development that has taken place since the 1939-45 war in particular. The motor industry played a large part in this development. When General Motors- it is now known as General Motors-Holden 's- sought to establish a motor industry in Australia, why did not the Labor Party seek to set up that industry itself? The reason simply is that we did not have the expertise or the capital. The Labor Party Government went overseas to encourage a company to come here and to establish a motor vehicle industry in Australia. Since then we have seen an expansion by other companies- multi-nationals -to establish further motor industries within Australia. There are problems today. This debate is concerned with the economic situation within General Motors-Holden 's which has a surplus of motor vehicles and with the employment of those who are working within the organisation. 
For a long time there has been a change in consumer demand for motor vehicles in Australia. There has been a tendency to move to smaller vehicles. This trend has continued. The motor industry, like any other industry, is reliant upon the wishes or whims- call it what we like- of consumer demand. But, today, because of the cost for the initial outlay of a motor vehicle, fuel consumption, insurance, depreciation etc. there is and will be a continuing demand for smaller motor vehicles in Australia. Of course as time goes on and the energy shortage develops we will see greater encouragement for this tendency in Australia. I am afraid that not enough people in this country are really aware of the crude oil situation in Australia. 
Let me look at the crude oil situation if the present rate of consumption continues. At present Australia is supplying something like 70 per cent of its own requirements of indigenous crude oil. But by the year 1985, unless further finds are made or unless there are increases in the price of crude oil, we will see our current reserves go down to approximately 30 per cent. That is not a good position to be in when we have to rely more and more on imports of overseas crude at far higher prices. 
We have seen inroads into our Australian markets particularly from the Japanese with their smaller cars. They have made their inroads because they have met the market and the demand of the people within this country. We have also seen some of our own Australian companies step fairly quickly into this area to meet the demand for smaller cars. I refer particularly to the market foresight of Chrysler Australia Ltd which fairly early in the piece introduced within its range some smaller cars which have sold very well because of the demand for such types of vehicles. 
There has been much criticism today of General Motors-Holden 's. But let us be fair. We have listened to a tirade today from  Senator Gietzelt.  But General Motors-Holden 's, along with the other companies in the motor industry, has played an important part to assist in the development of secondary industry in Australia. It has been a big revenue earner. It also has been a great employer of labour. I refer not only to GM-H but also to Chrysler and Ford which have established themselves here. Since then the Toyota and Datsun companies also have established in Australia. 
Market changes or consumer demand, as I have said, change the pattern considerably. Styles and desires of people have changed as has the demand for particular types of cars. Whereas GM-H for a long time was the leader in the supplies of Australian made vehicles, we find a progressive decline in its share of the market. In 1974-75, GM-H held 23.9 per cent of the Australian market, Ford held 20.7 per cent and Chrysler had some 9.7 per cent. By 1975-76 GM-H still had 26. 1 per cent of the market whilst Ford held 22.2 per cent and Chrysler some 9.6 per cent. In December 1976 the share of the market held by GM-H declined to some 24.2 per cent while Ford 's share had increased to 23.5 per cent and Chrysler's share had dropped to some 8.6 percent. 
It is interesting to see from these figures how GM-H to some extent has tended to misjudge the market. There is no doubt that the present concern within GM-H and the factors which are being debated here today arise from the fact that, in anticipation of consumer demand, the company has misjudged the market. It is interesting to note that whilst the demand for GM-H products is down at present, figures for Chrysler Australia show that that company has improved from a previous position of 8.6 per cent of the Australian market in the March quarter to 9.5 per cent, even though, as has been said today, indicators show that Chrysler sales, along with other motor firm sales, will be down when we see the April figures. Much of this, no doubt, is due to the Victorian fuel strike which affected sales in that State considerably. 
There are other aspects such as the concern of people at present to see what happens about the wage freeze. But whilst the percentage of sales by GM-H has declined there has been an increase in Chrysler sales. There was a lot of criticism today from  Senator Gietzelt  about the profits of these various so-called multi-national corporations. It is interesting to see the figures for the Ford company from 1 972 to 1 976. That company has gone from a net profit after tax of $ 15m in 1972 to a net profit of $22m in 1976. During the same period the profit of GM-H went from $ 15.3m in 1 972 to $ 1 7.9m in 1 975. In 1 976 the profit fell to $ 16.3m which was a drop of 8.5 per cent. It is also interesting to consider exports. In 1973 export sales were standing at approximately 41 000 units. In 1975 they dropped from 41 000 to 7500 units. In 1976 they held at about the same figure. I shall refer again later to that particular aspect. 
I want to refer quickly to comments made by  Senator Gietzelt.  He talked about multi-national corporations making huge profits in this country. Let us look at some of the figures for Chrysler Australia, a company which employs a terrific number of people within this country and which still intends to expand because it has confidence in the country. In 1972 Chrysler showed a loss of nearly $4m. In 1973 and 1974 it showed a profit. In 1 975 it showed a loss in excess of $ 1 m. In 1 976 it showed a loss of $2.1 m, a loss that was related to a terrific outlay of millions of dollars. It is all very well for Opposition Senators to stand in this place and scream about companies when they make a profit. Do they cry any tears in this place or express any sympathy for a company with multi-millions invested when it shows a loss? No, they do not. 
I now turn to GM-H itself. Reference has been made to the vast profits of GM-H this year. In real terms, the profits work out to be a return of 4 1/2 per cent on invested capital of $364m. This is what it is all about. I ask Opposition senators today whether they would be prepared to put their savings in an investment that will return 4Vi per cent. Of course they would not. They would go down the street elsewhere. Nor would they invest in a firm that guaranteed them 10 per cent this year with a risk that there would be a loss next year. They would not be in it. It is all very well for them to stand here with their crocodile tears and criticisms of multinational corporations. A lot is involved in investment in this country for companies such as GM-H with a huge amount of investment capital and risk capital tied up. 
Concern has been expressed today because GM-H has a surplus of vehicles which, at present, it is unable to sell. No doubt much of this is due to the fact that it has misjudged the market. The company proposes to stand down many of its employees with a week 's leave on full pay. I support what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in relation to this proposal. In the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 3 May he said: 
It would be the view of the Government that attempts to have those discussions on a proper and meaningful basis should certainly have been made considerably in advance of the action taken by General Motors. 
I support that statement. It is most important, always, to have consultation and communication. That has been the Government's policy. Comments have been made by the General Manager of General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd in relation to the great expansion that is taking place in the motor industry. I understand that by 1980 GM-H intends to have expanded its investment by approximately $150m. In all some $500m will be invested by the motor industry in this country. I refer to GM-H, Ford, Chrysler, Datsun and Toyota. My overall concern is that even with the great expansion that is taking place within the 5 motor vehicle manufacturers in this country we must get back into the exporting field in which we once exported 20 per cent of our production. Today the figure is down to 3 per cent purely because of the costs involved and the lack of competition with overseas competitors. Unless we return to our former position, Australia's motor industry will not be in a very pretty position. 
Vast investments have been made by the motor industries in this country and they are prepared to expand because of their confidence in the country. I suggest, however, that there has to be an increase in productivity if those industries are to survive effectively. They must turn to exports. We cannot afford to see our exports drop from 20 per cent to 3 per cent. There is a need to upgrade this figure and return to an export level of 20 per cent if we are to maintain a viable motor industry in this country. I do not support the detail of much of what has been said by the Opposition today but I express my concern for the motor industry at present and the workers who are in an invidious position because of the fear of unemployment in the short term. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a report in today's Press that 60 employees in a paper mill in South Australia have launched a work sharing scheme taking one week off without pay every month to save the jobs of 28 men. Is it a fact that these men cannot obtain unemployment benefits for the off week? If so, why do employees on the same scheme in mills in other States receive unemployment benefits. Why has the Minister referred the matter to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has he seen reports that the Premier of South Australia has withdrawn his support for the prices and wages freeze? Did not the South Australian Premier give his full support to such a freeze when it was first suggested? Does not his new stand on the matter clearly show that once again he has bent to the demands of the radical section of the trade unions in South Australia? Is the Leader of the Government aware also that  Mr Dunstan  's actions now leave the way open for the South Australian Government to increase State taxes which in some instances are already the highest in Australia, thereby adversely affecting the further development and expansion of industry in that State? Will not  Mr Dunstan  's new stand on the prices and wages freeze also encourage industry to increase its prices, which could lead to an increase in the consumer price index in South Australia? 
It is the right of the Opposition on all occasions to criticise the Government, but on some occasions it would be pleasant to see the Opposition criticising the Government constructively. It has been interesting to take note of the comments made in this debate by some members of the Opposition presenting their case. None of them has stated the clear facts in relation to government policies and government fiscal policies which have been propounded since the Government came to power in 1975. At that time this country was facing an economic crisis; people were told that we would have a long hard battle but that the Government intended to act responsibly and not try to play politics with the economy. That has been clearly shown, and it will be recorded in history. But what is also being shown, and shown very clearly, is the fact that at last the indicators show that there is economic recovery in Australia. I admit that we still have the tragedy of unemployment, but we inherited the unemployment problem. It is an aftermath of inflation. If one looks at the economic history of the world one finds that the employment situation is the last to recover from a depression, call it what you will. On this occasion we have been faced with inflation. Although that it not a depression, we have had an economic crisis from which we are now emerging. But we still face the problems, the traumas, the tragedies and the inhumanities of unemployment. 
I am delighted to be part of a government which can clearly show that by its policies Australia is again emerging to economic stability. Much emphasis today is given to and the spotlight has been placed upon many of the statements made by  President  Carter of the United States of America about the energy shortage in that country, the heavy dependence of the United States upon imported crude oil and the concern at the dependence of that gigantic country whose requirements of overseas crude oil run into many millions of barrels of oil per annum. It is estimated that in 30 years time, unless more finds are made, the overseas crude oil requirements of that country will be practically depleted. Not only the United States but also the world at large is facing a crisis at the present time. Australia has to realise that it has grave problems which it has to face. Unfortunately not enough people are conscious of the situation. 
Australian energy needs to some extent for transport, for electricity, for industry and for domestic uses break up into the following figures: Some 50 per cent of our energy requirements come from crude oil, 40 per cent from coal, and the other 10 per cent from natural gas, hydroelectricity and so on. We also face the bleak prospect of growing dependence upon more imported crude oil. At the present time we in Australia produce something like 70 per cent of our crude oil requirements. But it is estimated that, by the year 1 985, because of the depletion of our existing oil fields, our production will be down to about 25 per cent to 30 per cent of our requirements. That is the position we will face if no more crude oil is found in Australia. In that case we will have greater dependence upon overseas supplies and increased imports. Of course, one can turn to alternative sources of energy. One could refer to such things as an increase in the electrification of railways. One could mention the greater use of liquid petroleum gas. There are many other energy sources to which I will refer later. 
We in Australia have been very fortunate with regard to our supplies of natural resources. I refer not only to crude oil and natural gas but also to many other minerals. We have had available cheap crude oil in Australia. The local price to the producer is $2.33 a barrel which is sold to Australia at something like $4.30 a barrel landed on the coast. In comparison imported crude oil costs approximately $12.50 a barrel. The bill for the 30 per cent-odd of crude oil that we import at the present time amounts to some $805m. But I emphasise the point that, if we were not 70 per cent self sufficient, our present bill for imported crude oil would be in the vicinity of $ 1,200m. That is a fantastic amount of money. 
If we take it a little further -I will be mentioning this matter again later- we find that, working on the usual 5 per cent increase in price per annum and working on the basis that we do not find any more oil deposits, by the year 1985 our import bill will be some $4,000m per annum. That is a big figure. I recall that a $4,000m loan caused consternation throughout this country some short time ago because of the exorbitant figure involved. But we will be facing an import bill for crude oil of some $4,000m, not once but per annum. 
We in this country have been fortunate in that we have had available to us cheap crude oil which in turn has meant cheap petrol for the people. But basically that has had 4 effects. Firstly, it has helped Australia economically because Australia is so dependent upon transportation. Secondly, it has also encouraged an increased usage of petrol. Many people take for granted the supply of petrol. The cost has not been exorbitant, so to some exent one could say that there has been an excessive usage, if not a wastage, of petrol in Australia. Thirdly, it has not encouraged but rather discouraged the development of alternative energy sources. Fourthly, it has discouraged oil exploration and production in this country. So, we have to look very seriously at the situation because there is a need to conserve our crude oil and there is a need for further encouragement to look to alternative energy sources. Also there is a desperate need to encourage further oil exploration within Australia. That is an area that for too long has been allowed to run down in this country. 
Debate interrupted. 
Yesterday evening, before the adjournment of the Senate, I made reference to the crude oil situation in this country. I stated that whilst President Carter had indicated the situation in America, which was one of grave concern to that country, there should be grave concern about this issue throughout the world, particularly in Australia because to a great extent Australia's energy needs for crude oil are based upon transport. Because of the peculiarity of our countryits sparseness of population and the distance between cities- road transport will always play a very important part. That being the case, we have to take a very close look at our crude oil supplies. Whilst at the present time we have approximately  70  per cent self-sufficiency in crude oil, it is estimated on current usage and estimated increased usage that by  19d''  our reserves could be down to about  25  per cent to  30  per cent of our needs with the depletion of our oil fields. 
We have been a fortunate country inasmuch as our local crude oil returns to the producer in the vicinity of $2.33 a barrel or, to put it another way, it is provided to the consumer at a cost of about $4.30 a barrel landed on the Australian coast, compared with a price of some $12.50 a barrel for imported crude oil. At present our import bill for crude oil alone stands in the vicinity of some $805m per annum. But if we were to convert all our crude oil prices to import parity we would be standing with an import bill of something like $ 1,200m per annum and much dearer petrol. If we were to project that figure to 1985 and estimate the cost of crude oil and the volume we would require at that time our import bill for crude oil could be in the vicinity of $4,000m per annum. 
There is a great need, firstly, to encourage exploration for oil to make further findings within Australia and, secondly, to make the people more aware of the need to conserve our energy. In the past our cheaper fuel prices have encouraged excessive usage of petrol and the average motorist has not realised that petrol will rapidly become a scarce commodity if we do not find more oil. We should consider what has occurred in the field of exploration for oil in the past few years. If we look at the figures for 1970 we find there was a great deal of exploration activity at that time. In that year alone some 120 wells were drilled, both on-shore and off-shore. But gradually this activity slowed down until in 1976, last year, we find only 21 wells were drilled, both on-shore and off-shore. Even though at the present time we are encouraged to see an increase in oil exploration, we are still faced with this bad gap between 1972 and 1976 when, unfortunately, many oil rigs not only stopped working in Australia but, worse than that, they left the Australian continent because of the lack of incentive to do anything about exploration. 
Even if new discoveries were made at the present time we would still be faced with a time lag and a widening gap, creating a shortage of Australian crude oil. There is a great time lead- it could be a few years, depending on whether oil is found off-shore- between when the crude oil is found and when the well is brought into production. So whichever way we turn we find we have no alternative but to face the realities of life, which mean that we must anticipate increased prices for crude oil which, in turn, means increased prices for petrol. If no more oil is found in Australia we will have to import more oil to fill the gap. We know what the price of crude oil is at the present time. Worse than that, we know also what the oil exporting countries can do. We saw an example of this a few years ago when they created the energy crisis. 
We have another problem at present which I think I should point out to the Senate. We have just seen the results of an election in Israel where a party that has an entirely different attitude from the previous Government of Israel has come into power. I suppose one could describe this Party as a more hard-line government with regard to the situation in the Suez area. Already we have seen the Arab countries hardening in their attitudes with regard to oil prices. Saudi Arabia, which last year opposed the gigantic increase of some 1 5 per cent in crude oil prices by the Arab countries and finally obtained an agreement for an increase of only 5 per cent, indicated 2 days ago that it would be looking for further increases this year- no doubt greater increases. One can immediately assume that what this is all about is what one could term 'resources diplomacy'. Without any doubt, resources diplomacy could become a fact. The attitude of Israel in turn could have an effect upon future crude oil prices which will affect this country. 
I mention that to indicate the sensitiveness of the situation with regard to foreign crude oil, upon which we are becoming more and more dependent. At any time the Arab countries could create a situation with crude oil such as the one I mentioned earlier which caused such an economic and energy crisis throughout the world. We are leaving ourselves more open all the time to dependence upon imported crude oil from the Arab countries, which could lead to the same situation as that which occurred so many years ago. But when it happened then we were in a more fortunate position in as much we had our own crude oil to the extent of some 70 per cent of our requirements. 
We have to consider what we can do to fill the gap between our supplies of crude oil and our requirement for it. Firstly, we can move into secondary recovery, as it is called. Normally when oil producing wells are tapped the oil flows to the surface. Whilst one could talk of the volume and structure of the oil, the actual recovery of oil from normal pressure out of the ground is limited to not a very great percentage of the totality of the crude oil in that reservoir. Further amounts of crude oil are able to be extracted by other methods. It is done by injecting under terrific pressure either gas or sea water, which forces more oil out of the structure. That process is more expensive. If we wish to move away from the current rate of depletion that we are facing both in Bass Strait and at Barrow Island at present and into secondary recovery, which will recover more oil, in the process we will have higher costs. Whichever way we turn we will have to face increased prices for crude oil. 
One can go further in this area. There are pockets of oil in Bass Strait which are too small to be viable at present. It would be uneconomic at present prices to get any recovery from them. It has been estimated by Esso-BHP that there could be some 400 million barrels of crude oil in the small pockets in Bass Strait. They are uneconomic at the present price of $2.33 a barrel. With an increased price for crude oil, recovery could take place to such an extent that we could add something like 20 per cent to Australia's crude oil reserves at present. Quite frankly, I see for us no alternative to facing up to facts. This is what we will have to do. It would be far better for us to pay more for our local crude, even if the price of that local crude were to go up to import parity- at least the money is staying at homethan to import this extra 20 per cent of crude oil. 
One might be questioned about why it would be expensive to extract oil from these little pockets. One must realise that the oil is sitting under the seabed and under a few hundred feet of sea water. There is the cost not only of laying a pipeline but also of setting up a platform over that pocket, small though it may be but valuable as it may be at the right price or an economic price for recovery. Platforms today are costing between $80m and $100m. No company would invest that sort of money to recover a small amount of oil and risk showing a loss. When one looks at the cost involved in the recovery of oil, particularly from these small pockets, one appreciates that an incentive must be given to companies if we are to recover this extra 20 per cent of our reserves. 
I repeat that Australia has been a very lucky country. As I said last night, we have had some of the cheapest petrol in the world. Whilst we have been fortunate in many ways, our luck has meant 3 things: It has encouraged the increased usage or perhaps one could say wastage of petrol; it has discouraged the development of alternative energy sources; and it has discouraged oil exploration and production, particularly production. By 'production' I am referring again to these small pockets of oil. This applies also to Barrow Island, where the companies will have to move into secondary production if they are to continue much of the production. 
Whilst some can sit back and be complacent about the situation, I think we must realise that oil is now becoming a dearer commodity not only overseas but also in Australia. Many people have the idea that all oil companies are wealthy; that they are all multi, multi, multi-millionaires. Some are. Some oil companies are lucky. EssoBHP in Bass Strait has been very fortunate. Australia has been very fortunate because of the finds of crude oil made in Bass Strait. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about Australia's crude oil reserves and the fact that as a nation we will eventually have to face the problems of increased prices for crude oil, which in turn will mean increased prices for petrol. I do not say when that will happen, or how high these prices will go, but it is a fact of life that whichever way we turn we are going to face dearer crude oil, whether in the form of imported oil to fill the gap created by a depletion of our reserves, which oil costs much more than Australian oil at the present time, whether it be in the area of secondary recovery which costs a lot more than in the area of primary recovery, which I dealt with earlier, or whether it involves bringing into production pools of crude oil which at the present time and at present prices are not economical. 
At the suspension of the sitting I was suggesting that incentives be given to oil companies to encourage them to explore for oil, an activity which, tragically, has been allowed to run down in this country for many reasons, including previous government policies the prices for crude oil at the present time and a lack of incentives generally for companies to take the high risks involved in exploration. I make passing reference to the fact that Esso-BHP has done extremely well in Bass Strait. This company has been very fortunate in making a quite good find very close to the shores of Victoria and it has made quite big profits. At the same time Australia has benefited considerably because if we did not have the Bass Strait oil and if we did not have the Barrow Island oil and some of the other finds that have been made around Australia, our import bill today would be $ 1,200m instead of $800m. As time goes on and the prices for overseas crude oil increase, that bill of $ 1,200m will be very small in comparison with what countries will have to pay for crude oil when they have to rely on imports. 
Having said those things and having referred to the fact that Esso-BHP is showing a profit from its find in Bass Strait, I point out that there are many oil companies throughout Australia which have spent terrific amounts of money on exploration but have found absolutely nothing. Exploration is not cheap by the time a company carries out the various technical surveys before finally drilling wells, not knowing whether it is going to find anything. One thing oil exploration companies do know is that each off-shore well is going to cost a minimum of $2m to $3m, whether it be a dry-blow well, as the industry calls it, or a well which shows encouraging signs. I am talking now of wells in shallow water. When it comes to exploring in deeper water these companies are putting at risk some $5m just to drill a hole in the seabed in the hope that they will find something, but there is no guarantee whatsoever that they will find anything. This is entirely different from much of the mining that has taken place in Australia in the past because before the mining companies started they knew from the minerals exposed on the surface that they had something. They did not know the vastness of the deposits but they knew that they were drilling down to minerals. By drilling they could find out the extent of mineralisation in the area. But that is entirely different from the situation faced by oil exploration companies. These oil companies can do their exploration, they can look at their graphs, they can look at their charts and everything looks extremely good on paper, but when they drill a hole they find absolutely nothing. 
There is a vast element of risk in oil exploration, particularly off-shore exploration, and the cost is extremely high. It has been estimated that more than $ 1000m will need to be spent in the next few years just to evaluate Australia's off-shore oil prospects. Evaluation does not mean that oil companies will find oil. These companies will have to spend, on present costs, at least $ 1000m to evaluate our off-shore oil prospects. It has also been estimated that we will need to discover in this country a further 3000 million barrels of crude oil, which is the equivalent of twice the Bass Strait production, just to hold our present level of some 70 per cent of self sufficiency by the year 1 990. So one can see the great expense and great risk involved in assessing and hoping to find further fields of crude oil in Australia and around our coastline. Incentives must be given to the oil industry if it is to spend this terrific amount of money because although we may be fortunate enough to find some oil, not all companies are going to have success. Many companies will spend millions of dollars on oil exploration and in all probability they will get no return whatsoever for their efforts. There is a need as far as I am concerned, as far is this Government is concerned and as far as this nation is concerned, to encourage further costly oil exploration if we are to find more oil around Australia. 
There is a need for Australia to find more oil, not only because ofthe cost saving factor but also because, as I said earlier this evening, it is important for us to have some independence from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries which in the past has held the world to ransom. There is a possibility that member countries of OPEC will do the same thing in the future because as crude oil becomes more scarce and fewer countries have this very scarce commodity, they will be able to hold the heavy stick. This is a dangerous situation for us to be in. So there is a need for us to strive for and hopefully achieve independence in this very important energy commodity. As I have said before, whatever we do, whether we find more oil but need time before it can come into production or on stream, or whether we enter into the field of secondary recovery, which could increase our reserves by some 20 per cent but which is a costly process, we will have to face the reality of dearer crude oil. 
-It is all very well for  Senator Georges  to make comment but to me this is a very serious situation. It is not one into which politics should intrude. As far as I am concerned it is a matter of national importance and should be looked at nationally not with any party bias or for the benefit of any party. It is of national importance and it has been shown throughout the world to be of international importance. Having said that, whilst we must look to our dwindling reserves of oil, I think we as a nation must look also to what we can do to conserve as much as possible our crude oil supply. Therefore, we must look perhaps to smaller cars than many of us have been used to driving around the countryside. With smaller cars we will get a far better mileage per gallon. 
We must look also to the possibility of increasing the electrification of our railways where coal could be used in the generation of electricity. I think we should be looking also as a nation to the encouragement of greater use of liquid petroleum gas in motor vehicles. I suggest to the Government that it should give serious consideration to lifting the sales tax on the conversion equipment required to modify a car from the use of petrol to liquid petroleum gas. I say that very seriously because I think there is a need for the Government to take a lead and give both encouragement and assistance to people to do this to help save crude oil. Australia, when it comes to natural gas, is in a very fortunate position. There is also the possibility that the Government could look to lifting the tax on LPG- granted it is not very high; nevertheless there is a tax- to give further encouragement to motorists. 
For a long time  Senator Jessop  has initiated talks and discussions on research into solar energy. I think there is a need for governmentshere I look to the State governments- to give a lead in encouraging consumers throughout the States to use solar heaters in their homes. It has been estimated that solar heating, if it were to be introduced both commercially and domestically, could conserve approximately 28 per cent of our energy resources at the present time. One must discount to a certain extent the use of solar energy in commerce but the 1 8 per cent that it is estimated could be conserved by the use of solar heating in homes is something to which we as a nation- again I look to the State governmentsshould give serious encouragement by way of assistance to the communities in the States in the implementation of this form of heating. 
Australia, with its peculiarities, its long distances and its dependence upon road transportation will always require a great deal of crude oil for petrol usage and also for diesel usage. The prospect of a growing shortage of local crude oil really is more alarming when one considers the end use of all products. Esso Australia has estimated that about 55 per cent of Australia's oil requirements is consumed in transportation and that petrol alone accounts for about 35 per cent of all oil consumed. As a major trading nation and as a sparsely populated nation, the efficient functioning of our economy is vitally dependent upon adequate transportation and, of course, we are totally dependent upon oil for road transport because this is the only form of portable energy presently available in sufficient quantities. For this reason there is very little scope for substitution of alternative energy sources on any significant scale in the near future. I refer here to such things as electric powered cars and many other modifications that have been suggested. That is for the future and we are talking about the concern of the present- the gap that has to be filled and the conservation that is necessary to make sure that we do not waste our scarce commodity. It has been estimated that the future growth in oil consumption is expected to be significantly less than in the past; that is, something of the order of 3  Vi  per cent per annum between now and the year 1990 compared with what it was over the past 10 years, which is estimated to be 5.7 per cent per annum. Nevertheless, at the current rate of growth in consumption the total oil demand will be about 850 000 barrels a day by the year 1985 and it has been estimated that it could reach up to 1 million barrels a day by 1990. 
I think this shows clearly the position. It shows clearly that we as a nation must take cognisance of the situation with which we will be faced in the not too distant future and we as citizens of this country must face the realities of life that the days of cheap oil for Australians are pretty well over. We have reached a situation now that whichever way we turn, whether it be to fill the gap by importing crude oil or whether it be by secondary recovery, which is expensive, we will face higher prices for crude oil. This means higher prices for the motorist. This is something which we as a nation will have to accept. In the acceptance of this, I hope we will realise also that we are dealing with a scarce commodity and must be conscious of the need for conservation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education, following numerous comments about surpluses of unused equipment in some schools throughout Australia which it is claimed are a result of the making of capital grants over the past few years. Has the Minister made any inquiries in relation to this matter? If so, what were his findings? 
Is leave granted? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do so following the outburst by  Senator McLaren  earlier this afternoon. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has gone overseas, as have some other senior Cabinet Ministers, to deal with affairs of state of this country, and that they are not on junkets but rather on hardworking overseas trips? In the light of the comments by  Senator McLaren  and the so-called impartiality of one or two Press and radio commentators, I ask the Minister. Has he any figures to show the number of overseas trips by Ministers of the Fraser Government compared with those by Ministers of the Whitlam Government over the same period? Further, as a little addendum, can the Minister say whether or not  Senator McLaren  will be going overseas in the coming recess? 

 -Mr President, I direct to you a question which I should like to set out in the context of certain events. For some time a  Mr J.  S. Dunn, an officer of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library has been critical of the actions taken by the Government of Indonesia in respect of the former Portuguese colony of East Timor. On 23 March this year he appeared before the United States House of Representatives Sub-Committee on International Organisations and Asian and Pacific Affairs- 
Speaking to the point of order,  Mr President,  I think this is a matter for you to decide. I am merely giving a little background before asking my question. At this stage  Senator Georges  has no idea what I am going to ask; hence I cannot understand his accusations. 
-What number is it, senator? 
I would like the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to explain to me if he can why this year the funds for Western Australia will be in excess of the amount recommended by the Bureau of Roads. As  Senator Steele  Hall pointed out tonight, this is not the first time that this has happened. I am concerned to know how much longer this type of thing will continue. I appreciate that, as  Senator Georges  said, $3.2m is not very much. It is a fair bit of money for some States; let me put it that way. As far as I am concerned, over the years we in South Australia have been disadvantaged, particularly when compared with Western Australia. In fact, for a long time one particular road was regarded as a State road when we argued it was a national road. It was sealed only in recent times. That road, which was of grave importance- I stress the word 'grave'- provided, once it was sealed, a sealed road from Sydney to Perth through South Australia. I refer to the Eyre Highway. 
No. For years there were dirt tracks on the South Australian side of the border. 
-Western Australia did have theirs sealed, yes, but they did so also with some assistance. We had places like Woomera, with the rocket range, a place of national and international importance, where we did not even have a sealed road. That was one of the most dangerous roads on which one could ever travel. Heavy transports travelled on it, there was a problem with bull dust, and numerous deaths were caused on that road by the dirty, dusty, dangerous conditions. One could go on talking about these areas, but I come back to what I asked the Minister earlier. Can he give me a specific answer as to why funds in excess of the recommendations made by the Bureau of Roads have been allocated this year, and what will be the position in the future? Perhaps it will not be as it is this year. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Primary School atKatherine South, Northern Territory. 
-I direct my question to the 
Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport. Is he aware that crude oil supplies for the South Australian refinery at Port Stanvac are being held back because tankers are not allowed to discharge their crude oil until the refinery's crude oil feedstock is down to less than 24 hours supply? Is the Minister also aware that in the process of holding both the refinery and the people of South Australia to ransom it is costing some $US 12,000 a day for each day the ships are delayed at berth? There have been up to 3 tankers at one time being delayed for days before being allowed to discharge their cargo, which adds greatly to the cost of crude oil. Is the Minister aware that this ban by the Seamen's Union of Australia on the unloading of tankers is due to the demands of the union to place the tanker  Howard Smith  on the overseas crude oil run? Is it a fact that to do this would increase the cost of shipping crude oil to Australia by an amount that would be equivalent to a subsidy of some $40,000 per annum for each seaman on the  Howard Smith': 
I present the following petition from 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of northern and central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
Lord Graham as Minister of External Affairs and Defence has said: 'International communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and majority rule is no more than a smokescreen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa . . . It is even difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies and even much of its learning . . . ' 
That Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years, and Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25 000 are dominating nearby Angola, and possess modern missiles etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe common justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present Government of Rhodesia to Australia, to do what they have been deprived to do previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia 's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitioners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Is it a fact that the reduction of lead additives in petrol would reduce its efficiency and increase petrol consumption in terms of litres per hundred kilometres? Is the Minister aware that research overseas on the bagging or trapping of lead in exhaust emissions, which will reduce pollution is in an advanced stage? Can the Minister state what research is being conducted in Australia in regard to exhaust emissions? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="073232197706032_51_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197706032_51_5.jpg"></graphic>

Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I present the following petition from 1 343 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members or the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned Meat and Livestock Producers of New South Wales respectfully request that the States House set up a suitable Committee of Review to consider the State rights of Meat and Livestock Producers. 
Your petitioners humbly request that the Senate specifically investigate the following matters and determine if- 
Meat and livestock producers in all States and Territories of Australia cannot be adequately represented by the new Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation legislation. 
The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation is subject to unnecessary domination by the Federal Government through the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The Producer Consultative Group established hy regulation is unduly subject to party political pressures. 
The Australian Meal and Livestock Corporation should be given powers to trade on the home market allowing the States and Territories to approve enabling complementary legislation. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that the needs of Meat and Livestock Producers of Australia will in no way jeopardise other citizens in the meat industry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to an answer I received to a previous question in relation to military decorations given by the United States of America and the former government of South Vietnam to Australian servicemen while on active duty in South Vietnam. Will the Minister reconsider the position which he stated, namely, that the rules for the wearing of such decorations are based on regulations laid down by the British authorities? Will he amend the present arrangements so that such decorations can be worn by Australian servicemen? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. Following reports that Australia intends to declare a 200-mile fishing zone around Australian coastal territories, is it not a fact that there will be a great need for research into marine biology in these extended waters which could give a reliable assessment of the fishing potential and result in further encouragement for the establishment of an Australian fishing fleet? Will the Minister have discussions with the Minister for Primary Industry in relation to an expansion of marine research into these external waters, including the waters adjacent to the Antarctic? As the lease of ships servicing the Australian base in the Antarctic will expire in a few years, will the Minister consider the purchase of a ship which could service the Antarctic base and also be used for marine research, particularly during those periods of the year when it is not required for the Antarctic service run? 
-I direct to the Minister for Science a question concerning the recent infestation of the spotted alfalfa aphid which is destroying so many lucerne pastures in many parts of Australia. 
Opposition supporters- Oh! 
I add as an aside to this question that we hear much laughter from the other side of the Senate. Anybody who is interested in the rural side of Australia should show deep concern about the damage that this pest is doing to pastures. Because of my concern I ask the Minister: Can he state whether any inquiries have been made as to how this pest entered Australia, and what research is being carried out into the eradication of this pest? 
We are debating today one of the most important issues that has come before the Senate for a long time. Let me hasten to add this is not the first time we have had a debate in this chamber on the matter, nor is it the first time there has been a debate in the Federal Parliament because there have been four debates in the House of Representatives. In the last 12 months we have received two very detailed and comprehensive reports. I refer to what I call Fox No. 1 and Fox No. 2. The first deals with the general aspects of the mining of uranium and the usage of uranium, and the second deals primarily- I emphasise 'primarily'- with the environmental aspects of the mining of uranium in relation to the Ranger mine in the Northern Territory. 
I listened to  Senator Douglas  McClelland today. I listened with great interest to what he had to say. He referred to the recent federal conference of the Australian Labor Party and the decision that it reached. I was surprised to see the conference come down with a firm decision. I saw reports that it was only a 45 -minute debate. I will not enter into or encourage any controversy with regard to the time, but I say with great respect to members of the Opposition that I think it was unfortunate that that conference came to a decision because there are members of the Opposition who hold differing views to the policy to which they are now tied. I think this is most unfortunate. I would hate to see it on this side of the House because what I want to see is a good, full, solid, open and constructive debate. There may be members on my side of the chamber who have differing views from me. I do not know. By the end of the debate we will know. I know that we can debate this issue very freely. 
Comment was also passed- critical comment -in relation to the Government, that it has no policy of consistency. I think they were the words used. I have taken notice of the change in the stance of the Australian Labor Party from the time when  Mr Whitlam  was Prime Minister of this country. I have also taken note of the fact that part of the decision reached at the recent federal conference of that party was that it will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australia 's uranium '. It is interesting to note in Fox No. 1, as I call it, the original report of the Fox Committee dealing with the Ranger proposal, the third paragraph of chapter 2 at page 9 states: 
According to a memorandum of understanding between the co-venturers, dated 28 October 1975, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC) will provide 7214 per cent of the capital required for the project and Peko and Electrolytic Zinc 133/4 per cent each. Two directors will be appointed to Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd by the AAEC - 
Let me say this is a government operation- and one each by the two companies. 
I emphasise this: 
The memorandum gives the AAEC responsibility for all future sales of yellowcake from the mine. 
I refer now to the memorandum itself. I refer to clause 2, sub-clause (d) which states: 
Australia, Peko and EZ shall do all things necessary to enable the objects of the joint venture to be achieved. 
Let me emphasise again that this is a memorandum of understanding between the Whitlam Government and the two interested parties in the Ranger project. Clause 4 states: 
This Committee - 
Referring to the Ranger Project Committee- shall be responsible for making certain fundamental policy decisions such as cessation, curtailment or suspension of construction or operation of the Project and major expansion of treatment plant capacity. 
I emphasise these words: 
The decision of the committee shall require a unanimous vote. 
It is most interesting to note that this was a memorandum of understanding between the then Government and the companies concerned in the Ranger inquiry. That memorandum came out well before the first Fox report. Yet this recent conference of the Labor Party resolved that the Party will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australia's uranium. I wonder if they spoke to the Ranger group. I wonder whether the Australian Labor Party has taken into consideration the previous arrangements that it made with the Ranger group when Labor was in government. It is most fascinating to hear the 
Labor Party talk, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland did today, about a policy of inconsistency. Perhaps he and other Labor Party members should look at what was said previously by their party. To take the matter a little further, I refer to a Press report as recent as 5 February 1975 which states: 

 Mr Whitlam headed off yesterday a move within his party to bring the development of the Australian mining industry to a standstill.  Mr Whitlam  warned that the move could force the cancellation of contracts for the sale overseas of enriched Australian uranium and yellow cake. 
I emphasise the words: 
. enriched Australian uranium and yellow cake. 
The report continued: 
A contract had already been completed for the sale of yellow cake to Japan and his Government was negotiating for the sale of uranium in Europe. 

 Mr President, I could refer to other Press statements of more recent time which report discussions that were being held with regard to an enrichment plant in South Australia. Let me go further. Comment was passed about the possibility of the Australian Government having dealings with France for the sale of uranium. I remind the Senate that there were reports at one stage that  Mr Whitlam,  as Prime Minister of Australia, was having discussions with the French and the Japanese with regard to the financing and establishment of an enrichment plant in Australia which would involve an investment of $2,000m. That plant was possibly to be in South Australia. It is important that people be reminded of these facts. I grant that people have the right to change their minds; but one also has the right to be curious as to why minds have been changed. I will leave my comment on that basis. 
I wish to refer also to the inconsistency of the Premier of South Australia. For a long time we have been hearing that the hope in South Australia was that an enrichment plant would be established there. We have heard talk of an investment of $2,000m. We heard of discussions taking place between the then Minister for Mines in South Australia,  Mr Hopgood,  the then Federal Labor Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  and the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  As recently as February of this year in answer to questions in this place the relevant Minister has said that the State Labor Government in South Australia was still having discussions with departments in Canberra with respect to a feasibility study for the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia. Suddenly, by March, the tide had turned, for some unknown reason, and we found opposition to that proposal. I should not say that this occurred for some unknown reason, as we know the reason why the tide suddenly changed. Pressures were put on  Mr Dunstan  within his own party. 
As  Senator Jessop  says, by the extreme Left. If we are to talk about inconsistencies, we should mention what we find happening today in South Australia. The Premier of that State is still going ahead with feasibility studies for the establishment of an enrichment plant there. He is having discussions with the Western Mining Corporation with regard to a possible big mine in South Australia for copper mixed with uranium. Incidentally, if uranium is mined there, this on a value basis would be the equivalent of some 6 per cent of copper, which is a very good mine. Without the uranium mining, the financial return drops considerably. 
For the life of me, I cannot understand why the Premier of South Australia saw fit to second a motion at the federal conference of the Australian Labor Party in Perth last month proposing an indefinite moratorium in respect of uranium when he is still encouraging finance for exploration in South Australia centered on uranium and copper and is still pressing ahead with a feasibility study concerned with a uranium enrichment plant. 
An election was held in South Australia in 1970; the issue was the Chowilla Dam as opposed to the Dartmouth Dam.  Mr Dunstan  said then that he would be fighting for the Chowilla Dam. He made this a great election issue. After he had won back the premiership of South Australia at that election,  Mr Dunstan  admitted that, unfortunately, what he proposed to do was not possible because he had discovered that the terms of the River Murray Agreement prevented action by him which would result in the Chowilla Dam being constructed. Quite frankly, I think the uranium issue in South Australia is an exercise similar to the Chowilla Dam election issue. I challenge the Premier of South Australia to stand up and to state publicly why he is continuing to press ahead for a feasibility study concerning a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia when he believes and stands by the fact that in the next two or three years he will not support the mining of uranium in Australia and South Australia. 
What does  Mr Dunstan  fear?  Senator Douglas  McClelland quoted gallup poll figures today which show that support for the mining and export of uranium is down to 47 per cent. There has been a drop in support. By his own choice, the Premier of South Australia now has an election on his hands. He is seeking to make sure that his rating in the popularity stakes does not drop further. He is fearful of losing the support of people who may be opposed to the mining of uranium. That is what this is all about. It is another example of a jolly good Chowilla exercise, and the people of South Australia know what that means. 
We hear all sorts of arguments with regard to the pros and cons of the mining of uranium. We can be told of all sorts of policies, such as we have been given today by  Senator Douglas  McClelland who claimed that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to the mining of uranium. No matter what the Labor Party's policy is or what our policy is, we will not discourage countries from trying to obtain uranium or going nuclear because today we are living in the age of the nuclear reactor. Whether we like it or not, that is the position. It is not our choice; it has been the choice of other countries. Nuclear energy is the main energy source that they see to bridge the energy gap which has increased and has become more critical year by year. 
It is all very well for the Australian Labor Party to say that if Australia does not sell its uranium it will have an effect in so many ways on the world situation. I agree that if Australia does not sell its uranium its action will have an effect, but I believe that that effect will be quite the reverse of what the Labor Party claims. What the countries which are turning to nuclear energy want is a reliable source of supply of uranium. If they do not get a reliable source of supply of uranium, they will face not just an energy gap but a uranium gap which, in turn, will encourage fast breeders and plutonium. If we possibly can, this is what we want to avoid. 
At present Australia has 20 per cent of the known world reserves of cheap uranium. We have a moral responsibility to the world and especially to those countries which wish to buy our uranium under certain guidelines and conditions with which I will deal later. If we do not sell our uranium, we will encourage a plutonium economy. We will then be faced with the problems of plutonium storage and nuclear proliferation. Let us press on and support the mining and exporting of uranium to selected markets while still being responsible and avoiding the encouragement of fast breeder development throughout the world. 
We have heard a great deal said about coal as an alternative to uranium. We heard that argument today. Let us look at the economics of coal. 
If we turn to the use of coal we will have great environmental problems. I mention first the pollution of the outer atmosphere. It has been stated not by one scientist but by many scientists that the outer atmosphere could become so polluted that the temperature of the earth could increase by some 6 degrees- not in 5 or 10 years time but in the long term- and that this would lead to the melting of the ice caps. In this chamber before I have cited the fact that, if that were to happen, even a rise of 5 degrees would mean that there would not be one Australian capital city with the exception of Canberra that would be above the water level. 
One can move into other areas regarding coal as an alternative. Let me deal briefly with the economics of coal. One pound of coal equals some 12 SOO British thermal units and one pound of ordinary uranium is equal to 250 000 000 British thermal units. To put it another way: In volume, a pound of uranium is equal to some 20 000 pounds of coal. So we have to look at the physical aspect of trying to handle this much coal-not in Australia because we will not need a nuclear reactor here in the foreseeable future, but in countries overseas. We are talking about their problems and what they need. It is all very well to talk about the economics of coal but we should realise that in Europe today coal costs in excess of $50 per ton. We in Australia have cheap coal. Our coal averages less than $10 per ton. So let us look at things realistically. Let us look at things through the eyes of people overseas. We will find that there are great limitations involved in using coal. Also, if coal were to be used there would be great risks to the environment. Physically and economically they are prevented from using coal. When comparing a coal fired thermal generator with a nuclear generator of the same capacity, let us remember that there are 1 1 times more deaths in the coal industry than in the uranium industry. Perhaps some honourable senator on the other side of the chamber could bring up other figures but these are the figures given to me by responsible people. So one must discount coal. 
One must consider the economics for consumer countries overseas. They are concerned about their economics and the instability that will follow unless they can fill this energy gap. We have had a Japanese delegation to Australia. We have had Japanese trade unionists in Australia appealing to unionists in this country to mine and export uranium because they know what the needs are in Japan and they are concerned about them. As mentioned today, we have had representations from the Philippines and other countries. We have had many people from Europe appealing to Australia on this matter because we have 20 per cent of the world's known reserves of cheap uranium and we would be a reliable source of supply. Those factors should be noted because if we have a continuing increase of 3.5 per cent per annum in the consumption of energy the world will use nearly  2y,  times more energy up to the year 2000 than has been used in all previous time up to 1975. Even though we can cut back on the use of energy to some extent, there is a limitation on how much we can cut back. Whichever way we look at it, there will be an increasing demand in consumption of energy throughout the world because of industrialisation and the development of so many countries. I repeat that when one talks about the nuclear energy age into which we have entered, one must remember that today there are some 46 countries which have nuclear reactors. They have 1 80 nuclear reactors with another 300 under construction and a further 300 planned. There may be suspicion by some people regarding countries adopting this stance in an effort to fill the energy gap. There may be criticism of some countries; I am not criticising them. Switzerland, which internationally has been regarded as a symbol of peace, with its white cross- from which the red cross originated- today has three nuclear reactors with another three under construction and another five planned. 
Then there are the dangers of radiation. No country knows them better than Japan. Yet Japan, with a history of two nuclear bombings and the horrors that they caused, has 13 nuclear reactors with another 1 1 under construction and a further 64 planned. Is it any wonder that the Japanese want our uranium? They have an energy gap that has to be filled. They know what happened with the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries a long time ago. They know what happened to oil prices and supplies, so they have turned to what they consider is the safest and surest method of filling that energy gap. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development group of countries are rapidly turning to nuclear power. Figures I have show that the share of nuclear power for electricity requirements in the OECD countries in 1985 will be 20 per cent; by the year 1990 it will be 27 per cent and by the year 2000 it will be over 40 per cent. We have heard a lot about the dangers of nuclear reactors. I challenge anybody on the other side of the chamber or this side of the chamber to cite a reported case of any death as a result of a commercial reactor. I have looked for such a report and I cannot find one. My information is that there has not been such a death and that the hazards involving nuclear reactors are very low in comparison overall with coal. 
I have dealt with the economics of the whole thing. Much has been said about waste disposal and the concern about it. Yes, there are grave problems regarding waste disposal in the past. The great majority of those problems have been created more by the United States Army than by anyone else. They did not handle the waste as well as they should have, because of a lack of technology and a lack of encouragement of technology at that stage as the concentration of effort was in other directions. But today a lot of research has been done in this area. There have been great technological advances with regard to the handling and storage of waste. This afternoon  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to solidification or vitrification of the waste. This is now regarded as a fact of life. The French have stated that by 1981 they will be handling this waste commercially. This  gratification  of waste brings it down to a very solid form. It is practically insoluble and is very stable and, to quote the French, 'easy to store'. This solidification is being carried out not only in France, but in Germany, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. As I said, France will be handling this waste commercially by 1981 and the other countries claim they will be doing so by the early 1980s. 
There are other areas of concern with waste disposal related to the fast breeder reactor and plutonium. I emphasise the point that this is one area that does concern all countries. Today Russia, which is not a signatory to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty but which is a member of the international atomic energy agency, is working like fury with other countries to see what can be done to establish international banks to handle plutonium wastes which come as a result of fast breeders. This is the concern at the present time. The other is still a concern because of the great amounts of liquids that are still being held in storage. But with the vitrification or solidification of wastes many of the problems regarding waste to a great extent will be overcome so long as a normal, common sense security goes with it. 
Having referred to the aspect of plutonium, let me turn to proliferation. Whether or not we sell uranium, enough countries today- some 46 countries have gone nuclear- could create dangers of proliferation. These dangers are far greater in a plutonium era than in normal atomic waste eras. I emphasise that. Let us have a look at the overall situation of a country if it wants to build a bomb. If a country picks up the waste from a normal reactor it is left with dirty, messy waste for which at present- I emphasise 'at present'- no country has totally perfected reprocessing. No country has as yet perfected reprocessing. I stand corrected if anybody in this chamber can contradict me. If a coastal state wishes to build an atomic bomb all it has to do is use uranium in sea water. If the country which wishes to build an atomic bomb has shale rocks it has any quantity of uranium at a price. It is dearer; but it is there. If a country has the necessary ability it has a source of uranium at a price. 
One can go on in this area of terrorism: Individual groups do not need atomic bombs for terrorism. It is more a national problem, particularly if atomic bombs are to be built. I ask honourable senators to show me a country where a terrorist group can develop an atomic bomb from nuclear waste. It would need a fair bit of plant to do so. In thinking of ways for terrorists to operate one is reminded of what happened in New York a few weeks ago with the electrical blackout. There are easier ways for terrorists to operate, such as poisoning water, blowing up transformers or sub-stations, or so many other things. Whilst I do not discount for a momentlet me make this clear- the problems of proliferation, let us not get carried overboard. There are other methods by which terrorists can operate. 
The greatest problem the world is facing with regard to filling the energy gap by nuclear reactors, as I said, is the fear of a shortage of uranium.  President  Carter put forward a proposition to the world that, because of the concern regarding fast breeders and because of the concern about reprocessing directly related to the operation of fast breeders, all further research in those two areas should be stopped.  President  Carter was not successful for the simple reason that countries themselves expressed concern that there would be a uranium gap and as such there was a need for them to turn to fast breeders. A fast breeder is estimated to be between 50 and 70 times more efficient than a normal nuclear reactor. Not only does it use a lesser amount of uranium but also in the process of operation it virtually creates plutonium. Estimates are that in a period between 13 and 17 years a fast breeder will produce enough plutonium to establish a further fast breeder. So we have the problem of a surplus of plutonium, the very thing I mentioned when discussing the establishment of banks to hold this waste. This is what  President  Carter wants to stop. Unfortunately, because of the concern at the possible lack of supplies of uranium, many countries are still pressing ahead with research into the establishment of fast breeders and also with regard to reprocessing to get plutonium to use in those fast breeders. 
I mentioned earlier that I feel that we as a nation should export our uranium. The second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry which deals with environmental aspects states that under certain conditions of the environment we can export uranium. I interpret the second Fox report as a green light to the export of uranium. Let me refer generally to some of the areas covered by the report. The report stated that the social and cultural implications for Aboriginals of mining in the area was one of the most important elements to be considered in the decision on uranium mining. This is something to which the Government has given great emphasis. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made his views clear in this area. Let me quote from the  Advertiser  of 14 July of this year an address made by the Prime Minister at the National Press Club. He said: 
No decision will be made on mining until we are absolutely satisfied that the needs and interests of the Aboriginal people are safeguarded and that the environment is also fully protected. Decisions of this importance will not be decided overnight, nor should they. 
I heartily concur. Whilst I support the mining of uranium I also support the need for a thorough inquiry and discussion by the Government and those concerned to make sure that the socioeconomic well-being of the Aboriginals as well as the environment will be given serious consideration. These are things that the Fox report brought out. It stated that the release of both the radioactive and non-radioactive contaminants that would flow into the Magela Creek drainage system would only be done when there were high water flows so that none of the contaminants would be hanging round the banks. There would be a quick flush out to sea and the contaminants would then be gone. The tailings of any of the minings and the stockpiles of any of the lowgrade ores again would be placed in worked out mine pits. With the exception of perhaps the Pancontinental Mine at Jabiluka the Ranger project would be the only one that would go ahead at this time, not because of radiation hazards but because of the impact of perhaps too many workers in the area, particularly during the construction stage. On top of this, all rehabilitative work with regard to the environment would be done by the operators at their expense and also under certain standards which could be upgraded and subject to review the whole time. 
I have tried to be fair and deal with the major recommendations. The Ranger Inquiry concluded that if these recommendations and others were adopted the environmental consequences of mining could be kept within acceptable limits. I would like to quote very briefly two conclusions of the Fox report. The first appears at page 32 1 and reads: 
The Ranger project as proposed, and in the land use setting which was assumed, should not in our view be allowed to proceed. On the other hand, if the plan we propose is accepted, and the various matters we recommend in relation to it, and to the mining operation themselves, are carried out, the adverse environmental consequences of the proposal can be kept within acceptable limits. 
I emphasise the words 'within acceptable limits'. Page 324 states: 
The chief recommendation we propose concerning the Ranger project is apparent from what we have already said. If an adverse decision is not made on the basis of the wider considerations discussed in our First Report and summarised in Chapter 1 of this Report, the project should be allowed to proceed, but only in the circumstances stipulated in this Report and subject to the recommendations we make in it. 
I read out some of the recommendations earlier in general terms. I feel that I am not biased in any way in reading and interpreting the second report to say that it has given the green light if we abide by the environmental recommendations set down. Let me turn to the Fraser guidelines as I call them, guidelines which are far more stringent than those of any other country in the world, and far more stringent than  Mr Justice  Fox recommended in the first report. For the record they read as follows: 
The need to keep policy under review; careful selection of eligible customers for uranium; the application of effective International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards; bilateral agreements with customer countries; fallback safeguards; prior Australian Government consent in relation to reexport, enrichment and reprocessing; physical security; safeguards provisions in contracts; and international and multilateral efforts to strengthen safeguards. 
One could expand on the safeguards as set down by the Prime Minister, but because of the time factor I will confine myself to repeating that the safeguards as set down by the Prime Minister and the Government are the strictest and most stringent safeguards set down by any country. If we mine and export our uranium we will have the opportunity as one of the major suppliers of uranium to enforce our safeguards and guidelines overall because we can work in with other major suppliers such as Canada. The situation will be entirely different if we do not supply uranium to a world that has decided itself that it is living in a nuclear reactor age, a world that wants our uranium and a world which, if it cannot get our uranium, will continue to move rapidly towards the establishment of fast breeders with the consequent plutonium era. I feel that if we were to encourage this we as a nation would have a lot to answer for. As I see it, it is our responsibility to mine our uranium and to supply uranium responsibly under the guidelines as propounded by the Prime Minister to many of those countries that have committed themselves to a nuclear age. If we do this we can then hope to delay the establishment of fast breeders and plutonium and perhaps fill the energy gap until such time as solar energy, a wonderful renewable source of energy, can take up the slack and continue filling the energy gap, which, if it is not filled, will grow greater and greater because of the continuing demands of an expanding society throughout the world. 
-Is the Acting AttorneyGeneral aware that in June of this year the South Australian Attorney-General,  Mr Duncan,  broadcast by tape to the Fretilin forces in East Timor over an illicit broadcasting station near Darwin? What is the position of a Minister of the Crown, particularly an Attorney-General, who is regarded as the first law officer in a State, who purposely flouts the law by knowingly broadcasting over an illicit radio, even though he states that he did it 'as a private individual'? 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question which relates to the arrival occasionally of Vietnamese refugees on the north-west coast of Australia. What steps are being taken by the Government regarding quarantine of the refugees and any of their possessions to prevent the possible entry of any diseases into Australia? 
We have just listened to a speech which one is used to and expects to hear from  Senator Gietzelt.  The main thrust of his argument again has been that 'profit 'is a dirty word and that private enterprise is something that should not exist within a society such as ours. I remind  Senator 
Gietzelt firstly that this country was developed by private enterprise and hard work, and, secondly, that in the postwar period the great developments and expansion that took place in secondary industry took place because of investment by private industry and its encouragement of initiatives. It was not until 1972, when we saw a change of government which brought with it a change in philosophies and which not only said that 'profit' was a dirty word but also embodied this belief in its legislation, that we saw a great downturn and concern within industry generally in this country. I was glad to hear  Senator Gietzelt  say what he did because whilst members of the Australian Labor Party such as  Senator Gietzelt  continue to criticise the Government and its Budget, keep hammering away with the assertion that 'profit' is a dirty word and assert that they do not like private enterprise, I hope that more and more people will hear this. They have had a taste of what attitudes are all about when the Labor Party puts them into policy. The people of Australia showed clearly what they thought about the policies pursued during the three years that the Labor Party was in office. 
The present Budget still maintains and reinforces the economic strategy that the Government introduced when it first came to power and which it has consistently pursued over the last 1 2 months. I refer particularly to the aspect of inflation and also to the huge deficit which gradually grew in this country from 1972 onwards. The 
Government has stuck rigidly to its targets. The Government is succeeding with regard to inflation, no matter what  Senator Gietzelt  says. The Government is also succeeding in reducing the huge deficit. Inflation this year has been down to an average of some 10.2 per cent. In the last two quarters of this year the inflation rate was calculated to be 10 per cent a year. Honourable senators should compare this with the previous year, 1 975-76, when there was an inflation rate of some 12.3 per cent. In 1974-75 the inflation rate was some 16.9 per cent. I think the Government should be given every encouragement and congratulations. The record shows clearly that it is achieving the target it set out to achieve- the reduction of inflation. 
The Budget deficit this year is some $2,700m. When this Government came to office the deficit which the Labor Party had achieved for 1975-76 was some $4,500m. Budget outlays for this year are only 10.4 per cent higher than they were in 1976-77. This is an improvement of 24 per cent on the increase in outlays for 1975-76. This can be compared with the 46 per cent increase in outlays when the Labor Party was in power in 1974-75. It is all very well to go on and on spending money as though money was something that grows on trees. This was something the previous Government did not learn until too late in its life. By then so much of the damage had been done. I commend the Government for what it is doing in what it said would be its two prime target areasthe reduction of inflation and the reduction of the huge deficit that the Government inherited. 
The Government also restructured taxation. We have heard criticism today. No doubt we will hear more. The restructuring in itself will provide a stimulus for consumer spending. It will also, I hope, ease excessive wage demands because it will allow a great deal of the work force to take home more in terms of real wages. This to me is very important. When the new taxation scheme is introduced it will encourage further incentives to work. 
One factor that concerns me and the Government very much is the high level of unemployment in Australia at present. But I am concerned that many people at present who are receiving unemployment benefits quite frankly are abusing the system. We know that. Some people just do not want to work. We have to make sure that those who are genuinely out of work will be given full support. This is essential. I would like to see some type of scheme introduced by the Government whereby the genuine can be sorted out from those who are not genuine. It is all very well for members of the Opposition to smile when I say that. Deep down they agree with me that a lot of people in the community today prefer to live on unemployment benefits rather than go out to work. 
I would like to see some sort of works scheme for those who have been on unemployment benefits for a long time. For example, there could be part time community work- I refer to old folk 's homes and so many other things- whereby these people could be paid for work done. We know what is happening at present. We hear many reports of people who may work for six months and then go to Surfers Paradise and other places for another six months while on unemployment benefits. This is going on. 
-It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to say that. If they are honest, they will stand up and agree with what I am saying. There is a difference between the genuine unemployed and those who do not want to work at present. These people are costing the taxpayer a lot of money and discouraging many genuine workers in this country. 
I would like consideration to be given also to a voucher system whereby people who have been unemployed for a long time and have not given satisfaction when they have obtained employment- I do not intend this system to operate immediately a person is out of work- will get a certain amount of benefit in the form of vouchers for their food and clothing instead of receiving total cash benefits. Therefore these people will not have the same amount of ready cash as at present. I hope that the Government will look very closely at this matter. I feel desperately sorry for the genuinely unemployed. These people themselves become concerned because they have to stand up amongst other people who do not want to work in our community. 
As I said earlier, the Government's economic strategy has been working. It should continue to encourage and restore business confidence and consumer confidence which have been lacking for quite some time. The Government cannot do all alone. It is a case for united effort by all people within this country. At this point I wish to refer to some of the radical sections within our trade unions. I fully support the trade union movement and agree wholeheartedly that the average worker in Australia is a good guy. I want to make this particularly clear. But we are still having industrial unrest in this country. I refer to the recent strike of 37 days at Mt Newman which cost something like $42 m in lost iron ore production alone. It also damaged the trading confidence between Australia and Japan. I refer to the Seamens Union of Australia ban on foreign oil tankers at Australian oil refineries which has gone on for a long time over the demand that a certain ship, the  Howard Smith,  should be an Australian flag tanker on the overseas run for crude oil. This ban is costing approximately $12,000 a day every day that ship is held out of port and not delivering its crude oil to refineries. Let us look at another aspect. If that ship were to go on the overseas run as an Australian manned tanker, the increased cost of shipping crude oil to Australia would amount to the equivalent of a subsidy of some $30,000 a seaman per annum for every member of the  Howard Smith  crew. That is what the action would cost. It is unfortunate that what is happening in some sections of this country is that we are tending to cost ourselves out of jobs. 
I wish to turn very quickly to the economy of South Australia and to refer to a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Uren,  when he addressed the South Australian State Labor Conference on 13 June this year. He said: 
Now the foreign-owned companies are moving to rationalise their production and distribution structures and as a result, the interests of the people of this State are threatened. 
There will be strong moves to transfer productive capacity from South Australia to the eastern states, and in some cases they will be moving overseas. Some are already doing this. 
The South Australian work force is dependent on keeping a strong manufacturing base. 
I agree with what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has said, but for different reasons. Costs in South Australia today are now virtually as high or in many cases higher than they are in other States. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted. Debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was commencing to deal with the economy of South Australia. I referred to a statement made by  Mr Uren.  Businesses are moving out of South Australia. There is no doubt about it. They are moving out because South Australia no longer has the cost advantages that it previously had. Whereas in the past we had a freight disadvantage, we did have cost advantages. But today in South Australia costs are virtually as high as, and in some cases much higher than, those in other States. For example, premiums for workers compensation in South Australia rose by more than 90 per cent between 1973 and 1975. They rose a further 39 per cent in the year 1975-76 and a further 20 per cent in the year 1976-77. Payroll tax has doubled from 2V4 per cent to 5 per cent. State taxation has increased, on a per capita basis, more than in any other State in Australia. So one could go on. 
I wish to refer briefly to the statement made tonight by the Leader of the Government,  Senator Withers,  concerning the green light being given to the development of the North West Shelf gas reserves. This will be a great boost to Australia and to Western Australia. It will bring a great deal of employment and revenue to this country. There has been some criticism tonight of this statement. Perhaps  Senator Douglas  McClelland would say that it was constructive criticism in some areas, but I do not agree with him. It is all very well to express concernSenator Wright describes it as nit-picking- about perhaps 2 per cent more foreign investment, but we are looking at an investment in overall terms of perhaps $3,000m, an investment that is fraught with risks, including marketing risks. The companies concerned need all the encouragement and support they can get. Unless companies are prepared to accept those risks the gas that is in the north-west will not be an asset to Australia because it will never be brought onshore. I am pleased to note that the Government has given tax concessions and other concessions to encourage the development of this highly potential area for hydrocarbons. 
I am also very pleased to note that the Government has not agreed at this stage to a transcontinental pipeline because, quite frankly, it may never be necessary. We know of the potential of the Moomba-Gidgealpa fields. We know there are other structures as yet untouched, both in that area of the Northern Territory and in the south-west corner of Queensland. If a transcontinental pipeline were to be built from Dampier to Sydney and the eastern markets, it may not be necessary for a great number of years. Also, such a pipeline would be a disincentive to further exploration in the northern part of South Australia and the other areas I have just mentioned. Further, with the agreement by the Government for the exporting of natural gas to the various overseas markets, if this gas were to be exported from Sydney, there is a great risk that we would be confining ourselves to one market only and that would be the American market. The cost of that gas would increase greatly. It is estimated that the pipeline itself would cost in the vicinity of $ 1,500m- possibly nearer to $2,000m- which would have to be added to the transmission costs of that gas. We could be disadvantaging ourselves, firstly, for an export market and, secondly, risking that market as we would be confining ourselves to one market only when we have a potential market in Japan as well as in Europe and other places. 
Having spoken about gas in the Cooper Basin of South Australia, I wish to refer to the Redcliffs petro-chemical project, which unfortunately did not start many years ago when it could have, again because of the interference of the Whitlam Government. Now we find that a company, Dow Chemicals, has again expressed interest in the establishment of a plant at Redcliffs, which would cost in the vicinity of $500m. Discussions have taken place between the Federal Government and State Governments regarding the financing of the construction of a liquids pipeline, and many other aspects of the project such as wharf facilities and housing which altogether would be valued at another $250m. This project should be given every encouragement, not because it would be established in South Australia but because of its national importance. There would be benefits in the balance of payments and also for those Australian industries that would use the by-products of an established petro-chemical industry. Moreover, further stimulus would be given to exploration in this highly potential area. It is estimated that the Cooper Basin contains 9 per cent of the total proved and probably proved liquid hydro-carbon reserves in Australia, a fact that perhaps is overlooked by many people. There are approximately 49 million barrels of crude oil, 39 million barrels of gas condensate, 86 million barrels of liquefied petroleum gases and 123 million barrels of ethane in the Cooper Basin. All these liquids are known to be recoverable provided there is a suitable market for them. 
At the present time the Cooper Basin producers cannot meet their contractual obligations to supply gas to the Adelaide and Sydney markets without producing a very large proportion of these natural gas liquids to which I have just referred. This will still be the case even if all the gas dry fields which at present are being used are fully developed before these wet fields, some of which are very wet, are brought on stream. In the absence of such a market, the whole of the gas stream itself will be very costly. This could lead to an increase in the price of gas, both for Sydney and Adelaide markets because of the fact that there is so much liquid in some of the wells that will soon have to come on stream to meet the requirements of those two major markets. 
Liquid petroleum gas and ethane are being sold as part of this gas stream. Some of the heavier crudes and condensates are being used in the Cooper Basin for such things as boiler fuel. This represents a complete misallocation of resources. It is possible for the producers to sell both the ethane and the LPG as part of a gas stream. Unless we can get these gases separated from the wets and sell them at a higher price, there is no alternative but for companies to waste this very valuable asset by using a less productive method. I shall deal with that aspect a little later. 
The value of this gas, when sold as sales gas or fuel, at present is some $ 1 3m, but the actual market value as feed stock for a petrochemical industry is about $ 1 50m. That gives a good example of a wasted asset because at present there is no alternative but to use these liquids as gases. The absence of a petrochemical industry will exacerbate the whole problem. Eventually we may need a liquid pipeline to bring these heavier crudes down to the Adelaide market. If this is not done there will be no alternative but for many of these liquids, heavy condensates, to be flared off because as more and more gas is required and as more and more of these wells are brought on stream, naturally these wet gases will have to be scrubbed. So there will be a great volume of liquids which at present cannot be pumped down the pipeline because the pipeline does not have the capacity to cope. 
So we have two alternatives: Either a pipeline has to be built or companies will have to flare off a very valuable asset. Ethane, sold as natural gas, commands at present only $2 1 per tonne, but if it were used as a petrochemical feedstock it would obtain a price of more than $100 per tonne. This in turn would bring greater benefits because it would result in higher royalty and tax payments by the producers. Also, from the national point of" view, it would give a more efficient use of this very valuable asset. The company concerned with the proposed petrochemical industry at Redcliff in South Australia proposes to construct a world scale plant capable of producing chlorine, caustic soda, ethylene dichloride and other petrochemical products for use in plastics and other industries. The plant would utilise this very valuable ethane, propane and butane from the Cooper Basin and, of course, salt from Lake Torrens, which is not so far from the proposed site at Redcliff. The salt would be pumped down in liquid form close to the petrochemical industry. 
To give some idea of the demand for caustic soda in Australia I point out that at present we are importing nearly 80 per cent of our requirements. In 1975-76 some 460 million tonnes of caustic soda were used in the bauxite and aluminium industry alone. The import price amounted to some $51m. The Australian demand for caustic soda is expected to be more than 800,000 tonnes per annum in the early 1980s. If the proposed alumina projects or bauxite projects go ahead in Western Australia and elsewhere, an additional 350,000 tonnes per annum of caustic soda will be required. Of course, the Redcliff project could go a long way towards meeting this demand. It is estimated that by the early 1980s we can expect a shortfall in annual domestic production of some 125,000 tonnes of ethylene dichloride and a further 100,000 tonnes of polyethylene. So we can see that this plant would help to overcome these shortfalls. On top of this, it would result in a great saving in the balance of trade. Overall the petrochemical industry would lead to a reduction in our imports of caustic soda and other petrochemical products. The import savings resulting from domestic caustic soda production alone are expected to be in the vicinity of some $64m per annum. The foreign exchange benefits from both import and export replacement from Redcliff is estimated to be some $320m per annum. 
I mentioned earlier that Lake Torrens is very close to Redcliff. I also mentioned why I wholeheartedly support Redcliff as a site for a petrochemical industry. Redcliff has a number of geographical and other advantages over many other proposed sites in Australia. One advantage is the very close proximity of the plant to the Cooper Basin from where the liquids could be piped. Also, as I said earlier, it is very close to Lake Torrens for a supply of salt, of which great amounts are required for a petrochemical industry. It is also sited on a deep water channel, again very close to a current pipeline that goes down to the Adelaide market. More importantly- and perhaps I should have put this at the top of the list- a great deal less expenditure will be required for infrastructure at this site as adequate road, rail, power and fresh water facilities already exist in the area. 
 Concern is expressed sometimes about the establishment of such a petrochemical industry but many environmental impact statements have been carried out in relation to this complex. These were carried out earlier when everybody hoped to see the establishment of a Redcliff plant. Unfortunately, because of certain attitudes of a previous government, the Redcliff project was stood over. But all of the studies done with regard to the environment have come out with a very clean bill of health. I emphasise that such a plant would make a great contribution, not just to South Australia but to Australia. It would also encourage decentralisation which is so badly needed in South Australia. It would be a further stable industry in a very important area of South Australia, and I refer to Spencer Gulf, where a great number of people would be employed in the industry. It has been estimated, for example, that some 3,500 people would be employed during the construction of such a plant and that overall some 700-odd jobs directly related to the petrochemical industry plant would be involved. The plant itself would be capable of supporting a community of some 4,000 people. The expansion of production at Moomba and at Lake Torrens would have a great impact upon employment in this very important area of South Australia. 
There is need for another petrochemical industry in Australia. There is a great need for encouragement of exploration. Incentives should be given for exploration in the CooperGidgealpa area and other areas, and to Redcliff because of its proximity to the area of exploitation of gases at present. Because of the need to use the liquids from these gases and not to waste such valuable assets, we should be giving all the encouragement we can to the establishment of a petrochemical industry in Australia. Frankly this exploration in South Australia should be encouraged because of the many factors I have referred to tonight. There is likely to be a shortage of gas in South Australia in the not too distant future, talking in reasonably long terms. The Sydney market is all right because there is a guarantee to supply the Sydney market from the Moomba-Gidgealpa areas until the year 2000. Quite frankly, South Australia was sold down the drain by the Dunstan Government when contracts were let to supply gas to New South Wales. South Australian consumers are in a tenuous position because their supplies are guaranteed only until 1987. Even then, of course, problems will arise when any more gas is found because when more gas is found the next 800 billion cubic feet of gas will go to New South Wales before any upgrading of guarantee is given to the South Australian market. 
Having emphasised this point, I again say that the establishment of such an industry would be of great benefit to the nation and also to South Australia. It would give great encouragement for further exploration in a high potential area of our State which must be continued but cannot be continued unless encouragement and incentives are given to companies to invest risk capitalcapital which could be lost but capital which, if it is fortunate enough to bring a return, not only will bring a return to a company but also will bring a great asset to the general community throughout this country. I hope that the Government will continue to have discussions with the South Australian Government. I hope that eventually we will see the establishment of such an industry in South Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I also direct a question on hijacking to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Would the Minister also consider placing before the Government a suggestion that any country which gives hijackers the right to land a plane at one of its airports for assistance or for taking refuge should be placed under economic sanction to further discourage countries from allowing hijackers to have some place in which to land a plane? The effect of this, coupled with capital punishment, would perhaps get us somewhere. I urge the Government to consider seriously leading discussions on this very important matter in the United Nations to see whether something can be done to protect innocent passengers throughout the world. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The questions read as follows- 

In answer to question 3 about the Loan Bill 1977, it was stated, inter alia, 'Government borrowings overseas help to finance the deficit but they have not- and would not- be undertaken primarily for that purpose. They are motivated primarily by the well established view that Australia should seek a moderate level of overseas capital inflow of both private and government account to supplement the resources available to the country for developmental purposes, and by general balance of payments requirements'. 
Does this part of the answer imply that as private capital starts to flow out the borrowing on government account should immediately start to increase- particularly with a managed exchange rate? 
Do the capital flow figures for June, July, August and September of this year show significant increases for the outflow of loan capital and a reduction in the inflow of equity capital? 
What were the reasons, in these circumstances, for delaying an announcement of overseas borrowings in order to maintain the ' moderate level ' of capital inflow? 
Are borrowings made overseas on government account used for 'developmental purposes' as well as 'general balance of payments requirements' as stated in the answer to question 3 (b) and what are those developmental purposes? 
What does the Government regard as a 'moderate level' of capital inflow and what are the criteria for determining what is ' moderate le :ve ' of capital inflow. 
Does the Australian Government have a target rate of growth for M3 for 1977-78 and, if so, what is that target? Is adherence to maintaining that target rate of growth of M3 an integral part of government policy? 
On the basis of the outlook for 1977-78, set out from pages 31-37 of Statement 2 of the 1977-78 Budget Papers, indicating that there is no real prospect of sustainable recovery in employment and private sector activity, does the Government anticipate that continued raising of funds to finance the deficit by the issue of Treasury notes and bonds, without growth in M3 beyond Government target rates, will reduce liquidity and force up interest rates? 
Will the Government's announced assistance measures to the beef cattle industry, small business and youth unemployment increase budget outlays and consequently the deficit, and what implication does this have for the target rates of growth of M3? 

 - Mr President, I ask leave to continue my remarks later in the first reading on the Oilseed Levy Bill. 
-I appreciate that the Senate is debating a motion for the first reading of the Oilseeds Levy Bill. I am concerned that we have spent so much time in the Senate chamber this afternoon listening to one honourable senator dealing with the personality of another honourable senator. I ask leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of concern being expressed at some universities about the future of academic study leave? I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to a newsletter issued by the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations which is circulating on university campuses and in which it is alleged: 
It is known that some senior Cabinet members believe that academic study leave is an unjustified 'perk' and an excuse for a paid overseas holiday. 
Can the Minister assure the Senate that there is no truth in these rumours that the Government is intending to reduce study leave entitlements in universities or other tertiary institutions? 
The most significant point that has so far arisen in this debate is that the Australian Labor Party senators have done nothing but condemn the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) in totality- and I emphasise the word 'totality'. They have not admitted to any one thing in this Bill which could help their working comrades. They have not at any stage admitted any concern for the people who at the present time are being so terribly disadvantaged and whose lives are being disrupted by their husbands, being out of work. All they have done is to come out in total condemnation of the legislation. Quite frankly, they have given the impression that they are the lackeys of the bosses. 
The Government has taken it upon itself responsibly to bring in legislation to protect the rights and the freedoms of individuals in this country, and that includes members of the trade unions in this country who at the present time are bring tied down by so many of the radical shop stewards involved in some of the trade unions throughout Australia. I say at this stage, as has been said before by other honourable senators on this side of the chamber, that there are many good trade unions in this country. I support wholeheartedly the trade union movement. But I do not support some of those people within the trade union movement who are doing their best to destroy not only this country economically but also the trade union movement which has done so much for so many of the working people in this country. 
-It is all very well for  Senator Georges  to say that. What has happened in this country in recent times? One could refer to the oil tanker drivers dispute, the aircraft refuellers dispute, the air traffic controllers strike and the spot strikes of the building workers. On occasions concrete has been poured on building sites and the workers have walked off the job. 
That concrete has had to be chopped up afterwards, and that adds to the costs. All of those disruptions have taken place by key unions in key areas. One could go on and refer to the strike of the postal employees and the public transport employees. 
Let us consider the ban imposed at the present time by seamen on tankers coming to this country. That strike has been caused by their excessive demand to have one Australian tanker crewed by Australian seamen. We have in this country at the present time the dangerous situation of the unions banning the movement of tankers into port to replenish the crude oil supplies of refineries until the refineries are down to only a few hours of supply. That is the situation in the port of Sydney. That is also happening in the port of Adelaide, and that is affecting the Stanvac refinery in Adelaide. One could go on mentioning these things. Container cargoes have been locked up for ages. 
Then I could turn to the spot strikes that have taken place in the motor car industry. What have they cost over the years in terms of motor cars? What have they cost the industry? What are they costing our fellow Australians who buy a motor car today? These strikes add so much to costs within the industry? The tragedy today is that so many workers are locked into their own unions. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to groan, but that is a fact of life. We know that to be so in many cases. No longer is the union the servant of the worker; tragically we are rapidly reaching the stage where the worker is becoming the servant of his union. That development is entirely wrong. It is all very well to say that workers have their power. But what real power do workers have today within a trade union? If the stewards decide that a union is going on strike, what happens? How many innocent workers are forced out on strike even though they are opposed to going on strike? How many times have we had this said to us by our own friends who are involved in a union? They want to work. They say quite frankly that they are not able to work because they would be banned, ostracised and discriminated against by the union itself if they did so? That is a fact of life. Honourable senators opposite know that it is a fact of life because we all know of personal examples of this state of affairs. It is entirely wrong. 
As I said earlier, frequently people occupying key positions in key industries hold up a whole industry. We find that happening at the present time in Victoria. We have members of one industry who have been out on strike for some 11 weeks. What has this strike done? This strike in that period-a strike caused by some 2,000 workers- has resulted in some 400,000 to 500,000 workers being stood down. That in itself is bad enough. But what has this action cost industry? I repeat: What has it cost industry generally? When I refer to industry, I do not refer to industry in Victoria only. If people examine the figures today, they will find that people are being stood down in New South Wales and South Australia. Even if the strike finished tomorrow, further people would be stood down in those States because of the delaying effect of this strike in Victoria. 
Perhaps one of the greatest problems and tragedies is the fact that it has been estimated that some 2,900 workers could lose their jobs permanently because of this strike. We heard  Senator Wriedt,  who spoke before me, say that unemployment is a problem in this country and that the Government should try to do something about it. What are honourable senators opposite doing about unemployment? What is it doing to support this legislation? Nothing! What criticism has any honourable senator opposite made of the current strike in Victoria which is causing so much tragedy? I repeat that it could cause 2,900 people to lose their jobs permanently. Yet honourable senators opposite stand up here and have the audacity to say they are concerned about unemployment. What have they said about the families- the wives and childrenwhose lives are being disrupted at the present time? Nothing! All they have done today is to condemn totally the legislation. Honourable senators opposite have not even admitted that there is one iota of goodness in the proposition that the Government has put forward today. We are faced with a tragic situation. 
What about those workers who do not want to be out of work, who wish to go back and carry on working? I am referring to the honest, conscientious Australian worker. There are many of them in this country. The bulk of Australian workers are honest and conscientious. What will happen to the man who has been prepared to work overtime to earn some extra money to save up to buy something for his home, perhaps a new car, or has been saving for a holiday for his wife and children? All his savings are being eroded by this strike. How much concern has been expressed today by honourable senators opposite about these people? They have expressed no concern whatsoever. They are supposed to be representing what is called the labour component in this country. 
This clearly shows who honestly represents the workers in this country.  Senator Button  interjected that we were supposed to be the Government. That is what this legislation is all about. It is high time in this country that the shop stewards were made to realise that they are not the Government of this country but that the elected Government is the government of this country. It is up to the Government to govern and to give protection to the honest workers who need and want protection in this country. There is concern in the community today that the unions have too much power. It is interesting to note that a survey done by the Roy Morgan Research Centre in 1976 showed some very revealing figures. The proportion of trade unionists whose unions were affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions who believed that unions have too much power increased from 35 per cent in 1969, when the last survey was conducted, to 57 per cent in 1976. Amongst non-ACTU unionists the increase was from 43 per cent to 53 per cent. The honest working person in this country is concerned because the unions are losing control and because a few radicals have moved into key positions. I refer in particular to shop stewards who are disrupting the trade unions and also are destroying the benefits that have been built up over the years for the protection of their fellow workers. 
In the few minutes left to me to speak in this debate, I will deal with another area. I asked earlier: What do these strikes cost Australia? What do they cost industry? Already it has been estimated that 2,900 people could lose their jobs as a result of this power strike. Over the years, what effects have these disruptions had on costs? We are worried about unemployment but what has happened to our export trade at present? Today, we tend to export industry rather than goods. Why? This occurs for the simple reason that there are people today who are not prepared to invest in Australia, because they are concerned at the union situation in this country.  Senator Primmer  shakes his head. Recently I attended a working session of the European Parliament with parliamentarians in Europe. We were talking about trade, industrial development and investment in Australia. The key point in the conversation was that we have too much industrial unrest in this country. 
That is on the record. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to hoo-haa. But that is a fact of life. It is all very well for those who sit opposite to stand up and hoo.haa but they know themselves what strikes cost. They know themselves what dargs cost. They know what bans cost. We, as a government, at least are aware of this situation and are prepared to face up to these problems. We as a government are prepared to stand by the honest, decent working men and women of this country. We have introduced these amendments to the legislation to make sure that the rights of the working men and women of this country will be protected. If the Labor Party is not prepared to support us, we are proud to go it alone. We know that the electorate will be behind our propositions. I support the legislation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I ask whether he has seen or heard of reports in the Adelaide  Advertiser  that English courses for migrants in South Australia are being cut because of cuts in Federal Government finance for further education and that some courses are even being abandoned. What is the position regarding Federal funding and what are the respective Federal and State contributions in that area? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has considered the detail of the uranium mining agreement entered into between the Whitlam Government and the Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd partners- Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd? Is he aware that clause 4 of the memorandum of understanding provides that fundamental policy decisions relating to the project, including whether it should cease, be curtailed or be suspended, can be made only by the Ranger Project Committee, which shall consist of four members? Is the Leader of the Government further aware that this agreement, signed by  Mr Whitlam,  provides that the Committee shall comprise two representatives from the Atomic Energy Commission, one from Peko and one from EZ? Does the agreement require a unanimous vote of the Committee before decisions can take effect? How does this agreement line up with the Australian Labor Party's Perth Conference decisions? 
-I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and I refer again to the uranium issue. I ask: Has the Leader of the Government seen clause 8 of the Memorandum of Agreement signed in October 1975 by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, with other members of the then Labor Government, and the partners of the Ranger project, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd? If so, is it a fact that in this clause  Mr Whitlam  agreed to pay compensation to the companies, Peko and EZ, if Australia withheld sales of uranium from the Ranger projects? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Beef Cattle Research Works Laboratory at Rockhampton, Queensland, and Headquarters Operational Command at Royal Australian Air Force Station, Glenbrook, New South Wales. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do so following the complete turnaround of  Mr Whitlam  and the Australian Labor Party with regard to the mining of uranium. I ask the Minister whether he has seen paragraphs (g) and (h) of clause 2 of the Memorandum of Agreement that was signed by  Mr Whitlam,  as Prime Minister of Australia, in October 1 975, which states: 
The Ranger Project shall continue in force during the economic life of the uranium ore deposits in the Project area. 
There will be no royalties imposed in respect of the Ranger Project of a kind similar to the royalty that would have been imposed under a mining title granted under the Northern Territory Mining Ordinance. 
Is it not a fact that that spells out very clearly that the then Labor Government, under  Mr Whitlam,  was pressing for a full go-ahead for the mining of uranium and giving every encouragement and financial support to the mining partners, Peko 
Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd? 
This afternoon we listened again to a tirade of abuse from  Senator McLaren  upon  Senator Hall.  Whilst one does not accept this, one tends to some extent to become accustomed to expecting it. But the point that fascinates me is that these exercises have taken place only since  Senator Hall  decided to stand as the candidate for the South Australian seat of Hawker. No doubt between now and the time the Parliament, rises we can expect further tirades upon  Senator Hall.  It leads me to the conclusion that the Australian Labor Party is very fearful that  Senator Hall  will win the seat of Hawker. I leave people to draw their own conclusions about the exercise that is being conducted at the present time against  Senator Hall  as the candidate for the seat of Hawker 
I want to deal briefly tonight with one of the problems that is affecting the major cities in most countries. I refer to pollution and particularly to traffic pollution which is caused by the density of motor vehicle traffic today. Australia has not escaped this problem. The Government has seen fit to introduce legislation to enforce exhaust emission control on motor vehicles to reduce motor vehicle exhaust pollution. Of course, one of the problems we face in this respect is that whilst we obtain efficiency in regard to pollution control, we finish up with a great loss of efficiency in the motor vehicle engine. This loss of efficiency through exhaust emission control now being made compulsory has been estimated to be in the order of 5 per cent. Of course, this adds further to fuel consumption at a time when we are trying to conserve fuel. In addition, suggestions have been made that further environmental control should be introduced by reducing the lead content in petrol. In discussions I have had with the representatives of various companies I have been told that it could cost as much as Se a gallon of petrol if the lead content in petrol today were reduced. The companies themselves would be required to invest about $500m to modify their refineries to increase the quality or the octane rating of petrol as a counter to the reduction in lead content which, of course, leads to improved efficiency in the firing of the fuel. We face a problem in this area. 
I am very interested also to read that in Europe experiments are now taking place- we do not know whether they will reach a successful conclusion at this stage- in which it is hoped eventually to control exhaust emission of motor cars by the precipitation ofthe lead itself from the petrol. If those experiments were successful, it would be possible to use lead additives in petrol and not have the problem of polluting the atmosphere which concerns so many people today. We know that if we continue with our present rate of consumption of petroleum products, our indigenous crude oil supply will meet only between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of our requirements by the year 1985. Perhaps many people are not aware of the great volume of petrol that is used each day. Approximately eight million gallons of petrol- I am referring specifically to petrol in this case- is used each day in Australia. This is a terrific amount of fuel. One can see that there is a need to try to conserve our fuel supplies and our crude oil supplies in this country. 
I hope that the Government will give serious consideration to encouraging motorists to use liquid petroleum gas. Firstly, LPG is pollution free. Secondly, it has another great attribute of being far cleaner in engines than petrol. There is not the dilution problem or the problem of foreign matter getting into the oil. Therefore, the engine lubricating oil can last much longer. In addition, on a miles per gallon basis, the cost of petrol is about 40 per cent more expensive than the cost of liquid petroleum gas. Many problems exist in this area. At the present time, liquid petroleum gas is taxed. If the tax were removed, this could reduce the costs even further in the use of LPG. One of the great problems is the very small number of distribution points for LPG throughout major cities in Australia. No doubt, if demand increased, the service facilities also would increase. It costs between $500 and $600 today to convert a motor vehicle for the use of LPG. This is a great deal of money to convert one motor vehicle. I notice that the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  is in the Senate chamber tonight. I suggest that the Government should give serious consideration to reducing the sales tax on the equipment that is required to convert a motor for the use of LPG. Any such actions will give encouragement to motorists to conserve our very scarce- I use that word deliberately- petrol supplies in Australia today. Whilst we appear to have plenty of petrol today we know that unless we find more we will face, like the rest of the world, a critical shortage of crude oil within the next 30 years. 
I wish to move on now to the overall world energy shortage which we face and which countries throughout the world are facing. They are very conscious of the energy shortage. We notice that some 46 countries today are turning or have turned to nuclear power generation. Already some 180 nuclear reactors are operating in the world and hundreds are in the development or planning stage. In Australia there is a great deal of controversy on the issue of uranium. It is not the question of whether Australia will mine uranium that will decide what will happen in the world. On the contrary; the world has made up its mind that nuclear power generation is a reality and a necessity. These countries have made then- decision that today it is a nuclear reactor world. 
A few weeks ago I had the very pleasant experience, along with some of my colleagues, of having discussions with some European parliamentarians in Luxemburg. We sat down for an afternoon in a working session. One of the major issues under discussion was naturally that of uranium and the energy shortage. There was a complete mixture of politics amongst those parliamentarians from the various countries of Europe. They ranged from extreme socialists to right wingers, and even included communists. This is because some of the European parliaments have communist parliamentary representatives. But what fascinated me in these discussions on uranium and particularly upon the question as to whether Australia would sell uranium was that only two of the people in this group were anti-uranium. I will not mention the countries from which they came. One was a communist and the other one I could describe only as an extreme radical socialist. It fascinated me that a communist was opposed to nuclear energy. If we look at the situation in Europe today we find that countries such as East Germany have nuclear reactors. We know that Russia has numerous nuclear reactors. Yugoslavia has one under construction at the present time, and so on. But the thing that really came through loudly and clearly was the great and grave concern of the Europeans that there was an energy gap which had to be filled; that the only way in which that could be done in the interim, before fusion, solar energy or some other form of energy became available, was by developing nuclear generation. 1 was also very interested last week to have discussions with  Dr Mabon,  the British Minister of State for Energy, in the Labour Government of the United Kingdom, who came to Australia for the prime purpose of having discussions and endeavouring to get a guarantee that England will have available continuing supplies of uranium. In fact, as he has stated publicly, what England would like is a contract with Australia for 1,000 tonnes of uranium per annum during the years 1982 to 1997. When we work this out we see that England requires a terrific amount of uranium. The present Labour Government has sent its Minister out for discussions with our Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and, more importantly, with its counterpart in the Australian political arena, the Australian Labor Party, to see what can be done. 
I should like to quote some of the statements of  Dr Mabon,  a fascinating personality, a very genuine and highly intelligent person who has a great concern for his country and the problems that will arise if it cannot obtain a secure supply of uranium- something for which it is looking to Australia. He is reported in the Press as follows: 
At a Press conference on Thursday he said that Britain would be a very poor country by the end of this century without continuing nuclear power. Britain would like to buy 1,000 tonnes of uranium a year from Australia from 1982, when its present stocks ran out, until about 1 997. 
I quote further from the Press report: 

 Dr Dickson Mabon said on Friday that he thought the local party - 
This is the Australian Labor Party- would see the light and reverse its policy of barring uranium sales if it won office. He said that continued supplies of uranium from Australia were vital to Britain's future. 
I think that is the important part. This is backed by the United Kingdom union congress itself, the members of which I understand are 10 to one in favour of importing uranium and recently urged their Government to expand its nuclear program in order to avoid an energy crisis. If I could quote  Dr Mabon  a little further, he was reported as stating in  AM  on 28 October: 
What I said was that the Government's requests to us are perfectly fair and we can meet them on safeguards and nonproliferation and so on and we would therefore hope that we would be able to get a sustained contract, and as for the Labor Party and the trade unions, we would hope that they would see reason on this. If we could meet them then we would hope they would do the same as the Liberal Party in power. What I am trying to say to our- particularly our trade unionist friends in Australia, is they really must understand that uranium for us is extremely critical for the well-being of the working people in Great Britain. 
I emphasise that  Dr Mabon  said 'uranium for us is extremely critical for the well-being of the working people in Great Britain'. One can see the great need in the United Kingdom for uranium when one realises that the Labour Party Government in office in that country has sent its senior Minister in the energy field to us to plead not only for a sufficient supply, but also for the support of its counterpart, the Australian Labor 
Party, and the trade union movement of Australia. 
It is fascinating to see the turnaround that has taken place in a very short period of time in the attitude of the Australian Labor Party. To quote from  Hansard  of February 1975, at page 63, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam  said: 
In Brussels, London, The Hague, Paris, Rome and Bonn, as well as in Moscow, I consistently asserted Australia's wish to develop her own enrichment capabilities so that as much uranium as possible should be exported in an enriched form. 
This was what  Mr Whitlam  was saying in 1975: He was not merely supporting the rnining and exportation of uranium but was going further and was wanting to establish an enrichment plant in Australia. Of course, we know the history of that. We know that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  was having, and is now having, feasibility studies made in the hope that he can get such a plant for his State. Suddenly,  Sir, these  gentlemen have changed their minds. The reason is not in doubt. They had a 45-minute talk on the subject this year at their Federal conference and the left wing turned them completely around and changed their minds for them. I refer to the Leader of the organisational side of the Austraiian Labor Party, the Federal  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  At a fund raising lunch in Perth just prior to the ALP Federal Conference he said: 
I am not convinced as a matter of intellectual integrity of the arguments for leaving uranium in the ground. 
If we leave it in the ground we have done nothing about the dangers, the disposal of nuclear waste, about terrorists acquiring weapons, nothing about people occupied in the generating plants in West Germany, Japan and the United States. 
We have done nothing about that, except make it more expensive, and in the process, it seems to me what we have done is to forgo the opportunity as Australians to have a voice in safeguarding the world in the processes of the utilisation of uranium. 
Those were good words, powerful words, words that I support. 
They were words that were spoken by  Mr Bob  Hawke. That shows clearly what were the views of these men, who went so far in supporting uranium mining. Suddenly they have turned right around. 
I wish also to refer briefly to a Memorandum of Agreement that was signed by  Mr Whitlam  and the Government's partners on the Ranger project, Peko and EZ, in October 1975. There is not time to read all of it. However, there are a few salient points to which I would like to refer, to give the people some idea of what the attitude of the then Whitlam Labor Government was as late as October 1 975, and its views and intentions regarding the mining, exporting and even enrichment of uranium. Clause 2 of that Memorandum reads, in part, as follows: 
Australia, Peko and EZ shall do all things necessary to establish the objects of the joint venture to be achieved. The Ranger Project shall continue in force during the econoomic life ofthe uranium ore deposits in the project area. 
I emphasise the words 'economic life' because the then Labor Government was giving full and total support to the mining and exporting of uranium. 
This was signed by  Mr 
Whitlam. I quote further: 
There will be no royalties imposed in respect of the Ranger Project of a kind similar to the royalty that would have been imposed under a mining title granted under the Northern Territory Mining Ordinance. 
In other words, the Labor Government was giving them economic assistance, so keen was it to get the project established. I give it full marks for that. But suddenly there was a great turn around in the Labor Party. Clause 4 ofthe document is interesting also. It states: 
There shall be a Ranger Project Committee consisting of four members. Two members shall be appointed by the Commission - 
They would be the government members- and one member shall be appointed by each of Peko and EZ. This committee shall be responsible for making certain fundamental policy decisions such as cessation, curtailment or suspension of construction or operation of the Project and major expansion of treatment plant capacity. 
I repeat the words: 'expansion of treatment plant capacity'. But these are the operative words: 
The decision of the committee shall require a unanimous vote. 
I stress the words 'unanimous vote'. Where does that attitude stand with the Labor Party today? These are the questions which we must pose and which fascinate me and many people like me. Clause 5 (a) states: 
The treatment plant shall: 
be promptly constructed near the Ranger Number One ore body - 
I emphasise the words 'shall be promptly constructed'. Later paragraph (iii) of clause 5 (a) states that the treatment plant shall: be operated at optimum capacity consistent with good engineering practice and with sound commercial practice. 
Clause 5 continues: 
When commercially practicable the annual capacity shall be increased to 6,600 short tons of U,0 
Yes, it is per annum. Further on, in clause 6, the following is stated: 
The relevant proportions of contributions of capital from time to time including working capital shall be: 
The Commission-  12Vi  percent Peko- 13% percent EZ-13J4 percent 
The following appears also: 
There shall be no interest charges . . . 
How is that for encouragement, taking this with the collective basket of what I have previously quoted from this agreement indicating the encouragement that the then Labor Government was giving to this Ranger group to become established and to get the mining of uranium under way? Further on, clause 6 states:  . . Peko and EZ shall each - 
I stress the word 'each'- be entitled to receive the net annual proceeds of the sale of 25 per cent of the uranium concentrate produced by the Ranger Project. 
This means that whilst the Commission- in other words, the Government- was to hold  Vi  per cent of the shares, the Government was prepared to give the companies 50 per cent of the net proceeds. I am not being critical of this. What I am trying to point out is how keen the then Labor Government was to get this project off the ground and established. This is what fascinates me. A compensation clause, which gives further guarantees to the companies, was included in clause 8. Sub-clause (d) of that clause states: 
In the event that in the national interest Australia withholds from sale uranium concentrate produced by the Ranger Project, an arbitrator shall be appointed to decide what compensation, if any, but not exceeding world market price, should be given by Australia to offset the adverse financial effect on Peko and EZ resulting from this action. 
I stress the words 'compensation ... to offset the adverse financial effect'. Here again we see the then Government was doing all it possibly could to give encouragement and assistance to those companies to get the Ranger uranium project off the ground and under way. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  had made it clear and is on record in  Hansard  as saying that he had had discussions with other countries and had spelt out very clearly that the then Government's intention then was to have a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. He had discussions also with the French and the Japanese to see about participation in the establishment of that enrichment plant. That Government as late as October 1975 was saying these things and doing these things. The Dunstan Government in South Australia later than 1975-in fact, early in 1977- was still having discussions with the Department of Minerals and Energy in Canberra with regard to the feasibility of the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia. 
I pose the question to the Senate and to the people of Australia: Why has a Party which, when in government, was so actively involved in uranium mining, which conceded so much and gave so much assistance, encouragement and guarantee to companies which were prepared to mine and were desirous of mining uranium in Australia, suddenly turned around and taken a completely reverse stand following a 45 -minute debate in its Federal conference? There is no doubt about who twisted the tiger's tail, and it was twisted to the left. I hope the people of Australia will realise what the true situation is and the reasons why the Labor Party, when in government, did so much to encourage the mining of uranium when today it is opposed to it. Today we have the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons and guidelines have been set down by the Fraser Government. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and so many other countries are having serious discussions about the establishment of world banks. Yet the Labor Party today is opposed to the mining and export of uranium. 
What the Labor Party is doing in trying to block- it will not succeed in blocking-the mining and export of uranium from Australia is hastening the day of the fast breeder and the plutonium era. All I can say is that, if the Labor Party wants to bring tragedy upon the world, it can go its hardest, but I will not support its encouragement for fast breeders. Even Russia, a country which will not be a signatory to the nonproliferation treaty, is doing all it can as a nation in support of the establishment of world banks to handle plutonium from fast breeders because it is concerned that this is the material from which atomic bombs are built. Fast breeders breed plutonium; that is why they are called fast breeders. 
If we do not sell uranium, we will encourage the development of fast breeders in the world. The British Minister for Energy has made it clear, as have the Germans, the French and the Japanese, that they are concerned that there could be a uranium shortage. They are concerned that Australia might not export uranium and, if this were the case, they would have no alternative but to continue the search for methods to establish fast breeder reactors. All I can say is: Shame on the Labor Party if it wants the proliferation of plutonium in the world because that is the deadly weapon. We must avoid any such proliferation. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen reports that Sweden has banned beef imports from 27 abattoirs in all States of Australia? Can the Minister say whether these reports are correct? If they are, what volume and value of Australian beef is involved? What steps are being taken by the Government to avoid the loss of beef trade to Sweden? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of concern about alcohol abuse, as reported by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, and also in view of the heavy penalties imposed by all States on drunken driving to discourage excessive intakes of alcohol, will the Government give consideration to lowering the excise on low alcoholic beers as a disincentive to consume beers of higher alcoholic content? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister heard of reports that the exotic disease bluetongue has been discovered in the Northern Territory? Can the Minister state whether these reports are correct, and if so, what steps are being taken by the Government to eradicate this bad and very costly disease in the Northern Territory and to prevent it from spreading to the southern parts of Australia where so much livestock could be adversely affected? 
I ask you,  Mr President,  whether you have heard it stated that many of the staff of the parliamentary dining room yesterday refused to serve at the parliamentary luncheon for  His Excellency  the Governor-General and his wife? Is it not a fact that all members of the dining room staff, with the exception of one person who was sick, attended yesterday, served and did an excellent job, as they always do? Will you,  Sir, refute  these rumours which so badly malign the loyalty of the parliamentary staff? 
Following the comments made by  Senator Button  earlier in the debate I have one or two queries to raise, particularly in respect or proposed section 79d. Let me clarify my queries by saying that I support the concept of the Special Broadcasting Service whereby we can expand multilingual broadcasting services and television services as well as general public and access radio and television. My first query relates to proposed section 79d which states: 
The functions of the Service are- 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; 
I just wonder why the difference in the wording? I also want to know how much ministerial control there will be in this area. 
-I want to get this point clarified. I also draw the attention of the Committee to proposed section 79E(l)(d) which states: 
The Service may do all things that are necessary for the performance of its functions . . . 
acquire, accept or take on hire, or dispose of or let out, personal property . . . 
Then if one looks at proposed new section 79z ( 1 ) we find the following: 
There are payable to the Service such moneys as are appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of the Service. 
Proposed new section 79ZA states: 
The moneys of the Service shall consist of- 
the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of any property of the service . . . 
Here again I question the difference in language. I am a layman and not a lawyer and I would like some clarification of this. I would also like to know the definition of 'any property of the Service'. Does this include such tilings as buildings which may have been bought out of funds appropriated for the Special Broadcasting Service? Does it meant that that property could be sold? If so, why should it be this way? I wonder what the position would be if two individuals who may be irresponsible- it can happen, but it may notdecided between themselves to do this; if, having cashed in, they cashed out. 

 Senator Townley referred to proposed section 79ZA(d), which refers to 'program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister'. What actually will take place with regard to sponsorship? Am I to presume that some local identity or company will be mentioned as the company sponsoring a program for the next quarter of an hour, ten minutes, or whatever it might be, and that this will be tightly controlled by the Minister so that it can not get out of hand and become a commercial proposition? It will have to be watched very closely to make sure that there will not be competition in the commercial market with commercial radio and television. I support the whole concept of allowing the Special Broadcasting Service to have its areas of responsibility rather than, as  Senator Button  said, that it should rely solely on Treasury funds. It should be within its responsibility, with the assistance of Treasury funds, to do a lot of its own funding. This is a very important aspect. I ask the Minister whether in doing its own funding the Service will encroach into the commercial area to get finance to fund its broadcasting and television services. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: How closely does the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation work with special branches of the State police forces in Australia? Will the role of ASIO and Australian security and intelligence organisations generally be adversely affected both nationally and internationally if there is a breakdown in co-operation with any State security branch such as the special police branch in South Australia? 
-I rise to support the motion of condolence to the late former  Senator Ted  Mattner. Ted Mattner was not only a great friend but also a great Australian. I had the pleasure of knowing him for many years. I did not serve in the Senate with the late former  Senator Mattner.  By a quirk of circumstance I took his place in the Senate when he retired. 
As  Senator Wright  has said, Teddy Mattner was a great man. He served in the Australian Army in the 1914-1918 conflict. During that period he rose through the ranks, in the field, to a senior position as an officer in the Australian Army. But more than this, he became one of the most highly decorated men in the Australian Army during the First World War. When the conflict ended  Mr Mattner  wanted to go on and give further service which he eventually did when he joined the Australian Parliament and served in this place for a number of years. During that time he attained the position of  President  of the Senate. I became very impressed with  Mr Mattner,  or  Senator Mattner  as he was then known, because during that time he always remained a man of the people. Wherever one went one could see the valued friendships that had been made by  Senator Teddy  Mattner. 
Although former  Senator Mattner  retired from this place physically he still kept a very keen interest in the activities of Canberra. On many occasions he would come into my office, sit down and have a chat to find out what was going on in Canberra and to ask questions about the various people with whom he had had a long association. We all know that former  Senator Mattner  made a pilgrimage to this place at least once a year to renew many of those associations even though with the passage of time, of course, many of his older associates had left the Federal Parliament. 
Former  Senator Mattner  led a very active life in retirement and he lived to a very old age. He kept very active up until his death. He loved his family, he loved his garden and he loved the outdoors. As a matter of fact, his family told me that even a few days before his death he asked that he be put in a utility to be driven around the property. He still wanted to go to see his gardens, the fields and the places that he loved so much. 
Teddy Mattner was a great Australian. We are paying a tribute to his service and to his memory today. He will be remembered by many people both within and outside this place for what he did in service for his country. I join with the Senate in expressing condolences, particularly to his family- a great family and one which, right down to his grandchildren, loved Teddy Mattner as we did so much. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What are the powers of the Federal Government in relation to the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police Force? Who has responsibility for such matters as his appointment, suspension or dismissal? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. How does the Government see the need for uniform standards for wheat silos in Australia and also for airtight silos to assist in the control of weevil and other infestations in stored grain? What research and inquiries has the Government undertaken into grain infestation control, particularly in regard to airtight silos? 
-I rise with great pleasure to support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply because the Address is in reply to the Speech made by the newly appointed Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, who is an outstanding Australian and who did an outstanding job in this chamber last week when he made the Speech to members of both Houses of Parliament on the occasion of the opening of the new Parliament. I extend to him my congratulations on his appointment to this high office and also wish both him and his wife well during his term of office. I also congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech. No doubt she will find this place a most fascinating one and one that will bring her a great deal of experience even though her term in this place will be short lived because under the Constitution her term will expire on 30 June this year. 
Having said that, I refer again to the AddressinReply. Usually we hear a varied and wide range of speeches in the Address-in-Reply debate. We have had the same again on this occasion. The two speeches that to me were outstanding were those which were made by Senators Chaney and Rae last week and in which they dealt specifically with the functions of the Parliament itself and, in particular, the role of the Senate. They expanded on the possibility they see for the further development of the operation of committees in this place. We are all conscious of the fact that the Senate committee system was introduced quite a few years ago. We have seen an expansion of the operations of those committees. We have also seen an increase in the effectiveness of those committees; but we all realise that there are ways and means whereby the committees can be improved and the effectiveness of the Senate and the Parliament can be improved. 
That is why I was so impressed with the speeches made by those two honourable senators. They looked at ways and means of making the committee system far more effective. They went so far as to suggest that in Committees we could deal more with the legislation, instead of dealing, as we tend to do in this place, with the policy itself; in other words, that we place more emphasis on the classification and interpretation of legislation and less on the actual policy involved which normally has been debated in the other place. I support, as I know many honourable senators on both sides of this chamber support, the views put forward by those two honourable senators last week. I hope that in the not too distant future we can see some of those ideas brought into this place for discussion so that we can see the Senate play a more effective role than it has played in the past, particularly in its role as a House of review which is one of the Founding Fathers ' requirements of this chamber. 
One of the things that I regret very much is the fact that members of the Press, although they were present during that debate, did not bother to pick up one word that was said. So often we see the Press picking up other areas, possibly on a basis of sensationalism, to make a headline. To me it is a tragedy when this happens. We hear so much criticism of Parliament and the Parliamentary system, and here were two honourable senators making an earnest endeavour to make a contribution to the further development of the parliamentary system for the further benefit of the parliamentary system and in the interests of its efficiency. It was not until this morning that I had the pleasure of reading in the  Age,  in an article by David Solomon, the first reference made by the Press in this country to the speeches made on the committee system in this place. I may be wrong - 
-I thank  Senator Wright  very much. I am pleased to see that another newspaper has picked this up. I trust that, if and when we have further debate in this place on the development of the committee system, the Press will take notice of what is said by honourable senators, irrespective of the side of the chamber on which they sit. I hope that the Press will notice the contribution honourable senators are making in an effort to make this a more effective chamber and, if I may put it this way, a less political chamber. Perhaps debate will be reduced in some respects. We do not know, until we see what is proposed, what will be debated. To my way of thinking, the aims of these honourable senators are extremely worthwhile and I hope, because of the criticism offered by so many in the community, that the Press will play its part in making sure that the community is made aware of what honourable senators are trying to do. 
I now turn to what might be called a wee spot of parochialism. I wish to refer to the election results in my State of South Australia. It is interesting to note, when looking at the final figures- I am talking now of the primary votes in South Australia- that in the House of Representatives election the Liberal Party polled 45 per cent of the votes, whilst the Australian Labor Party polled 42.6 per cent of the votes. I emphasise that I am referring specifically to primary votes. In the Senate election the Liberal Party in South Australia polled 49 per cent of the votes and the Labor Party 36.8 per cent. On a twoparty preferred basis, in South Australia in the House of Representatives election the Liberal Party polled 51.3 per cent of the votes and the Labor Party 48.7 per cent; yet we in the Liberal Party finished up winning only five of the 1 1 seats. Granted, we were only marginally behind in one of those seats, namely, the seat of Grey, in which our candidate was a matter of 60-odd votes short of the number he required to beat the Labor Party candidate. Nevertheless, I have always believed that if one party gets 50-plus per cent of the votes it should finish up with a majority of the seats. 
In the Senate election- also on a two-party preferred basis- the Liberal Party received 55.9 per cent of the votes and the Labor Party received 44. 1 per cent. In this case we won three of the five seats. At this stage I want to make it perfectly clear that I have no criticism whatever of any of the distribution commissioners who redrew the boundaries both for the Federal election and for the State election in South Australia. The Federal boundaries, particularly within the urban area of Adelaide, were directly related to the State boundaries. If we look at the State figures for South Australia we find that the Liberal Party, combined with the Country Party and the Australian Democrats, polled 46.5 per cent of the votes, whilst the Labor Party polled 53.8 per cent of the votes. The Labor Party won 27 seats, compared with 20 won by the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Australian Democrats. I mention this matter tonight because I think there is a great need for the people of South Australia to be aware of the fact thatagain I am not being critical of the Distribution Commissioners- the guidelines under which the Commissioners had to operate were restrictive in such a way that there was a greater opportunity for the Labor Party in the State elections than there was for the anti-socialist group, if I may put it that way, to win. I think this is something that has been reflected in the Federal vote and something that must be looked at in the future in South Australia. 
I now turn to something that I consider to be of great importance not only to my State of South Australia but also to Australia as a whole. I refer to an area known as Roxby Downs in South Australia, a mining area of great potential both in copper and uranium. The ore body itself covers a vast area. Extensive exploration has been going on, but it is complex because the ore body structures are fragmented and fairly deep in the ground. In fact, I have seen unofficial estimates that they are up to 1,000 feet deep. The company involved has already spent millions of dollars in exploration and will spend many millions more in exploration to evaluate the area fully, but already the company knows that it is a highly potential area. The company also knows that it is not a viable proposition to mine for copper alone because the costs are likely to be very high. As I said earlier, the deposits are fairly deep and are in a rather remote area in the north of South Australia. The development of this mine would require the establishment and development of a township plus the many other ancillary facilities that go with the development of a township. Also coupled with these costs are the costs of separating the uranium from the copper. If the company is not allowed to sell the uranium or to process it in any way, of course there will be the added cost of stockpiling the uranium. No doubt the question of environmental protection would also be raised, and this would be a considerable cost. 
There is a need at the present time, in order that the company has a satisfactory cash flow, for both of the minerals to be processed to some extent and to be sold- I again name the minerals, copper and uranium- otherwise Roxby Downs would not be an economic proposition. This company has been prepared, as I said, to spend many millions of dollars in exploration costs for  the future development of this highly potential area, but unfortunately the Premier of South Australia is still playing ducks and drakes in regard to uranium. I say 'ducks and drakes' because, whilst the Premier has been saying many things in opposition to the mining of uranium, he has allowed uranium exploration to continue not only around Roxby Downs where there is uranium in the ore body but also in other parts of South Australia. For example, a German company known as Uranez which was issued with a licence in August 1977, which was not very long ago- one recalls the Premier was opposed to the mining of uranium when this licence was issued- has been exploring two areas some 30 kilometres from Adelaide. One of these areas is in the Gawler-Kersbrook area which you,  Mr President,  would know very well because it is not far from your residence. The other one is South Willunga which again is not very far south of Adelaide. 
Uranium exploration also is going on in the Olary province, as it is called, on Plumbago Station. I have been in touch with the people on Plumbago Station, and they have expressed a lot of concern about the exploration which is taking place there. It is interesting to note that Plumbago Station was declared an Aboriginal historic and relics area in 1972. Yet reports have stated clearly- I have not seen them denied by the Premier or any other member of the State Government- that the Aboriginals were not informed nor consulted before licences were issued and exploration began in the Plumbago Station area. In fact, there was a report in a newspaper of a statement made by  Mr Viner  on 6 December 1 977 in which he said: 
The Aboriginals had become aware of exploration only when it had been ' revealed ' in the Press. 
Such secrecy in Aboriginal affairs is to be deplored',  Mr Viner  said. 
At a time when  Mr Dunstan  is presenting himself as the champion of anti-uranium protesters and the champion of Aboriginal interests, the revelation that uranium drilling is taking place in Aboriginal historic and sacred areas must dismay Aboriginals throughout Australia. 
There is quite a deal more verbiage there. I am willing to table this article if I am challenged. This was reported in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 6 December 1977. The final comment in the Press article was that  Mr Dunstan  could not be contacted for comment that night. To my knowledge- I stand corrected, if anybody wishes to correct me-  Mr Dunstan  has never commented in the Press on this matter. No doubt he has passed private comments. One could go further and refer to the station owners themselves and the concern which they have publicly expressed when interviewed by the Press. I have had discussions with them in regard to Plumbago Station. I again quote from the article: 
The owner of Plumbago station,  Mr David  Crawford, and the station manager,  Mr Gerald  Gloster, have approached the . . . company and the South Australian Government to halt the exploration. 
They claim it is causing considerable damage to the ecology of the area. 
The article also stated: 

 Mr Crawford is also an honorary warden of Plumbago Reserve. 
I emphasise that part of the article: 

 Mr Crawford is also an honorary warden of Plumbago Reserve. 
It is a reserve. It was established as an Aboriginal reserve in 1 972. The matter does not stop there. When I say that it does not stop there I mean that  Mr Dunstan  has been allowing this exploration to go on in this reserve and in other areas of South Australia ever since his change in policy which took place, as I understand it, in March 1 977. Earlier this evening I cited Press comment dated December 1977. One can go further than that. The South Australian Government delayed for over 12 months any amendments to the South Australian Mining Act because the Act as it previously stood stated very clearly that any company that was given a licence for exploration of minerals was also entitled to the exploitationI repeat the word 'exploitation'- of those minerals. It can be only in that State Parliament that the legislation to my knowledge can be amended. I pose this question: Why has there been delay for all this time if the State Government were genuine in its opposition to the mining of uranium? 
One becomes aware of the fact that the South Australian Government is continuing with a feasibility study on the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia. I have talked previously in this chamber about the matter. It has gone on for many years. The State Government is still working closely with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in regard to a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia and uranium exploration generally in South Australia. But then we go further and we find that the South Australian Government established a uranium enrichment committee in 1975. That committee is still operating. Each year it has produced a report. 
Although the South Australian Government received the third report of that body late last year, that report has still not been presented to the State Parliament and made public. I ask why. Is it because, as has been reported, the Premier and his Cabinet asked the authors to rewrite the report because they were not happy with its contents? One does not know. But it would be very interesting to know why the Premier has not seen fit to accept this report. This report has been prepared- I emphasise- by experts. There is no doubt in my mind- no doubt this will come out some time in the future- that this third report possibly spoke in favour of the mining of uranium and the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia. We certainly will know whether this is so one day. 
But let us go still further.  Mr Dunstan  is still pressing for the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia. Back in March he changed his mind. But in October 1 977 he met with representatives of URENCO CENTEC, a British-Dutch-German company with the expertise to develop and establish an enrichment plant on the centrifuge system. 
-That was in October, which would be after the State election. That is correct. 
I heard that interjection,  Mr President.  If any honourable senator from the other side or my side of the chamber wants to dispute what I am saying tonight he or she is welcome to do so. I am quite willing to listen. I am stating facts which have been given in South Australia to the people of South Australia. Also, through the Department of Mines, the South Australian Government helped to organise a seminar in Adelaide last December to inform mining companies of the potential for mineral and energy development in South Australia. It is interesting to consider some of the topics which were listed for discussion: Potential for Mesozioc and tertiary uranium deposits; the Stuart Shelf and Torrens Hinge Zone; the mineral potential of Gawler Crater- let us remember that at the present time a German company is exploring for uranium there- the Olary Province, where as I mentioned earlier a company is exploring also; and the Adelaide Geosyncline. Geologists state very clearly that all of these areas are known to contain substantial deposits of uranium. 
I take the matter further. Again, if I am incorrect, let any honourable senator challenge me, as I should like to know. The State Government has been the client of AMDEL, the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories in Adelaide, South Australia. The State Government has been a client of AMDEL and AMDEL has been carrying out field trials during the past year to see whether the leaching process for the extraction of uranium is suitable for use on uranium deposits in South Australia. 

 - Senator Cavanagh is criticising me and saying that I am corrupt. If I am wrong in some of the things I have said it is up to honourable senators to say that I am wrong. 
I do not know I am wrong. If I am wrong let honourable senators prove with facts that I am wrong. It is up to them. They have challenged me; let them prove it with facts,  Mr President.  How can  Mr Dunstan  keep up with all this technology, as he had done with his studies into enrichment? If he is so opposed to the mining of uranium, why has he used taxpayers' money for this research by AMDEL? I repeat: If it can be proved that I am wrong, let honourable senators say that I am wrong and I shall accept that my information is not correct. But until such time as I am proved incorrect I shall stand by the information which has been given to me. 
I again emphasise that much of the work which I have mentioned tonight has been done since  Mr Dunstan  had his change of policy. We recall that  Mr Dunstan  seconded the motion on uranium passed at the Federal Australian Labor Party conference in Perth last year. What is more, he also led the ALP general election campaign on the anti-uranium issue. We all saw him on television. Ironically, as I understand it, while this was taking place, the Tasmanian Government issued licences for the exploration of uranium in that State. Again, if I am wrong, let honourable senators tell me so and prove to me that I am wrong. But this does indicate the confusion on the uranium issue within the ALP at the present time. I want to know why  Mr Dunstan  adopted the stand he did. Was it because, as  Senator Messner  stated earlier, some things happened after the State election? Was it to appease people and to make sure that he maximised his vote in the State election? Or was it because he is ambitious and would like to be the next Federal  President  of the ALP? 
Let us not lay all the blame on  Mr Dunstan.  I make it perfectly clear that the Labor Party in South Australia originally was in favour of the mining and export of uranium. For years discussions continued on the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia- an enrichment plant which was proposed to be built at Redcliffs in South Australia. But it is stated that the Premier changed his mind after receiving reports from a particular committee. But who were the members of that committee and who prepared that report? Were they members of the Mines Department with expertise? No, they were not. Was anybody on that committee scientifically engaged on research into aspects of uranium et cetera? According to my information this was not so. The members were two officers of the Premier's Policy Secretariat. 
A question concerning this matter was asked in the House of Assembly in South Australia. I shall quote what was said because I might be questioned by one or two Opposition senators. I shall read from the South Australian  Hansard  proof for that House of 1 3 December 1977. After being questioned by  Mr Roger  Goldsworthy, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in that House,  Mr Dunstan  finally said that two officers of his Policy Secretariat prepared the report. He went on to say: 
After the report had been presented to the Government, a special working party on the development of material in the report was established, but it has not yet finally reported. 
That report still has not been presented to the House of Assembly. Again I ask why. 
Further, it has been stated that one of the reasons why the State Government is opposed to the mining of uranium is the problem of waste disposal. But let us go back over the history. When the South Australian Government was in favour of the mining and export of uranium, technology was not advanced as it is today. Today we know that France, West Germany, England and the United States of America- but particularly France- have made the statement that with vitrification or glassification the storing of waste will be a commercial exercise by 1985. There are scientists who a few years ago questioned the problem of waste for the future who today say that vitrification will make a great difference with respect to the safe disposal of waste. 
Might I suggest that the South Australian Government might have a very close look at what will be known as the Windscale report when it becomes available, which I hope will be in the not too distant future. Windscale has been one of the major research areas on nuclear reactors in the world. It has had not only theoretical but also practical experience and it is interesting to note that following the evidence that was given to the Windscale inquiry the United Kingdom has agreed to the establishment of a further four nuclear reactors in the United Kingdom. That decision was based on the evidence that was given, not on the report- and there is a difference. 
I have mentioned these matters tonight and have referred particularly to uranium and the attitude of the South Australian Government to uranium because I am concerned about the future of Roxby Downs. Roxby Downs has great potential. I do not know whether this chamber is aware of the fact but Roxby Downs could be another Mount Isa, plus or minus, and Mount Isa produces some 1 50,000 tonnes of copper a year. Coupled with this, at Roxby Downs there is uranium and some reports, though not official, have stated that the uranium at Roxby Downs could equal that in the Ranger deposits and that there is sufficient uranium in Roxby Downs alone, forgetting the other known deposits in South Australia, to justify the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia. Yet we see the Premier and Government of South Australia playing ducks and drakes on the issue. I will say now that they will change their mindsthey will have to change their minds pretty soon -because no company will continue spending millions of dollars in exploration of an area of great potential- I emphasise the words 'great potential '-if it is to be forced to separate and stockpile uranium and suffer all the costs involved in that operation as well as the other costs which are involved. 
As I said earlier, this is a remote area of South Australia. It is in a position which would require the establishment of a further township together with the establishment of some smelting works and possibly processing works for the uranium. It is an area in which we can see the potential for the industry in conjunction with the ancillary and other services to employ collectively thousands of people in my State of South Australia. 
We once had no water at Whyalla but we managed to pump it from the 
River Murray and established a new industrial area there. We have an iron triangle at the top of South Australia. So water could be pumped to this area and no doubt would be. This development has the potential to bring so much into South Australia and to employ so many people in our State. No company can be expected to be Father Christmas forever and to continue spending millions of dollars if it does not know exactly where it is going. I go further and say that no government can afford to play ducks and drakes- I will not say 'use double standards'- on an issue in the way that the South Australian Government is doing on this issue at present and place at risk the possibility of the development of an area of such great potential, development that could mean so much to our State in so many ways but particularly in terms of employment opportunities. 
There is a great chance that we could lose the opportunity to develop this mine. So much work has been done over the years in feasibility studies on the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia, but we may see an enrichment plant, which will be established in Australia some time, finish up in one of the other States and our State would miss out again. The responsibility lies clearly with the South Australian Government and if it does not face up to its responsibility and we in our State miss out on what could be the greatest development in South Australia since the  Sir Thomas  Playford days, it will have to pay the price. If it does not accept its responsibility I hope that the price will be heavy. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion before the Chair. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I do so following my recent questions and statements in this place urging the Government to give encouragement to the use of liquefied petroleum gas in motor vehicles so as to conserve Australia's declining petrol and crude oil reserves. I ask: Has the Government given any consideration to removing sales tax on the conversion equipment that is required for vehicles so that they can run on liquefied petroleum gas and also to the removal of the small excise on LPG used in motor vehicles? If not, will the Government give serious consideration to these suggestions as a means of conserving a scarce energy source which also will bring about a reduction in the pollution that is caused by traffic in cities? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she has read a letter written to the editor of the Adelaide  Advertiser  in which a woman states that she visited the office of the Department of Social Security, where the simple process of filling in one form took well over four hours and it took two hours even to find her file. The letter also referred to a man who had left his children in a city car park thinking that his visit to the Department would not take long. He was there for more than four hours. He was in urgent need of money but he received none as the cheque office closed at 4 p.m., before he was attended to. I also ask the Minister whether she has seen the charge that some of the female staff were barefooted, were completely uncaring and in general treated the public like dogs. Further, it was stated by one of those in the queue that everything would stop at 2.30 for the usual Public Service tea break, and it did, with the youngsters wandering around for the next hour with cans of drink, hamburgers, chips, and so on, quite unheeding of the queues of people waiting or the length of time they had waited. Will the Minister make inquiries into these allegations made in a letter to the editor of the  Advertiser  last Monday and, if her inquiries show the allegations to be true, will she take such action as she deems fit to ensure that proper service is given to the general public by one of the Public Service departments? 

 - Senator Harradine at the end of his speech foreshadowed an amendment to provide that if a matter of public importance did not receive the support of four senators then that matter would lapse. With great respect, I suggest that the present Standing Order states that anybody standing in his place and moving what is now known as an urgency motion must have the support of four senators standing in their places. If  Senator Harradine  's suggestion were adopted, we would be reverting to what we already have. 
-But that matter would automatically lapse because there were not four senators standing in their places to support it. 
I accept that point. I wish to deal with a point raised by  Senator Chaney  relating to the  President  having discretion as to what will be the selected matter of public importance. I recall that a few years ago the Standing Orders Committee, when discussing Standing Order  64,  dealt with the problem of the race to get in first to the President's office with an urgency motion. We finished up with a compromise of  90  minutes. I believe that it is far better for presidential responsibility and integrity to operate in this area and for the  President,  whoever he or she may be, to make the decision as to what will be regarded as the matter of public importance to be discussed by the Senate, so long as it has the support of four other honourable senators. 
At this stage I wish to deal with the matter of signatures. One appreciates that we have had a situation where, so long as somebody moved a matter in this place and four honourable senators stood and supported it, then that matter was the one eventually debated in the chamber. But I believe that it is far better to have four signatures than to have four senators rising in their places. I have listened tonight with interest to what  Senator Harradine  has said and I support the need to ensure that individuals, be they independents or members of minority parties, have the right to be heard and the opportunity for freedom of expression in the Senate chamber. That is what this chamber is all about. In my book any honourable senator who stands in this place knowing that he does not have the support of four other honourable senators- be they honourable senators who are seated in the chamber who are prepared to stand in support of the motion or be they honourable senators who are outside or within the chamber and who have put their signature to a motion- is in all probability playing politics. I admit that a lot of the urgency motions which have been debated in this place have revolved around politics. But there is a big difference between an individual standing in this place and trying to play politics and one who comes along with what is stated as being a matter of urgency. 

 - Senator Harradine has moved two urgency motions in this place, as I recall, and he has had the support of at least four honourable senators on each occasion. I am certain that a man of  Senator Harradine  's ability and political prowess would not come into the chamber cold on those occasions.  Senator Harradine  can count above four. He knew that he had to have the support of at least four honourable senators beforehand or he would have been dropped from great heights when trying to move a motion concerning a matter of urgency. I am also sure that if  Senator Harradine-  I say this very respectfully- were to come into this place wishing to move and debate a matter of urgency he would have the intelligence and initiative to make sure he had four signatures before going ahead. He also would not go ahead with raising a matter of urgency under the current Standing Orders if he did not have support. 
I feel that there is a need for these things to be tied up far more than they have been in the past. I accept that this is a temporary procedure. We will try this procedure and see how it operates. I am very happy about that because we have been discussing the provisions of Standing Order  64  for some years. I am pleased that the Senate Standing Orders Committee has come forward on this occasion and made further positive suggestions to the Senate. I give my wholehearted support to the implementation of this procedure on a temporary basis. Let us see how it operates. If  Senator Harradine  or any member of a minority party has proven objections and can show factually that the Standing Order is not operating in the true sense of democracy in this chamber, I will be happy to take a different stand when the time comes to make this procedure a permanent part of the Standing Orders. At this stage I would like to try this proposal. Standing Order  64  has been discussed for a long time in this chamber. I am pleased to see positive suggestions coming forward again. I am quite happy to accept on a temporary basis the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen reports indicating that in the last two years more than 1,000 Asian doctors and some 200-odd South African doctors have registered in South Australia, although they do not live in that State or elsewhere in Australia, and that they have done this basically as an insurance so that they can practise in South Australia should they decide to leave their own countries. What is the position of the Federal Government regarding such doctors, who are neither naturalised citizens nor residents of Australia, registering in South Australia? Has the Minister had discussions with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs about these reports, particularly in relation to the non-resident aspect and also the current reported concern about the already surplus number of doctors practising in Australia? 
We are rebating a Bill to grant financial assistance to the States in connection with the development and management of national water resources. I support the Bill. It is quite wideranging. I refer to what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech on page 274 of Senate  Hansard.  He said: 
It encompasses all aspects of water resources management for which Commonwealth assistance would be appropriateconservation and distribution works, water quality management, desalinisation or agricultural land, flood mitigation and floodplain management, and studies or investigations relating to all aspects of the assessment and utilisation of Australia's water resources. 
One can see from that statement just how broad this legislation is. That is why I commend the Government on its proposals which we are debating at present. The Government has stated that it is prepared to put forward some $200m over the next five years to cover the aspects referred to in the second reading speech. 
Many honourable senators have said that Australia is the driest continent in the world. It is certainly not endowed with a great surplus of water. Therefore, there is a need for conservation and maximisation of utilisation of all the water resources we have. There is a need to know much more about our resources, not only on the surface but also in underground streams. Whilst there are many river systems in Australia there are few of great significance. Perhaps the only one of great significance is the River Murray. It supplies water within the borders of three States- New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia 
This river, which flows for many miles across the continent, has great demands placed upon it. Over the years it has been necessary to introduce State quotas to make sure that there will be equitable distribution among the States for irrigation and other uses. The great use of water, for irrigation in particular, has brought many great problems. I refer to the problem of salinity. Whilst the allocation of quotas was undertaken through the River Murray Commission, whereby the three States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia sat down together with the Commonwealth and came to mutual and sensible arrangements for quotas, with the usage of this water in irrigation we have seen great problems of salinity. Salinity is still causing great problems. We have seen what has been done with regard to commitments made by Federal governments over the years. 
To digress for a moment, tonight  Senator Douglas  McClelland claimed that the Whitlam Government had been more generous than possibly any other government with regard to water resource development. It is interesting to note that between 1965 and 1972 successive Liberal Party and Country Party governments granted some $22 lm for this purpose. According to my mathematics, this works out at some $3 1 .5m per annum. The Whitlam Government, during its term between 1973 and 1975, contributed some $55. 5m for this purpose, which works out at about $27m per annum. I mention that because  Senator Douglas  McClelland raised the matter tonight. I do not think it matters much what governments were prepared to spend in the past because all governments have placed priority upon the need for more to be done within the area of water resources in Australia. Perhaps it could be said, though, that there might be a greater need today for this work than there has been in the past. I say that because salinity is a problem; we have been hit with droughts in the past three years; and with the great demand that is being placed upon the River Murray systemunfortunately, the only major river system we have in Australia- there is a great problem of sufficient supplies of quality water being available to meet the needs of this vast continent. 
I referred earlier to the problem of salinity, particularly the South Australian problem of salinity. At times South Australia has been referred to as 'the State that gets its water out of the sink' because by the time the salinity has come into the water from New South Wales and Victoria and the water flows down into South Australia, South Australia generally does finish up with a greater salinity problem than the other States because they get first use of the water and, unfortunately, much of the salinity seeps back into the Murray system. Hence we had the controversy over where a dam which would have assisted with regard to the salinity problem, particularly in South Australia, should be built. That controversy went on for quite some time, particularly in this chamber. A decision had to be made between Chowilla and Dartmouth. There was also controversy about this matter in my State of South Australia. 
Having debated this issue so much in the past in this place, this afternoon I was prepared to let the reference made to this matter pass. But having heard  Senator McLaren  speak this afternoon, I must speak on this subject, if for no other reason than that I think he was grossly unfair in his remarks about  Mr Steele  Hall. What  Senator McLaren  said was correct, but what was grossly unfair was what he did not say. I think it was totally and politically immoral for an honourable senator to stand in this place and wave pamphlets around which, I agree, were supported by  Mr Steele  Hall when he was Premier of Sonth Australia, but not say that when the river system got so low that Mildura became concerned there was a need to have a rethink of the whole situation. 
The Engineering and Water Supply Department in South Australia and the Department of National Development in Canberra, totally divorced from politics, set to work and engineers from both departments came up with recommendations for a total rethink of the dam situation and with a recommendation that a dam should be built further upstream at Dartmouth. It was then that  Mr Steele  Hall, as Premier of South Australia, spent some time in Canberra with engineers from his Department and it was then that he changed his mind because of the logic of the arguments put forward to him by experts and not by politicians. That is what  Senator McLaren  failed to tell the Senate today in all fairness to  Mr Steele  Hall. I do not mind how much  Senator McLaren  likes to try to belt the ears off us; I think he has a responsibility to come up with all the facts, particularly if he is attacking somebody who no longer sits in this place. That is all I wish to say on the matter. 
We are fortunate in Australia that we do have a River Murray system, with all the problems involved with salinity, et cetera. South Australia takes advantage of the Murray system for more than just irrigation along the River Murray area. Today water is pumped from the River Murray not only to the city of Adelaide to supplement Adelaide's domestic requirements for water, but also to the city of Whyalla in the north and en route to cities like Port Augusta and many of the rural areas. Today we also have a pipeline which goes to the top end of the south-east of South Australia. So it can be seen that there is a great need for South Australia not only to have its quota of water but also to have quality water, because the water is used for domestic purposes as well as industrial purposes. There are and have been problems, particularly with salinity. Whilst some $3.4m has been spent over the years on some projects related to salinity, I hope that through this legislation the States will again be able to approach the Federal Government so that part of the proposed expenditure of $200m can be used in this area, which will assist irrigation in New South Wales, Victoria and in my State of South Australia. 
I mentioned the fact that today Adelaide is using quite a lot of of River Murray water which has been piped down to the city. But one of the problems we also face is the fact that we have a market garden development north of the city of Adelaide- a big area known as Virginia- where through the great development of market gardens over the years there has been such an excess demand placed upon subterranean water that the water table is lowering and there is a need to impose quotas. But right near Virginia we have the Bolivar treatment works, where water is recycled at the rate of millions of gallons per annum. Unfortunately, until the present, this water has not been used to supplement the needs of the market gardeners in the Virginia-Angle Vale area. The State Government has been approached regarding this matter, but to my knowledge so far no applications have been made to the Federal Government. This is one area in which water utilisation can be given further assistance because here, virtually at the back door, is water which only needs piping or reticulating. This would cost quite a lot of money, but if one turns again to what the Minister said in his second reading speech one sees that it also covers such things as distribution. This legislation could be a great asset to the South 
Australia Government in terms of the Federal Government assisting the South Australian Government to provide more water for the area of Virginia, which is so important. At the present time there is grave concern because, as I said earlier, the water table is being lowered and this will restrict production in this very important area unless something is done in the near future. I hope that the State Government will take up this matter with the Federal Government after this legislation is passed and come forward with a proposal, and that we can obtain some benefit for these people who are in need in this very important area of South Australia. 
Another issue which was mentioned tonight by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack-  Senator Jessop  mentioned it this afternoon- is that of subterranean or underground water. There are great underground water tables in the south-east of South Australia, but there is also a great need for more research to be done in this area. We have heard figures quoted on just how old- hundreds and thousands of years old- this water is, but there is a great need to know more about it and to know what the limits are in drawing water from those subterranean areas, so that people in the future will not be disadvantaged by overuse or abuse at present. This area, which also fits within the legislation, is one of great need. 
In regard to flood mitigation, particularly in the eastern States of Australia there have been great problems over the years, there will continue to be great problems and a geat deal will need to be done. We know what has happened in the Wee Waa area. In conjunction with flood mitigation measures we saw the establishment of a great cotton industry in that northern part of New South Wales. So, a dual purpose was served there- firstly, to control flooding in the area and, secondly, as a result, to conserve water which can be used for irrigation, which in turn has developed into what today is a very important agricultural industry. 
I note with interest tonight that a few members of the Opposition have criticised the legislation, stating that they feel that great limitations are placed upon the legislation and as a consequence they support the amendment moved by  Senator Walsh.  I cannot support the amendment. I do not feel that there is any need for such an amendment. Whilst I am pleased that the Opposition supports in principle the Bill and the need for this legislation in order to look further into the water resources of this country- this scarce resource- I cannot see the point of its argument in coming forward with an amendment stating that separate enactments should be provided for each resource project. The Minister has made it perfectly clear- he stated this in his second reading speech- that a copy-of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament; and, in addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. If every agreement is tabled in the Parliament there will be an opportunity to debate those issues. If the Opposition is genuine in its desire to debate those issues and if it feels that by some devious means the Government is refusing to give it such an opportunity, there are such things as urgency motions on Wednesdays arid there are opportunities whereby the Government can be exposed if it tries to frustrate. I believe that the Minister is giving the Opposition every opportunity. 
This legislation tends to centralise the whole issue of water resources so that the States can come forward responsibly with submissions to the Government or the Minister on what they see as a priority. Then, after agreement between Ministers, both State and Federal, that agreement will lie upon the table in the respective chambers of this Parliament. The individual members of this Parliament will then have the opportunity to debate that agreement. I repeat that, if any senator feels that he or she is being frustrated by the Government and does not have the oppotunity for an open debate, I have yet to see an Opposition, if it is trying to be effective, not picking up the issue on a Wednesday with an urgency motion. Any party has an opportunity to do this if it wishes. I reject the amendment and support the legislation. I feel that, whilst it is a very small Bill, it is of extreme importance because it deals with one of the scarcest and most important resources in Australia. As I said before, there is a great need for efficient utilisation and conservation of this very scarce resource. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government and concerns the announcement that the Federal Government is going to convert some of its motor vehicles to the use of liquefied petroleum gas in an endeavour to conserve petrol and also to encourage the general public to do the same thing. Will the Government also remove the sales tax on the equipment required to convert cars to the use of liquefied petroleum gas- something that I have been urging for a long time- as that would provide an added incentive to people to convert to LPG? Will the Government also give consideration to removing the excise on LPG used in motor vehicles as a further incentive? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that some 14 home owners in Salisbury, South Australia, are now placed in financial difficulties, with some of their homes being sold, because the building contractor to whom they were making loan repayments has become bankrupt? Is the Minister aware that these individuals stand to lose thousands of dollars invested in their homes through no real fault of their own? As it appears that the South Australian Government will do nothing, will the Commonwealth Government make inquiries to see whether there is any way in which these unfortunate people could be given assistance to save their homes and prevent their homes from being sold? 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Social Security a report in yesterday's  Adelaide News  that when the chief of the investigation squad which led the weekend raids in connection with the social security and Medibank swindle was asked whether any other ethnic communities had been investigated in relation to the massive fraud he replied: 
No, this is entirely connected with the Greek community. 
I ask the Minister: Is it intended to continue and to broaden the investigations to see whether any Australians or other ethnic communities have also been cheating, or is the inquiry to be purely into the Greek community and in particular the Greek community in Sydney? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of recent Press reports which indicate that the postal system is being used for the purpose of distributing illicit drugs and that between October 1 974 and November 1977, 89 undeliverable domestic postal articles, in other words broken packages, were found to contain narcotics? Does the Australian Postal Commission have any power to confiscate such articles and, further, to screen all postal articles to see whether they contain narcotics? If not, does the Government intend to take any action to stop this illicit trafficking of drugs through the Australian postal services? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources whether he has seen reports to the effect that the New Zealand Government is proposing increases in tariffs applying to Australian goods from some 17 per cent to 25 per cent, while reducing the overall general rate of duty from 55 per cent to 40 per cent, which would mean that the preferential margin on Australian goods would be reduced from 38 per cent to 15 per cent. I ask the Minister: Do these proposed changes come within the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement? As such proposals could adversely affect many Australian exports to New Zealand, will the Government be having early discussions with the New Zealand Government in an endeavour to avoid Australian exports to New Zealand being so disadvantaged, particularly within the terms of the New Zealand -Australia Free Trade Agreement? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development or to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, following the recent report of the National Energy Advisory Committee which makes recommendations designed to produce significant cost and energy savings. Is the Minister aware that it is estimated that emission controls on motor vehicles cost $150 per normal family car and can cost as much as $500 on some cars and that fuel consumption is increased- with about 9 per cent drop in miles per gallon- and also that fuel costs increase by some 7 per cent? In view of the need to conserve fuel, will the Minister have discussions with State Ministers with the aim of removing emission controls from motor vehicles and will he have inquiries made as to the efficiency of emission controls on motor vehicles, including the percentage reduction in emission pollution with the use of such controls? 
I support the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill 1978. In doing so I emphasise that what we are doing is virtually fulfilling an election promise made last year by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I refute the claim made in the amendment moved by the Opposition that this Bill does not carry out what was stated in the Prime Minister's policy speech. There the Prime Minister made it very clear and very concise- he did so without any excessive verbiage- so that it would be clearly understood in the electorate that the Government, if returned to power, early in its new Parliament would bring down the price of petrol in country areas to a price differential of less than lc a litre or 4c a gallon and eventually in the life of this Parliament would bring the differential down to 2c a gallon. 
This is provided for in this legislation. I think the Parliament should be reminded also, as  Senator Wright  reminded it in his speech, of the fact that whilst we are introducing a Bill, in reality we are reintroducing legislation. We are bringing back for country people something that was abolished by the Labor Party when it was in power. That is a matter with which I will deal a little later on. Firstly, I think it is necessary to say that for many years, in fact from 1965 until the Labor Party abolished the scheme, rural dwellers- not the rural industry but rural dwellers-obtained great benefit from the price equalisation scheme for fuels covering a range of products from refined crude oil. In itself, that brought great benefit to country areas and country people, and it was most unfortunate that the Labor Party saw fit to abolish such a benefit to country dwellers. 
Under this scheme freight differentials in the transportation of eligible petroleum products from the refining points and from the seaboard terminals to country sale points will be subsidised.  Senator Wright  raised this question with the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and asked that it be answered later. As I understand it, seaboard terminals are the points of discharge of the refined products, such as the cities on the Queensland coast, for example, where refined products can be discharged from the refineries into tanks. That is the base from which the freight differentials would be calculated. I emphasise that that is the position as I understand it, and no doubt the Minister will correct me if I am wrong. I wish to point out that the provisions of this legislation follow what the Prime Minister has said previously, that is, that country sale points will have a freight differential of no more than 4c a gallon or 0.9c a litre over any city prices. As the Government has said, and it has been made clear in this legislation, eventually this will be brought down to within a range of 2c a gallon. 

 Senator Wright referred in his speech to the various costs of the scheme this year and for the next two years and said that there would be a great escalation in the following year. He queried the overall mathematics without going into the detail of it. Again as I understand it, if one looks at the overall position in Australia and draws a circle to get the margin for bringing the differential down to 4c, certain costs are incurred when one moves a long way out. But when the differential between city and country prices is reduced to 2 cents a greater escalation of costs is involved because there is less volume and a much higher freight input within those costs as one moves to outlying areas. I have taken notice of  Senator Wright's  query and I too would be pleased if the Minister could give a further explanation of that point. 
-That is the point I was trying to make. As the margins are reduced so we move further out into more distant areas where there are higher freight rates and less volume. Hence there is a great escalation of costs in that case, and if we were to move to no differential at all between city and country prices we would find a far greater escalation in the overall amount of money required for the subsidy. 
I stand to be corrected by the Minister, but that is as I understand it. Dealing again with the detail of the Bill, the scheme is to be operated by Commonwealth grant by way of the subsidy to the various States, and of course this will subsidise the oil companies and their distributors. As has been stated today, although under this scheme there will be a decrease in country prices there will be no decrease in city prices. In that respect I wish to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  which states: 
Honourable members will appreciate that the proposed Australia-wide scheme is directed solely to subsidising freight costs in excess of 4c per gallon. It will therefore have no effect on the prices of petroleum products in metropolitan and other areas where freight differentials do not exceed the 4c subsidy margin. 
I think it is important to take that point on board because some people, well-intentioned or otherwise, have given the impression that city consumers will be paying for the freight subsidy in country areas. That is not correct. In part, city consumers along with other people- the taxpayers of Australia- will subsidise the freights but city consumers alone will not subsidise them. 
It is necessary to spell out two very important areas. Firstly, the freight differentials to be subsidised will be based on costs submitted by individual oil companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal and accepted by the Tribunal, and I underline that. In other words, no oil company or major distributor can say that its costs are X dollars. The company will make application to the Prices Justification Tribunal and its prices must be qualified and quantified and accepted by the Tribunal as factual costs. There should be no rigging of the books. However, if there is and if the company is caught, then the penalty provided is that it will lose its licence. In addition, oil companies and distributors have to enter into an agreement to pass on to consumers the full benefit of the savings. In other words, they cannot absorb those benefits into their own cost structures and so inflate their own profits. I think it is important in these two areas that, firstly, genuine costs will be assessed and confirmed by the Prices Justification Tribunal and, secondly, every assurance will be given that the full benefit provided by way of government subsidy to the oil companies will in turn be passed on to consumers in the country areas. 
Another point in the legislation that I think is extremely important deals with the previous history of the fuel equalisation scheme. When the Labor Party was in power in 1974 fuel equalisation was suddenly abolished overnight, and on that occasion it was abolished by ministerial direction alone. That can no longer happen, and it has been spelled out very clearly in the legislation and in the Minister's second reading speech that in future the Parliament will make the decision and it will not be left to ministerial discretion. For the record, I should like to read the relevant statement in the Minister's second reading speech which appears at page 5 1 8 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 8 March 1978: 
This scheme was terminated by ministerial action in 1 974. The Government considers, however, that a scheme of such great significance to rural consumers of petroleum products should not be capable of termination by ministerial action only without reference to the Parliament. Accordingly, the Bill before the House provides that, except as authorised by a resolution of each house of the Parliament, the Minister shall not revoke - 
I emphasise the words 'shall not revoke '-  or otherwise terminate the operation of the scheme. 
This is most important. Whilst there is a need in some areas for ministerial discretion and ministerial direction within his discretionary powers, there are areas in which such things should not be left to the Minister alone or to the Executive alone, but which should be left to the Parliament. Fuel equalisation for country areas is one area that should not be left to either the Minister or the Executive. I am certain that if this area had been covered previously by legislation, under which the Parliament rather than the Minister would have decided, we would not have seen the abolition of the scheme. Alternatively, if it had been abolished there would have been a terrific fight on the way down in both chambers of this Parliament. There are many people within these chambers who have some appreciation and understanding of the problem and the costs of rural dwellers. I am not referring here to rural industries but to rural dwellers. The further out into the country one goes the more one realises how much costs affect those citizens. 
For a long time members of the Australian Labor Party talked of decentralisation. They talked genuinely about decentralisation and they introduced many aspects towards encouraging decentralisation. But in the process of doing that they abolished a scheme that was of great importance and that gave much encouragement to further decentralisation in this country. When I speak about decentralisation I am not speaking about the coastal areas but I am speaking about taking people right out into the country, to decentralise and to encourage the establishment of industry, whether it be in the primary, rural, mining, manufacturing or tertiary sectors of industry. There is a need to further encourage decentralisation but that will not be achieved if we have governments, like the Government we had in 1 974, abolishing schemes which bring a great deal of benefit to many rural dwellers in this country. 
Let us look again at the man on the land. I am dealing here with primary industry and rural matters. We know that certain things were done during those three years of Labor Government. I refer to the abolition of the superphosphate subsidy and to areas of taxation with regard to the farming community. I am not here to debate those issues today but I do not pass over them. I mention those very important matters as they adversely affected the man on the land. As I said earlier, fuel costs affect not only the farmer. They affect all people, particularly people in outlying areas of Australia who have to pay high freights. Fuel costs are a big cost factor for the farmer and the man on the land. It is interesting to note that some 19.5 per cent of all refined petroleum products is used for farming and for rural industry. Transport uses some 2 1 .3 per cent. 
-I found it very difficult to get these figures. The figures I am quoting came from an automobile chamber of commerce. I have had them checked elsewhere. I understand them to be correct but I stand to be corrected by any other honourable senator. As far as I am concerned, they are factual. The thing that amazes me is that transport- we see a great volume of transport on our roads today- consumes some 21.3 per cent of all refined petroleum produced and the rural industry consumes some 1 9.5 per cent. Of course, transport is a big cost factor for people in outlying rural areas. 
If the honourable senator does not agree with those figures I would like him to have them checked. When looking at the other rising costs incurred by primary industry over which primary industry has no control and when looking at the volume of petroleum products absorbed by primary industry, we see that the costs for petroleum products alone amount to a very great proportion of the total costs of the farming community. We can go into other areas, but the fuel factor is a big cost factor for the farmers. A reduction in this cost will be of great benefit to them particularly at the present time when they have no control over most of their inputs and no control over most of their outputs or products for sale. Coupled with that are the tragedies of drought that they have suffered in the past two or three years. We hope that that situation will not continue in the current year. Fuel equalisation will play a very important part in the cost structure of the farming community as well as of the rural community. 
Having said those things, I wish to make passing reference to discounting in cities. This matter was raised today by both  Senator Georges  and  Senator Wright.  There are many small companies operating in Australia, particularly in the city areas, that have one or two prime sites in one or two cities and that is virtually all they have. It is very easy for those people to obtain a high volume of sales, a great throughput and a big turnover, ensuring that their costs are spread fairly thinly over the great volume of fuel put through those service stations. Let us forget about the major companies. The small companies with very few outlets, very low costs, high volume and a great turnover are able to offer petrol to the customer at a discounted price. But companies- I shall not mention nameswhich act as distributors not only to metropolitan areas generally but also to country areas in close proximity to cities, to country areas well outback and to country areas right outback, absorb and incur terrific costs. No doubt they are selling fuel in many cases at a very small margin, so they are not in a position to offer discounting, as the small companies can offer. 
-I was going on with that,  Senator Georges.  I hope that I have made this clear. This situation has been going on for quite a number of years and, unless something is done, it will continue. I feel that in many ways it is grossly unfair that some of these small companies, which do not have great costs, which do not accept the responsibility of trying to be distributors in the outlying areas with very small margins of profit, which are concentrated in the prime positions in the densely populated areas, are able to offer discounting to the customer. Let me give another reason for the fact that we are seeing discounting at present. This virtually goes back to the Gorton days. The price set for Australian indigenous crude oil was such that it was to the disadvantage of oil companies to have to take that crude oil at that stage. John Gorton, the then Prime Minister, had great foresight. He saw that eventually overseas freight costs and the volumes of crude oil needed to fulfil our requirements were such that the freight factor would play a very important part in the end cost. It was not really until the energy crisis that we saw a great escalation in the price of crude oil. Then, rather than it being a disadvantage for oil companies to take a quota of Australian crude oil- a quota which was related directly to the volume of petrol and products those companies sold in Australia- it became an advantage for them to take the cheaper Australian crude oil. As I understand it, the price of indigenous crude oil was about $4.30 a barrel compared with $12.60 - 
There is a difference in price. It costs $3.40 a barrel but landed price gives an average difference of around - 
That is overseas. I was talking about the indigenous landed oil which cost $4.30 a barrel as against $12.60 a barrel for imported oil. I have given those figures off the top of my head. I think that the correct price is the one I have just given to the Senate. Today we have a situation in which the distributors like to maximise their volumes of petrol sales, if I could put it that way, because the greater the sales, the greater the quota of Australian indigenous crude oil they can take. There has been encouragement in this area for oil companies to increase their sale of petroleum products. Out of that increase in sales, the companies have been able to obtain the benefit of cheaper Australian indigenous crude oil which cost about $4.30 to $4.60 a barrel, compared to some $12.50 a barrel for imported oil. In the future, with the Government's policy whereby the price for Australian crude oil is closer to the import parity price, these benefits gradually will be reduced until the time will come when the Australian crude oil price will reach the import parity price and the price difference will be minimised. Nevertheless, for many years the expansion of petrol sales by oil companies in Australia has been one of the ways of expanding their quotas of indigenous crude. 
I am not trying to defend oil companies. I have already mentioned my criticism of some of the oil companies in regard to price cutting. However, major oil companies are also able to cut down on their labour costs by setting up selfserve stations in some of the prime areas with volume sales. The labour component is very expensive today. One could say that the oil companies are cutting back on the capital intensity of their operations. When the customer serves himself, the oil companies again are able to cut their costs. By offering other services to motorists, encouraging volume sales in those areas and cutting their overheads, the oil companies have been able to give discounts to many Australian motorists. I have noticed that in recent times quite a number of the service stations that are giving discounts are service stations that have changed to self-service rather than have people man the pumps. That statement does not apply to one particular company. Quite a few companies today are doing this. I refer particularly to my State of South Australia where the oil companies, with the introduction of self-service facilities in prime positions, have been able to increase sales of petrol and to continue to offer discounts to the Australian motorist. 
Having said that, I return basically to where I started: The whole idea of this legislation is to reintroduce a scheme that was abolished by the Labor Government in 1974 and to bring the difference in the price of fuel in the country much closer to that in the cities. Under this legislation the difference in price is 4c a gallon. One anticipates that because of the Government's commitment on this matter, by the end of this Parliament- in three years' time- we will see that difference down to 2c a gallon. Whilst that will make petrol cheaper for country people, as I have said it will not increase the price of petrol for city people. Nevertheless, we as a nation must accept and expect that fuel prices in this country will rise. At the present time Australia is 70 per cent self-sufficient in its fuel needs. If we continue with our present rate of consumption- it is going up very rapidly because of the increased numbers of vehicles on the road- it is estimated that by 1 985 we will be only 25 per cent to 30 per cent self-sufficient in oil requirements. The great gap must be filled either from further finds of indigenous crude oil or from overseas crude oil. As I said before the price of overseas crude oil is about $ 12.50 to $ 12.60 a barrel. One can see that filling the gap can end in only one result. Firstly, it will mean a greater import cost, estimated at some $4,000m by 1985 and, of course, it will lead to higher fuel prices. I could go on to deal with the need to encourage oil exploration. There is a need to introduce a scheme whereby the price of indigenous crude oil will gradually come up to the import parity price. This in itself would have an effect upon petrol prices. But also it would bring into production some of the less marginal pools of oil which are not economic at the present time. There is a need to increase the price offered to companies to make those pools economic fields. In Bass Strait alone, many areas which were previously referred to as pools of crude oil, given the right price would be regarded as economic. In that way we would greatly increase our reserves of crude oil in Australia. 
Whichever way we look at the position, in the not too distant future we will be facing and we will continue to face increased fuel prices in Australia. That will continue for quite some time. One of the ways in which we could cut down our import bill for crude oil would be to find more indigenous crude oil in Australia. I hope that this will be the case. We must be optimistic about this. Nevertheless, if an oil company were to announce a big find tomorrow morning, there would be a considerable lead time. It would take many years before that oil could be on-stream from the refinery to consumer. In this interim period we must face the fact of having to pay a higher import bill for crude oil because we will need more overseas crude oil. We, the consumers in this country, will have to face higher costs for our fuel because that imported crude oil is so much dearer than the Australian indigenous oil. I give my wholehearted support to the legislation. I cannot accept the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to it and I will be voting to reject its amendment. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. With the need to encourage petroleum exploration, on-shore as well as offshore, coupled with encouraging signs of further potential fields of both dry and liquid hydrocarbons on-shore, will the Government give serious consideration to applying the same tax incentives for on-shore exploration as were introduced for off-shore exploration in the last Budget which, along with other Government policies, have already encouraged a big upturn in off-shore oil exploration? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen critical commentary by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  reported in last week 's South Australian  Sunday Mail  regarding the Federal Government's proposed legislation to amend the Australian Atomic Energy Act? Does the proposed legislation give the Commonwealth full powers to mine uranium anywhere in Australia, or is it particularly in relation to the mining of uranium at Ranger in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement introduced by the Whitlam Government? Are the South Australian Premier or his departments still having discussions with the Federal Government on the feasibility of establishing a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and concerns the compulsory wearing for security reasons of identity cards by people moving within Parliament House and their voluntary wearing by some members of parliament. Will the Minister give consideration to the issuing of parliamentary lapel badges to senators and members as a method of recognition, as is the practice in some parliaments overseas? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development without notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Has the Government given any consideration to removing sales tax on the conversion equipment that is required for vehicles so that they can run on liquefied petroleum gas and also to the removal of the small excise of LPG used in motor vehicles? If not, will the Government give serious consideration to these suggestions as a means of conserving a scarce energy source which also will bring about a reduction in the pollution that is caused by traffic in cities? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the need to increase Australian oil and gas reserves and the great upturn in off-shore exploration as a result of the Government's tax incentive policies for off-shore exploration, will the Government apply the same tax incentives to onshore exploration to further encourage on-shore exploration for hydrocarbons and at the same time give greater encouragement to Australian investment in these activities? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing both the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Was it found that the Trade Practices Act had certain limitations in relation to the recent dispute over the exporting of live sheep from Australia? If that is so, will the Government introduce amendments, to this Act or any other Act, which may be required to resolve a similar situation if the need should again arise? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the long delay in mail deliveries in Adelaide and South Australia generally, due to the postal workers' ban on overtime in South Australia. Will the Minister arrange for a further increase in additional staff which could help overcome the great delay in mail deliveries in South Australia. As well as giving work to a greater number of people such an increase would avoid the payment of overtime penalty rates, which the postal workers do not appear to want as they have already placed a ban on it. 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that transport drivers who are required to go to the Adelaide Airport have no transport desk or telephone, unlike those in many other capital city airports? As this causes a great deal of inconvenience to both passengers and drivers, will the Minister give consideration to establishing at the Adelaide Airport a central contact point which has a desk and telephone. 
-by leave-  I  bring up the report of the Australian delegation to the 64th Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference at Sofia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
On bringing up this report and moving for the Senate to take note of it, I wish to make just a few brief comments. The first matter to which I refer is that relating to the violation of the human rights of parliamentarians. This is a matter of great concern to many people and the recent Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference agreed to resolutions, both on the general subject and on specific cases. The Australian group has been active for some time in supporting inquiries by the Inter-Parliamentary Union and I believe that our Parliament and group should actively pursue the suggestions contained in the general resolution on the subject. That resolution is found in appendix H to the report. At the Sofia conference two subject matters were of considerable contention. One was the behaviour of the Israeli authorities in the Arab occupied territories and the other was the situation in southern Africa. When the resolutions on these two matters came before delegates for the vote, the Australian votes, which consist, under IPU rules, of 13 votes, were divided, after full, friendly discussions, among members of the delegations. On the first item the votes were 6 ayes, 3 noes, 4 abstentions, and on the second item 6 ayes, 7 noes. This practice is followed by delegations from countries such as ours, where there is a freedom for expression, and all our delegates concurred in the decision. I personally believe it to be important that this opportunity should remain available to our delegations. 

 Mr President, I do not wish to say any more at this stage, other than to assure you and the Senate that the Australian delegation worked very well together in making an Australian contribution to the Conference and to Australia 'sinternational reputation. I appreciated the contribution and help of every member of the delegation and trust that the high level of interest and activity will continue to be maintained. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
This afternoon we are debating a Bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act and also the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. These two Bills are in a package of some six pieces of legislation which relate directly and in some aspects indirectly to the proposed mining of uranium in the Ranger area. This package of legislation deals, as I said, with amendments to the Atomic Energy Act, with aspects of the environment in the Alligator Rivers region where the mines are situated, and with Aboriginal land rights. These Bills have come into being because of the Government's concern to make sure that all aspects of the mining, milling and exporting of uranium are covered by legislation. That point must be emphasised. They even cover aspects of the environment. 
We heard a lot today about the Atomic Energy Act. This Act has been in force since 1953. We are amending the Act to bring it more into line with the present day and, in particular, to incorporate the Ranger uranium project. We are dealing with a very important piece of legislation. Basically we are debating whether Australia should mine and export uranium. This issue goes back a long way and a lot of concern has been expressed. An in-depth inquiry has been held. I refer to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, established by the Whitlam Government in 1975, of which  Mr Justice  Fox was appointed  Chairman.  He presented his first report, dealing with the physical aspects of the mining of uranium, in 1976. In his second report, in 1977, he dealt with the environmental aspects. 
Much of this package of legislation relates directly to recommendations made in the Fox reports. Both reports supported the mining of uranium with certain qualifications. These matters have been considered very closely by the Government. I will go even further and say that they have been considered by the Parliament itself. The issue could not be treated lightly, nor was it treated lightly. The Government has certainly not endeavoured to make any snap decisions and many debates have taken place in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. I am pleased to see that in this debate so far no Opposition member has accused the Government of trying to deal with the matter in haste or said that sufficient debate has not been allowed. Pages and pages of debate on this matter appear in  Hansard.  Hours and hours have been spent in debating the issue in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. 
The issue of the mining of uranium is a controversial matter among quite a few people in the community. At times the matter has become very emotive, as  Senator Colston  said when he was speaking earlier. It is also a very political matter. It is interesting to note that when demonstrators so often vocally express their views on the issue of uranium they condemn the Australian Government and some other governments, but I have yet to see them burning an Eastern European flag or a Russian flag. Yet we know uranium is being mined, milled, enriched and used for energy in those places. 
One does not know the number of reactors in Russia or in some of the Eastern European countries. However we do know that they exist. I have had discussions with people in East Germany who have said quite openly that they mine uranium, send it to Russia for enrichment and then get the enriched uranium back to use in their own nuclear reactors. I will not give the source of my information because the people might be in trouble, but it is a fact of political life that this is what is happening. Yugoslavia also has a nuclear reactor. Those countries cannot understand why we are taking so long to mine our uranium. Of course there is a difference between our systems and we have to make sure that this Parliament and the country have sufficient time to debate the question. 
Honourable senators from the Australian Labor Party today have stated quite emphatically that they are opposing this legislation. They have also spent some time in condemning certain aspects of and particular points in the legislation. In totality, honourable senators opposite are still opposed to the amending legislation. The Labor Party at its conference in Perth proposed a moratorium on uranium mining. One wonders how much longer that moratorium will continue. One also wonders how many members of the Labor Party deep down are in favour of the mining of uranium. As we know, they are tied to a federal policy and so they will support their Party decision. I do not say that in any derogatory way whatsoever but I say it to show clearly that there is a division of thinking in this country about the mining of uranium and that division even exists within the political party to which honourable senators sitting opposite us in this chamber today belong. That division is also present in the trade unions. 
We know that there are many trade unionssome powerful trade unions- that are wholeheartedly in favour, and have publicly expressed that they are in favour, of the mining and the exporting of uranium whilst there are other trade unions that are diametrically opposed to the mining of uranium.  Senator Colston  said that he and many of his friends in the Labor Party will be doing all within their power to make sure, even if this legislation is passed, that the mining will not get under way. They might also have to deal with a few people who may be Labor supporters in the sense that they belong to certain unions affiliated with the Labor Party and yet those unionists themselves and their unions are in favour of the mining of uranium. An article in the Press stated: 
In Sydney, yesterday - 
The article appeared prior to the Parliament resuming-  the national secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union,  Mr Pat  Clancy, said that Soviet trade unionists supported their country's nuclear energy development program because they were satisfied with Soviet nuclear safeguards. 
Russian workers were confident that their country's nuclear wastes were being disposed of safely. 

 Mr Clancy was speaking on his return from Moscow where he attended celebrations marking the 60th anniversary of the Russian revolution. 
He said that Russians were developing nuclear energy as part of their 5-year plan, which had been discussed by everyone involved in the industry. 
So one can see in that report that there is no criticism whatsoever of the Russians; a statement is made as to what is happening. Unfortunately when uranium is mentioned some people tend to become rather emotive and see it in the form of a mushroom cloud going up into the sky, and they recall Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I wish to quote from the Windscale report.  Mr Justice  Parker conducted an inquiry into the reprocessing of uranium in the United Kingdom. This report came out only a few weeks ago. Page 3 of that report states: 
It is the lack of such information which renders the public or some members of it suspicious of those who operate the nuclear industry and exposes them to anxieties which are needless. In saying this I do not intend to imply that there are no grounds for anxiety in certain respects. There clearly are. It is equally clear, however, that many of the anxieties which are felt are without foundation and spring from a fear of anything nuclear, no doubt partly due to the fact that the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs with their devastating effects were the opening events in the development of nuclear power. 
I think that is a very valid statement. To go further, anti-uranium lobbyists also tend to create very emotive situations in the community and at times come out with some fairly hefty propaganda that tends to mislead people. Whilst I might be taking up some time, nevertheless I think I should give one example. On page 70, paragraph 13.3, of the Windscale report  Mr Justice  Parker states:  . . I was shown a film entitled 'Caging the Dragon' ... It dealt to a large extent with the question of safety at Windscale. At the beginning of the film there was a shot of Windscale closely followed by pictures of a man who had suffered severe radiation burns. Shortly thereafter there was a reference to a fire which had occurred in 1 957 in one of the original reactors at Windscale followed by a sequence showing huge flames emerging from the top of a tower. Pictures of these flames were repeated twice more during the course of the film. 
He then goes on to say that when he made further inquiries he was informed that the pictures of the flames were in fact pictures of the flames from a flare stack at a coke works in Sheffield, miles away, and that the pictures of the radiation victim had been taken from a medical journal and represented the victim of an accident in connection with the weapons industry in the United States of America. He gave that as an example of how misleading the propaganda can be on so many occasions. He expressed an extreme concern at this fact and at how emotions can be stirred up in people by such misleading information. 
In previous debates in this place we have mentioned that Australia is a very fortunate country because it is not short of energy resources, with the exception of crude oil. But many countries that are not so fortunate are very concerned about the impending energy gap. They are also very much aware that as time goes on this energy gap will become progressively worse. Figures that have been taken out on the consumption of energy in the world show an average rate of growth of some  V-h  per cent in consumption over the last 50 years. If we take that as the base figure, it has been estimated that some two and a half times more energy will be required by the year 2000 than was used in all previous years. I shall give some figures in connection with the main energy resources. They are 1975 figures- I have been unable to get later ones. In 1 975 oil supplied some 45 per cent of the world's energy needs; coal supplied 30 per cent; natural gas supplied 18 per cent; and hydro-electric and geothermal power supplied some 5.7 per cent. It has been stated that those resources are not likely to contribute any greater percentage in the future. 
There is a limited amount of oil and natural gas in the world. It has been estimated that at the present rate of consumption, and taking into consideration also present known reserves, oil could be depleted in some 30 years or more, natural gas in a little longer period, and brown coal and black coal could last for about 200 years. One can see clearly that the world had decided to go nuclear because of the limitations upon the reserves of energy resources. When I say that the world has decided to go nuclear, we in Australia have had nothing to say about or no influence whatsoever over the decision made by other countries. I think that is the point that we have to make. I heard  Senator Colston  say today that of course we do not have to supply other countries with uranium; we will not have the trouble with proliferation because, if we do not supply uranium, it will not arise. Let me assure  Senator Colston  that the world has gone nuclear and will continue to expand its nuclear facilities. There is a world demand for uranium and there will be a world shortage of uranium particularly if we do not supply. All that will do will be to send up the price of uranium, relatively increasing the reserves of uranium around the world. 
Most countries can get uranium in their own countries at a price. Any coastal state can obtain uranium from the sea if it is prepared to pay the price, which runs into hundreds of dollars per lb. No country is likely to do that unless it has extreme reasons for needing it. In answer to comments made earlier by  Senator Colston,  the sort of country which might do that would be the country which wanted to make an atomic bomb but could not get any uranium any other way. In that case price would not matter. At the present time there are some 194 nuclear power plants in the world in some 20-odd countries. Some 213 further plants are under construction, and another 100 plants are on order. According to my figures, another 307 nuclear reactor plants are in the planning stages. This shows just how much the world has decided to go nuclear. 
One of the interesting countries is Iran. Last week in Canberra the Iranian Deputy Prime Minister and senior members of the Iranian Administration had discussions with some members of our ministry concerning Iran's requirement of some 1,000 tonnes of uranium per annum. Let me remind the Senate that, as I understand it, Iran is the second biggest oil producing oil country in the world, with exports totalling some 5,300,000-odd barrels of oil a day. Yet Iran has decided to go nuclear. It already has two nuclear reactors under construction and is planning to have another 20 reactors operational by the 1990s. It hopes to have another eight or nine reactors operating by 1 985. This is a country which is sitting on great supplies of what is rapidly becoming a scarce energy source, yet this country is prepared to share that energy source and at the same time to make sure that in the interests of conservation and looking to the future it will go nuclear. Iran could easily sell much less of its oil if it wished, still be a wealthy country and not have to worry about going nuclear. 
I think this is a good example for the Opposition. We are an energy rich country. We are sitting on a source of energy which the world is requiring because the world has decided to go nuclear. Yet honourable senators opposite are saying that they do not want Australia to go nuclear for certain reasons, making many claims, such as that it would be dangerous to do so et cetera. I do not think that Australia should ever get the image of being a selfish country. That is the image we will get if we do not share and accept our responsibilites towards those countries which are facing what will be in the not too distant future an energy problem and eventually an energy crisis unless something is done to close the gap. 
It has been mentioned that coal could help to fill the gap. Yes, coal will help, but there are limitations on coal- both economic and physical. Heaps of comparisons have been made between uranium and coal. In a normal nuclear reactor 1 lb of uranium has the heat equivalent of some 20,000 lb of black coal. With a fast breeder 1 lb of uranium has the heat equivalent of some 2 million lb of black coal. So we would have to transport a terrific amount of coal to fill the energy gap sufficiently to meet all the requirements of the world. So on the economic side alone there would be great limitations on the ability of coal ever to fill the gap. I repeat, the world has decided this, not Australia. That is why the world has turned nuclear. It has been estimated also that at present deaths in coal-fired power plants are 1 1 times higher than deaths in the nuclearpowered plants with the same generating capacity and that injuries in the coal industry, because of the volume of work undertaken, are seven times higher than injuries in the nuclear industry. That estimate comes from an atomic industrial forum which was held in the United States in 1975. 
Concern has been expressed about radiation. Workers at the Atomic Research Centre at Lucas Heights in Australia get something like 100 rem of radiation per annum- a rem is a measure of radiation. It is interesting to note that if one takes an air trip from Sydney to Perth one gets some 3 rem of radiation. If one goes from Sydney to London one gets 1 7 rem. So if one kept travelling for long enough one would get a lot more radiation than one would ever get working in a nuclear reactor station. The Windscale Inquiry has made it perfectly clear that there are no great problems regarding radiation in reactors at all. I should like to quote again from the report by  Mr Justice  Parker on Windscale. Dealing again with risk factors, he stated: 
If, however, such a person is told that, as has been estimated, such risk ( 1 in a million) is the same as that involved in smoking 1  Vi  cigarettes, travelling SO miles by car or 2S0 miles by air, rock climbing for 90 seconds, canoeing for 6 minutes, engaging in ordinary factory work for 1-2 weeks or simply being a male aged 60 for 20 minutes, it would mean a great deal to him. 
If a man is asked if he will accept a 100 per cent increase on a natural risk he may well be alarmed and say that he will not. If he is told that the increased risk is merely the same as any one of the above list, particularly perhaps the last, he would probably consider himself, and be considered by others, to be of exceptionally timorous nature . . . 
Yet the risks involved in those situations would be the same as those for a man working in a nuclear station. One could go on and give more examples, which  Mr Justice  Parker has given. So much has been said about the problem of radiation and so much has been totally misunderstood by people in the community because so much has been fed to them which is entirely wrong. 
Criticism was made today about the fact that we are amending the Atomic Energy Act, because on a previous occasion we did not support a Labor Bill to amend the Act in this place. Let me say firstly that there is a history to all of this. We all recall the introduction into this place of a Bill known as the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, which sought to nationalise the mining industry of Australia. We were not prepared to accept that and in due course we rejected the legislation. The same thing happened with regard to regulations which were proposed by the previous Whitlam Government to be included in the Atomic Energy Act. We refused to accept them because we were not prepared to see any industry, in this case the mining industry, being nationalised by backdoor methods. It is interesting to note that the Memorandum of Understanding which was drawn up and agreed to by the previous Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasiathe two companies involved in the proposed Ranger mining project- includes the following in sub-clause 6 (e): 
In particular, Australia- 
Shall grant any necessary and appropriate authorities under the Atomic Energy Act. The initial authority shall be granted for a period of twenty-one years. 
This shows clearly that the Labor Party was prepared eventually to work by democratic means, not socialistic means, to involve itself in work under the Atomic Energy Act. It is interesting also to consider sub-clause 6 (a) of the Memorandum of Understanding, which states: 
The relevant proportions of contributions of capital from time to time including working capital shall be: 
The Commission-72½ percent 
Peko- 13¾ percent 
EZ- 1 3¾ percent. 
In that case the Commission was the Atomic Energy Commission, the government agency- in other words, the Government. The Memorandum of Understanding goes on to state in subclause 6 (c): 
. Peko and EZ shall each be entitled to receive the nett annual proceeds of the sale of 25 per cent of the uranium concentrate produced by the Ranger Project. 
In other words, under the Memorandum of Understanding those two companies were to receive 50 per cent and the Government was to receive 50 per cent of the net return even though the Whitlam Government was prepared to put in some 72 per cent of the capital. 
It was signed by  Mr Whitlam, Dr Cairns  and a few other people. The signatures are all there on the document. The Prime Minister has made it clear that he is not happy with the position.  Mr Newman,  the Minister for National Development, stated in his second reading speech on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill that the Prime Minister:   . . indicated that this Government is most conscious that the Memorandum of Understanding would not have been our preferred approach to mineral development. However, the Government would not wish to disturb arrangements entered into in good faith by the companies with the previous Government. 
That is an important point to remember when criticism is continually levelled against the Government because it is making amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. There is a great need for us to accept our responsibilities in this country and to make sure that we do not develop further the energy gap that is widening throughout the world today. I want to repeat that Australia has not forced other countries to adopt the use of nuclear power. They have made their own decisions. Countries as diverse as Russia and Switzerland have made this decision. Switzerland, one of the most peaceful countries in the world and the home of the International Red Cross, has gone nuclear. These countries have gone nuclear because they could see that there is no alternative to fill the energy gap than nuclear power generation. Once a decision was made to adopt nuclear power and a great number of nuclear reactors were established and proposed to be established throughout the world, a need existed to make sure that a sufficient volume of uranium was available as feedstock for those nuclear reactors. If we do not ensure this, we will be forcing countries to hasten the development of fast breeder nuclear reactors. 
Rather than express my opinions on whether Australia should mine uranium, in the time remaining to me I would like to refer to other very important comments. Firstly, let me say briefly that  Senator Colston,  speaking on behalf of the Australian Labor Party in the debate today, has said that nuclear waste is a problem.I suggest to honourable senators who say this that perhaps they should look to what is happening in France. By 1985, France will introduce vitrification processes whereby uranium waste can be held in an almost insoluble state. The report of the Windscale inquiry states that a major plant will be operating in the United Kingdom either in the mid or late 1980s. We know that West Germany is introducing a similar process. Technology will continue to advance. I will not accept the rationale of the Opposition that one of the main reasons it will not support this legislation is on the basis of the nuclear waste problem. There is a great need for us to commence the mining of uranium. In this way Australia also can have a say with regard to the International Atomic Agency, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, et cetera. As a big exporter of uranium, Australia can have a big voice in these important areas. At this stage, I wish to quote from what I think are very important statements made by people who hold responsible positions. I refer firstly to what was stated by  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, in July 1977. He said:  lam not convinced as a matter or intellectual integrity of the arguments for leaving uranium in the ground. If we leave it in the ground, we have done nothing about the dangers, the disposal of nuclear waste, about terrorists acquiring weapons, nothing about people occupied in the generating plants in West Germany, Japan and the United States. 

 Mr Hawke goes on to state: 
. no one has yet shown that by keeping Australian uranium in the ground we would do anything about these dangers. 
I regard that as a very sound statement. I would like to state to the Senate the summary of the main conclusions at the World Energy Conference held in Istanbul, Turkey, in 1 977. There is not time to read all the conclusions. However, the conference stated: 
With the doubling of world population to 8 billion people, world energy demand is expected to grow by between 3 and 4 times . . . Because of the declining oil resources and production towards the end of the century there will need to be a tremendous effort of substitution, particularly by means of coal and nuclear fuels. . . . The projected increase in electricity demand cannot possibly be met without a major contribution from nuclear power including breeder reactor application. . . . Despite maximum efforts to promote, by research and development and other means, the development of alternative renewable energy sources, no hope is seen for such energy sources providing more than a minor contribution by the end of the period. 
That is the year 2000. The summary continues: 
Thus solar energy use will increase substantially to the point that at the end of the period considered it will provide as much useful energy as that provided by electricity at the present time - 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the light of the condemnation by the United Nations of the South African incursion into Angola recently against the South West African People's Organisation's external raider  forces. What steps are Australia and the United Nations talcing on the build-up of foreign Cuban forces in the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea and the reported big build-up of Cuban forces in Zambia? Will Australia speak out and encourage a strong stand against the Cuban troops forcefully interfering in the domestic issues of other countries? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware of the publicity in last week's Press concerning Chrysler Australia and, in particular, the matter of the 85 per cent Australian content' plan. Is the Minister also aware that the main problem concerning the 85 per cent Australian content plan relates to the current high value of the Japanese yen, which has tended to place a superficial value on the Australian content of some of Chrysler's motor vehicles? Does this not also apply to some other sections of the motor vehicle industry in Australia? Further, will not the introduction of the locally produced Astron motor engine in the Chrysler Sigma greatly increase the local content in this range of motor vehicles generally? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It follows my question yesterday dealing with the requirement for an 85 per cent local content in the motor vehicles of Chrysler Australia Ltd, particularly in relation to the superficial value of the Australian content due to the current high value of the Japanese yen. Has the Minister obtained any further information for the Senate from the Minister for Industry and  Commerce  on the matter of Australian content of cars manufactured by Chrysler Australia Ltd? 
This debate concerns three Bills that are all directly related to and associated with environmental protection. They are three Bills of a package of five Bills, two of which we have dealt with already to some extent. I refer to the AtomicEnergy Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. Of the five Bills, there are three dealing with environmental matters, each covering specific areas. They are the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, which is more localised, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill, which deals with much broader areas but which still deals with conservation and protection of the environment and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. 
These Bills to some extent, one could say, are the result of the Ranger Inquiry, because in them many of the major recommendations there propounded have been taken up, to ensure that they will be put into practice. I have heard the Opposition today express concern over many aspects of the proposed legislation, concern with regard to the risks of the environment. I have also heard a lot of criticism from other countries about the strict, rigid terms of the Government's guidelines for the marketing of uranium. They are probably among the strictest that any country has laid down. We have likewise laid down strong guidelines in these three Bills which, I repeat, deal with the environment. That is a matter which is of extreme concern to the Government. 
I am troubled a little to hear mention of such things as the risk of radon gas. Yes, radon gas is a deadly gas. Centuries ago in some European countries, during mining operations associated with the making of ceramics, a mysterious illness killed a number of miners. Eventually it was found that this was due to the presence of radon gas from underground uranium mining. I emphasise, first, that we are not talking about underground mines. We are talking about opencut mines, and I become weary of the antiuranium lobby which keeps saying that these things are dangerous. The average housewife of this country faces death many times a day. She is only marginally away from death every time she switches on a light. Every time she picks up an iron the insulation on the electrical cord against her arm is the only thing that is between her and death. Steam trains are dangerous. If one keeps stoking them and does not watch the pressures they will blow up. Therefore, one would have to say that steam trains are dangerous. Similarly, radon gas is dangerous. 
I would like to refer to the report of the Windscale inquiry conducted by  Mr Justice  Parker in England, a document to which I have referred previously in debates on uranium. For the information of honourable senators, I would note that Windscale was one of the earliest nuclear energy research centres set up in any country. Windscale has a history of practicality and I refer now to the report of a further inquiry that has taken place concerning its activities. On the environmental aspect  Mr Justice  Parker refers at page 33 to the effect of emissions as follows: 
The emissions from coal burning stations which were considered when making the statements quoted include sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carcinogenic hydrocarbons, radioactive and other particulates and heavy metals. 
He goes on to state that: 
. coal, however, carries its own risks which, quite apart from the risks from mining, which might be described as voluntarily accepted by miners, are every bit as much imposed as are the risks from nuclear plants. Indeed, such risks also include risks from radioactive emissions, a fact which is not widely known. 
Again, one hears many criticisms, concerns and fears about plutonium. Let me make it clear that 1 also have a fear of it. We know that it is a natural element required in nuclear explosions. On the other hand,  Mr Justice  Parker went to great lengths to discount much of the rumour and fear, that are circulated on this subject amongst the community. He states that it is true: 
That plutonium is a bomb making material. That if plutonium reaches a critical mass there will be a chain reaction . . . 
That in certain circumstances plutonium is very dangerous to man. 
That plutonium, if released into the environment, persists for a very long time. 
But he then states:  lt is not true that plutonium never existed until man man made it. 
He goes into some detail on that aspect and then states further:  lt is not true that plutonium is highly radioactive. It is not true that plutonium has only two uses, making bombs and making electricity commercially. Plutonium 238 is used within the body as the power source for heart pacemakers. 
One cannot get much closer to the nervous system than that,  Mr Acting President. Mr Justice  Parker added: 
It is not true that in all circumstances very small amounts of plutonium are lethal. Insoluble particles when inhaled certainly are hazardous in small quantities. Considerably larger amounts could be eaten without appreciable harm. 
It is not true that plutonium is only safe when protected by massive shielding. As regards shielding from its radiation, it could be sat on safely by a person with no greater protection than, as Professor  Fremlin  put it, 'a stout pair of jeans '. 
And so one could go on. Although 1 may be digressing a little, I mention those findings to show how people in a community can be misled. My concern at the moment is that the community can be misled by statements about, as some people would put it, the lack of concern, where it is proposed to mine uranium in the Northern Territory, for the protection of the environment. The Government is doing all that it possibly can, as I said earlier, in regard to marketing by way of its guidelines, and in regard to mining and the protection of the environment generally in the area of the Northern Territory where that mining is to take place. 
I appreciate that that area has a scenic beauty which is unique unto itself and that this must be protected. It has wildlife. It has so much there. It has the Aboriginals, who must also be taken into consideration. All of this is being done by the Government. No doubt, if later it appears that certain aspects of that protection need strengthening or even modifying, that will be done by the Government. Already, subsequent to the passage of these Bills in the other place, the Government has seen fit to introduce amendments to them, demonstrating clearly that it is accepting its responsibilities; that it will continue to do so. 
I mentioned earlier that the major content of these three Bills results from the report of the Fox inquiry, one that took place not over one or two months but over an extremely long period. It was an in-depth inquiry. In fact, there was concern that it was perhaps taking too long, that there was great delay with regard to the overall aspects of the uranium issue. Nevertheless the report finally came out. It has been studied by the Government in depth, and great notice of it has been taken. One can go through these Bills and relate so much of them to the Fox report itself. 
I was very pleased to see, first, that the Government will now give more representation to the Northern Territory legislature. Previously I had been concerned that the Territory, which is rapidly approaching statehood, would not be represented in regard to certain areas. I am glad that the Government has responded to the concern expressed in the Territory and has seen fit to make amendments to the legislation that will result in a greater involvement of that Territory's legislators. In dealing with the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, which concerns a local area, we can see very clearly just how much effort is being put into making sure that there will be environmental control and protection; that the Government will even go as far as to make sure that those activities are coordinated 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I referred to the Government's approach to protection, particularly in the Alligator Rivers region which is the subject of one of the Bills before us. I pointed out that the Government had accepted responsibilities with regard to the overall aspects of the environment in the whole uranium area in the Northern Territory. I said that the Government was also very conscious of the need for environment protection generally speaking and for safeguards and guidelines with respect to the sale of uranium. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech said that the Government has taken the appropriate action in introducing stringent requirements with regard to environmental protection in the Alligator Rivers region. In this area the Government has decided to appoint a co-ordinating committee or a consultative committee. I am also very pleased to see that the Government has included on the committee two representatives from the Northern Territory. There was concern that there would be a lack of representation from the Northern Territory. 
I think it is extremely important that the Government has taken this step.  Senator Cavanagh  made an interjection in respect of Aboriginals. The answer to his interjection is that the Government has taken this action. The Government has made sure that not only will it do all it can to protect the environment but also it will enlist the right type of representation from this area to serve on the consultative committee. 
Not only has the Government set up a consultative committee with a supervising scientist, to whom  Senator Jessop  referred this morning when he spoke to this legislation, but also it has gone further and set up a research institute to ensure that the work will not be purely observational but will involve research to make sure that the environment both in the short and long terms will be protected. When I say 'protected' I use a capital 'P' because this is the aim of the Government in this area. The Government will make sure that there are strict environmental controls and safeguards generally in this region where mining is to take place. Members of that committee will come from areas covering a very broad spectrum. They will come from the mining side of the industry and from the representation side including the Federal Government, Aboriginal bodies and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The committee will also include people with specific qualifications. As such it will be able to assess fully and watch closely the environmental impact in this area. This, of course, is related to the research institute. 
The Opposition today criticised certain aspects of the legislation. We heard the same type of thing the other day when we dealt with amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. But one can only say that the members of the Opposition are nit-picking or playing a game of political charades because what they should be doing with their attitude on the mining of uranium is standing up and saying: 'We oppose the lot'. But they have not done this. They keep referring to amendments. They have moved an amendment in respect of this legislation. I challenge members of the Opposition- not that I will support their proposed amendment- to say that if we were to accept their amendment they would accept the mining of uranium in Australia. The truth is that they would not.  Senator Melzer  shakes her head and says 'no 'on behalf of her party. Therefore to me the Opposition's amendments are a farce. We cannot describe the situation in any other way. Many members of the Opposition are in favour of mining but they are bound by their policy. 
When the vote on the second reading of a previous Bill was taken two members of the Liberal Party crossed the floor and sat on the other side, not because they were opposed to the mining of uranium but because they were concerned about certain aspects within that proposed legislation. We do not see this happening on the other side of the chamber. What we have seen is members of the Opposition proposing certain amendments when in reality and truth they are opposed in totality to the mining of uranium. Why do not members of the Opposition stand up and say that? On top of this last week I received a telex- I presume every other South Australian senator received the same thing- from the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia in which he expressed concern about certain areas of the proposed package of legislation. He said: 
I ask you to support your State of South Australia and exercise your responsibilities as senator to this end. 
Quite frankly I take exception to this telex because it asks us to stand up and oppose some aspects of proposed legislation. This is despite the fact that the Government of South Australia stands publicly and states that it is opposed in totality to the mining and exporting of uranium. 
It is interesting to look at what the actual position is in South Australia. We know that  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, over a number of years had discussions with the previous Whitlam Government. He is having discussions, indirectly through agencies of the State Government, with the current Government on the feasibility of the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia. Enrichment is Stage 3 or 4 of the mining of uranium. First one explores for it; if one finds it one then proves it to be an economic mine. Secondly, one mines it. Thirdly, one mills it and processes it. Fourthly, one enriches it. Enriched material will be exported because there is no nuclear reactor in Australia that will require an enrichment plant. Therefore this discussion on the feasibility of the establishment of an enrichment plant is purely for the export of uranium from Australia, in particular from South Australia. Yet that State Government has the audacity to send telexes to State senators of South Australia and also to stand and say that it is opposed to the mining of uranium. 
We are also aware that on top of this the Mines Department in South Australia, an agency of the State Government, directed by the State Government, was a client of Amdel (Aspect) Pollution Consultants in South Australia doing research at South Australian taxpayers ' expense on the exploitation of uranium by the leaching process. Yet the South Australian Government still stands and says that it is opposed to the mining of uranium. We know that in South Australia the green light has been given to a predominantly German firm to explore for uranium within 30 kilometres north and south of Adelaide, the capital city of South Australia. We also know that exploration is still taking place in the Olary province. I refer particularly to Plumbago Station. I referred to that aspect on another occasion when we were debating uranium in this place. I was challenged by  Senator McLaren  when I stated that the South Australian Government had given the green light for exploration in areas of South Australia close to historical Aboriginal sites. 
I have been in touch with a woman in South Australia who has taken a very keen interest in this matter. She is the Honorary Inspector of the Aboriginal and Historic Relics Preservation Act.  Her  name is  Mrs M.  F. Nobbs.  Her  address is 8 Hazelwood Avenue, Hazelwood Park, South Australia.  Mrs Nobbs  in correspondence to me and also in discussions I have had with her has stated that there is a list of dreaming sites on the Plumbago Historic Reserve. It has been declared an historic reserve. In answer to my queries following criticism which I received from one of the Opposition senators,  Mrs Nobbs  stated in her letter: 
The term sacred is capable of many interpretations and the Historic Reserve is 'sacred' in the sense of containing very valuable  archaeologically  important occupation sites. 
In another letter to me, she stated: 
If the Government is sincere about its opposition to the mining of uranium why is it permitting very extensive exploration activities on a proclaimed historic Reserve? 
But the difference is that we are standing up and dealing with environmental aspects, openly saying that we are in favour of the mining of uranium. However, the South Australian Government says that it is opposed to the mining of uranium and that it is opposed to doing so many things in relation to uranium. Yet it is allowing exploration to take place close to Aboriginal sacred sites. Let me make it clear that I do not condemn the State Government for this action but I do condemn it for its political hypocrisy. That is what I am condemning. In respect of environmental protection, the Government is doing all that it can to make sure that the environment is protected. However in respect of the environment,  Mrs Nobbs  in a letter to me stated: 
. over 1,000 drill holes have been put down since August, pits have been dug to bury unwanted samples and to store uranium for testing purposes, thus rendering the earth sterile. 
It is interesting to read her comments. She is talking about a government that is opposed to the mining of uranium but which, to quote her, has allowed over 1,000 drill holes to be put down specifically for uranium, not for other minerals. This morning there was talk about the problems of radon gas resulting from material from open cut mining being brought to the surface. Here is the Dunstan Government in South Australia doing the same, but is the Opposition standing up and condemning that Government for its actions? Silence reigns supreme. The manager of the station in the Olary Province has stated that drilling has been done very close to Aboriginal sites and environmental damage from drilling has not been repaired. Let me make it clear that I am expressing concern but am not condemning the South Australian Government for one moment for the exploration for uranium. However, I condemn that Government for the double standards it is adopting on this issue. I condemn it openly and, I hope, sufficiently that the Opposition will take some notice of what is being said. 
I have a copy of correspondence dated 13 January 1978 from the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, who is also the Minister for the Environment in that State, to  Mrs Nobbs  in which he said: 
We believe it is important to evaluate the resource base in an area, and Plumbago, as a specific example. Accordingly the Department for the Environment has permitted limited exploration . . . 
Is 1,000 drill holes limited exploration? 

 - Mrs Nobbs has given me the figure of 1 , 000 drill holes. We are now talking about the environment and the concern which is being expressed by a State government which has sent me and no doubt you,  Mr President,  as a South Australian senator, a telex criticising the Federal Government because the Federal Government is openly bringing in legislation to protect the environment and doing all it can to make sure that the environment is protected. Yet the State Government is conducting these activities without saying to the public what it is doing, although it says that it is opposed to the mining of uranium. I now come to the interesting part of the letter from the Minister for the Environment. He said: 
Nowhere within the Aboriginal and Historic Relics Preservation Act, 1967, are mining or exploration activities excluded or prohibited from historic reserves. 
In other words he is saying: 'We have an Act over which we have total control. We have the numbers in South Australia to change that Act. The Act of 1 967 says that we can do these things so we are going to do them. At the same time we will condemn the Federal Government for what it is doing openly and honestly'. It is on this point that the Opposition senators have to take stock of themselves. Then the Minister goes on to refer to uranium minerals within the host rock- I will not read the earlier verbiage in the letter because it will take too long- and spells out that uranium is the specific mineral to which the State Government is referring and the specific mineral for which the companies are exploring, hoping that they can exploit it. In his letter he then said: 
Each stage of explorations carried out by the companies in the past seven years has added to the knowledge of the ore body and has defined additional mineralisation. 
One can go on and on. In reply to  Mrs Nobbs'  correspondence and complaints, and let us not forget that she is the honorary inspector under the Aboriginal Historic Relics Preservation Act in South Australia, he later stated: 
Your further charge that considerable damage has been done to one extensive and very old campsite, and there has been disturbance to hearths and the disappearance of large implements is accepted. 
I also have statements from the manager of the property on which many cave paintings have been damaged- in fact, some cannot be repaired- and nothing has been done to repair them. There has been a change of portfolio in South Australia. Since  Mr Corcoran  has been Minister, there has been a change in approach. Today there are more restrictions and there will be some ministerial direction. I make that clear with due respect to  Mr Corcoran,  the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia. However, he is not the State Government, only a member of it, and it is the overall policy of that Government to which I am referring and which I am condemning. 
We then reach another very interesting point with regard to the leaching process. I mentioned earlier the research that has been done and is being done by Amdel (Aspect) Pollution Consultants, the Australian minerals group in South Australia and one of the major research centres in Australia. The Department of Mines has been a client of Amdel with regard to research into the leaching process. I heard  Senator Mulvihill  today very genuinely and sincerely express concern about the pollution of water in the Alligator Rivers Region and I accept his concern and so does the Government. The Government is watching it and it is going to have it researched and set up a consultative committee to make sure that these matters can be watched closely so damage will not be done but, if it is, it will be minimal. One would expect that with this research and the consultative committee we will be able to ensure that damage is not done. The Minister in his letter to  Mrs Nobbs  also stated: 
Leaching does not contravene the Water Resources Act. 
Of course it does not contravene the Act, but who is in charge of changing the Act to make sure that it does if there is concern about the environment and about uranium? It is the State Government. What has it done? Nothing! The Minister then goes on to say: 
The effects of leaching upon the aquifers are being studied in the Kalkaroo area to the north of Plumbago, and in Texas where the Texas Pollution Council has undertaken detailed studies on uranium leaching over a number of years. The aquifers in the Kalkaroo area do not constitute a major groundwater resource because of the exceptionally high salinities. 
So, it is not drinking or stock water but it is water that flows and it can be polluted. He then stated: 
The leaching process being tested uses alkaline solutions and the addition of such solutions should not significantly impair - 
I am quoting the Minister; it is not what I have said. The Minister stated: 
. should noi significantly impair the quality of the groundwater within the uranium ore body. 
Let me make it clear that we are discussing environmental aspects of the mining of uranium in the Ranger area. The South Australian Government has been looking at means by which it can leach uranium out of the ground- in other words, put it in a solution form and get it out of the ground. I stress that this is being contemplated where there is ground water. The South Australian Minister for the Environment has said that it should not significantly impair the quality of the ground water within the uranium ore body. Opposition senators have stood here today and, quite frankly, hypocritically condemned this legislation on the basis of four or five clauses and moves an amendment. They do not stand up and openly oppose the whole package deal on uranium. Here we have a State Government openly standing up and condemning this Government and sending South Australian senators telexes asking them to support its policy in South Australia. At the same time the South Australian Government is allowing exploration in its own State within a few kilometres of the city of Adelaide and in areas close to historic Aboriginal sites, causing concern to those who are in charge. According to the South Australian Government's claims it has put down 1,000 drill holes to enable it to study a process whereby uranium will be leached out of the ground, bringing it out in liquefied form. There is the great danger of much of this spreading into the underwater systems, but apparently because it is salty it does not matter. We are not discussing whether we will drink that water. What the Opposition is concerned about and what it is criticising us about is the lack of environmental safety. 
-Why does  Senator Melzer  not stand up and condemn the South Australian Government- and not just for the double standards it has. It is preaching one thing to the people and doing another thing behind their backs. It is also researching a process which is a greater risk of polluting the environment because of the underwater streams than anything that would take place in the Ranger area. That is what the issue is all about today for me as a South Australian. I have mentioned these things today because I had a telex sent to me. I ask the South Australian Government in turn to stand up as a government of this country and give support to a government in Canberra that is doing all it can to make sure that there will be environmental protection. The Federal Government has openly stated that it will mine and export uranium with stringent safeguards, both with regard to the sale of uranium and with regard to the conservation aspects of the environment in that area. The South Australian Government is saying that it is opposed to the mining of uranium; yet it is going ahead and encouraging exploration. It is going ahead with research into a leaching process. It is going ahead with a feasibility study in the hope that it will get an enrichment plant in South Australia. I hope it gets one, too; we need it. We need one in Australia and, as a South Australian, I should like to see one in my own State. But the double standards being adopted totally appal me. 
No doubt I will be criticised and condemned by some of the members of the South Australian Government for standing up and supporting the Federal Government in the stand it is taking with this package of Bills in relation to the mining and export of uranium. All I can say is that hypocrisy reigns supreme in South Australia at the present time. I will stand firmly behind this Government, which has declared its policy openly and in such a way as to assure me that it will take all the precautions it can, many of which are far more stringent than those of any other country. The Federal Government is conscious of the fact that there is a need to mine uranium. We in Australia have not told the world to go nuclear. But we in Australia are very conscious of the fact that there is an energy crisis- a crisis that will get greater and greater unless that gap is filled. The world itself has decided that it will go nuclear to make sure that it will avoid that energy crisis. We in this country have the resources to help the rest of the world. It is up to us to make sure that we do that so long as at the same time we support legislation such as is before the Senate at present. It is also up to us to make sure that if there is a need to close any gaps within that legislation the Government will- I know it will- accept its responsibilities. It will make sure that there will be protection of the environment generally and at the same time make sure that we meet our international responsibilities. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I do so having informed the Minister at an earlier hour that 1 would be asking this question. Has the Minister seen reports that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  hopes to raise overseas a loan of up to $200m to finance the infrastructure of the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliffs in South Australia? Has the Minister also seen reports that the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, has announced that there will be a big expansion of the alumina production in Western Australia which will require large amounts of caustic soda that could not be met at present by Australian production but could be supplied by a petrochemical plant such as that at Redcliffs? As South Australia is the most depressed State in Australia and would get a great boost from the establishment of such a project and as Australia also would obtain big advantages, particularly with regard to its overseas balance of payments, will the Treasurer and the Government give full support to  Mr Dunstan  's proposal to raise overseas a loan of $200m, subject to the terms and conditions of such a loan? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a previous question I asked regarding a Commonwealth transport desk and telephone being provided in a central position at the Adelaide Airport for the convenience of passengers particulary those from interstate. Is the Minister aware that Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines no longer allow paging at the airport to assist drivers in finding their passengers? This creates problems for many people particularly those from interstate. As more taxis than Commonwealth cars are currently being used it is difficult for passengers to identify readily their drivers who do not, of course, wear uniforms. Will the Minister give further consideration to the establishment of a central desk at the airport. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development been drawn to the report of the Australian Atomic Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977? Does the report indicate that there will be a market for Australian uranium in the 1 980s? 
I was not a member of Estimates Committee B but I did attend its meetings, as all honourable senators can do. I have some concern about the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I refer in particular to division 482. The Committee found it difficult to get answers on television aspects of the Australian Broadcasting Commission because the ABC did not have present anybody who was directly associated with that area. An explanation was received afterwards but I still express concern. Indeed, I express criticism. When departmental officers come before an Estimates committee they should anticipate that questions will be wide-ranging and penetrating. They should be in a position, in the main, to give answers to the Committee. That was not the case on this occasion. I felt extremely sorry for the representatives who appeared who, in their own way, did an extremely good job. 
We received answers from the Australian Broadcasting Commission regarding certain questions that were asked, some by me, at that Estimates Committee. I understood that we would receive further information in writing in regard to producers and producer's assistants. We have received some information but I am still not satisfied with the answers given. The information states that no producer or producer's assistant is idle, but it was admitted to the Committee at the hearing that some of the producers and producer's assistants were not fully occupied in their aspects of production because of cutbacks. Some of these people could be regarded as perhaps not being as fully occupied as one would expect many of the people within the ABC to be. I will quote from the replies that were given to Estimates Committee B and which were tabled in the Senate a couple of weeks ago. One reply states: 
ABC producers and producers' assistants are currently allocated to production work in all States. No producer or producer's assistant is idle. 
At page 195 of  Hansard  of Estimates Committee B on Thursday, 4 May, I asked: 
Could you also give us the number of producers and producers assistants who at present, whilst they are sitting in the ABC in that category are not actually doing anything with any programs? 
I was given the following answer 
Yes, but I think that figure would be very small. Really, it is people who are working at perhaps less than their full capacity. 
It appears to me that there is some sort of contradiction between that and the answer finally given to the Committee when it was stated specifically that no producer or producers' assistant is idle. I now ask: What type of work are they now doing and under what control are these people? As a result of the cutbacks in production of the ABC, do these people report to work every day? If so, who is responsible for making sure that these people report to work and are working- not slaving, let me make this clear- when they report to work? I think it is extremely important to have this information because no doubt in other areas within the ABC some people- I would like this answered- are not able at present to work at full production while others, because of the cutback in staff, are working under heavy loads. 
The broad question I ask the officers in the chamber today through the Minister is: How much of this load is divided between people who perhaps are not doing their specific jobs, such as producers or producers' assistants, and those people who might be slaving under heavy loads in order to spread the work more evenly throughout the whole staff of the ABC? To me that is very important. The one thing that I do not want to see is some sections of a body such as the ABC being heavily loaded at present- we hear this is happening- whilst others, because of a change in operation, if I can put it in that way, are not doing their work to full capacity. The only reason I have asked these questions today is because the answers we have received tend to contradict each other. 
I also raise a question with regard to a particular program that the ABC has shown. I have some figures which show that it paid for that program a lot more than was agreed to be the ceiling price to be paid by commercial television stations in Australia. The figure that has been quoted- it is public knowledge now because it has been presented to the Estimates Committeeis $5,764 for two showings Australia-wide. As I understand it, there have been more than two showings of this program. There is no need for me to say the name of the program. The officers present know to which program I am referring. 
It is  Soap.  I am sorry, I overlooked the point that the honourable senator did not know. The point is that the ABC is said to have paid $5,764 for two showings of it in Australia. There have been more than two showings. Even so this figure is still well in excess of the ceiling price that representatives of commercial television stations said would be the maximum price they would pay for any program at the time. So there is another big question mark with regard to the purchase of television programs from overseas. 
I do not know whether it was for one repeat. I could quote the maximum price which commercial television stations would have paid for such a program. It is far less than the price that the ABC has paid. The ABC was to have had two showings of the program but to my knowledge there have been more than two showings. I do not have a chance, like  Senator Colston,  to see many television programs. I have seen only part of one episode of this program. But the point is that the information I have is that there have been more than two showings. I would like to know whether that is correct. If it is correct that there have been more than two showings, why was the answer given in the Estimates Committee in the language that was used? 
Having made those remarks, I turn to another area. I refer to the questions asked about rent allowances. Members of the Committee questioned the representatives very heavily in that area. I appreciate that some assistance must be given to people who have to move interstate, because for some time there is an inconvenience, a vacuum, while those people try to find a house. Again I refer to the words used in the replies given to Committee members at page 28 of the  Hansard  of Estimates Committee B. With regard to 'rent allowance payable in respect of permanent transfers', I ask, firstly, what is meant by permanent transfers' as against temporary transfers? There is a big difference. I presume that people who move on a temporary transfer are paid a travelling allowance. For how long is that travelling allowance paid if the employees are being moved on a temporary basis? We have not been given an answer to this question. This is the sort of information that we want and that we have a right to be given. The exercise of an Estimates committee is to look into the appropriation of funds and the way in which those funds are administered. Unless we are given those answers, we will not be effective in our exercise, our operation and our responsibilities as members of this chamber who sit on various committees investigating the appropriations. 
I would also like to have some information with regard to rent assistance. It has been stated that, to some extent, the ABC works along similar lines to the general Public Service system, although the two systems are not entirely the same. The ABC is different with regard to administration. I would like to know: What is the actual position regarding rent assistance? For how long is rent assistance provided? Is it provided for those people on temporary transfers for 12 months or even two years? Are those people given a travelling allowance for all that time? Do they pick up rent assistance for all that period? What is the actual position? Secondly, when people are given rent assistance, what is the maximum amount paid by the ABC? As I understand it, a certain proportion of rent is paid by the individual and the rest is paid by an authority, such as the ABC. 
I can understand that for a short time assistance should be given on a temporary basis. But I cannot understand- as yet this question has not been answered- what is the position regarding an individual who leaves one capital city to go to another capital city, who rents his home and moves into a temporary home. If he is provided assistance in regard to paying the rent on his temporary home is consideration taken of the fact that he is receiving rent for his own home? I want to know, because this question has not been answered, whether the rent received from an individual who is employed by the ABC- it may be the same within the Public Service- for his private home is taken into consideration when he is assisted in paying rent on his temporary home in another city. I want the answer to this question. I hope we can receive an answer today. If it is the case that they can rent their homes at a profit and still receive assistance from the authorities by way of a rent subsidy in other places, I think it is time the Senate had a jolly good look at this aspect and made some recommendations about it. I do not see why people should have the opportunity of receiving such great benefits. There are one or two other aspects I would like to mention later. I see that my time is nearly up. I hope that the Minister can reply to some of these points after seeking advice from her departmental officers. 
-I do not wish to take up a great deal of the time of the Senate. I say, with a great deal of respect and sympathy for the officers who came before the Estimates Committee, that they faced a rather difficult task as they were not competent to answer many of the questions that were asked with relation to specific areas. I know that that difficulty will be rectified next time, as also will be the problem which arises when Estimates Committees are presented basically with what can be called single line entries. This also creates problems. We get some explanations in the explanatory notes. This matter also has been noted by the officers who were present that day. We look forward next time to having a broader description of expenditures and also broader representation. I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for her comments. 
I still have one query. It relates to the answers we were given concerning fares and travelling allowances. For television services, amounts of $297,608 for fares and $315,052 for travelling allowances were provided. When we look at Radio Australia, we see that the amount for fares is $49,129 while travelling allowances are down to a minimal amount of $18,236. 1 do not expect an answer on this question today. There is probably a very simple explanation. It is a matter on which I would like an answer, if possible. I ask the Minister whether she will attend to it also. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it not a fact that trade between Australia and Taiwan has increased from about $208m in 1973 to about $459m in 1977 or, in other words, by 120 per cent in four years? Is the Minister aware that Australia ranks as the seventh most important country trading with Taiwan and that amongst the top ten trading countries it is the only country that does not maintain relationships on any level with Taiwan? Is the Minister also aware that of the top trading countries, the United States of America and Saudi Arabia have full diplomatic relations and that Japan, the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Canada, West Germany, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand all maintain a de facto relationship? I ask: As Australia does so much trade with Taiwan- a trade that has increased greatly in the last few years- why will Australia not afford some recognition to Taiwan instead of virtually trading through the back door, particularly as it is good enough for countries such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan to afford such recognition? 
I direct a question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Transport or the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Does the Minister recall that I put to him a series of questions in relation to the efficiency of emission controls on motor vehicles, particularly their percentage efficiency in relation to exhaust gases such as carbon monoxide, and also the effect of lead additives in petrol? As emission controls on motor vehicles are extremely inefficient in that they greatly increase fuel consumption, will the Minister endeavour to obtain an answer to my question so that some assessment can be made of whether emission controls which are not necessary in so many parts of Australia, and which quite frankly were really introduced to assist pollution control in cities such as Sydney and Melbourne, are really efficient and worth while? 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was pleased to hear  Senator Wheeldon  say that he and the Australian Labor Party are opposed to retrospective legislation, particularly in this area. I am of the same opinion. However, I do not look upon this legislation dealing with tax avoidance as being retrospective legislation. Many people in Australia were aware from what the then Treasurer, now the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  said when he introduced the last Budget that some legislation could be introduced. But those people were hell bent on doing all they could for their own benefit to adopt the Curran scheme in order to avoid tax or, to put it another way, to welsh on their fellow Australians. This has cost the country many millions of dollars and in turn has affected all people who legitimately pay their taxes, even though they may employ tax consultants who do their utmost to legally minimise the tax paid by their clients. 
The Curran scheme has been described in many statements and editorials in the Press as a total rip-off. The Government has introduced this legislation having given fair warning of it but without having been specific. I accept the criticism that has been made in this respect. Nevertheless the legislation will affect incomes in the current financial year- we are still dealing with the current year- but if the Government had done nothing, the people using the Curran scheme would have been receiving benefits for the next two to five years. So, rather than look upon this legislation as retrospective I look upon it in completely the reverse way in view of the benefits that could be obtained from tax avoidance schemes in future years. I totally support the moves of the Government in this area. I appreciate the fact that there always will be loopholes and that it will be very difficult to close all of them. I am glad that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has accepted the suggestion and that he will always give notice of impending tax legislation. From the day that notice is given people using certain practices for total tax avoidance will be pulled up by some dragnet legislation. I felt that I should refer to those matters in this chamber to make my position clear. 
I now want to deal specifically with something about which  Senator Chaney  spoke earlier today relating to clause 20 of the Bill. This clause deals with incentives for investment in areas of exploration and development, specifically in the north west of Western Australia. I am one who supports this move. I appreciate the great potential of the area which we as a nation need to develop. But I am also aware that we will need to invest many millions of dollars to get this project off the ground. There is a need for the Government to give some incentives in this area. Whilst I appreciate that this clause deals to some extent with the Government's statement which relates to the north west area and which was set out at about the time of the presentation of the Budget, I am disappointed that the Government has not also included in this legislation further tax incentives for on-shore exploration and exploitation. There is a great need for these incentives to make sure that we explore as effectively and efficiently as we can for all our resources. At present some of them are totally unknown; others are not. Oil companies, with their great expenditures and risk capital, need incentives to move into this risky area of exploration. 
I would like to see the legislation go even further than dealing with on-shore exploration. I would like to see the Government move into areas covered by old sections 77 (C) and 77 (D). I appreciate that under those sections great problems arose. In the past there were loopholes and tax avoidance was practised by many people. This is the reason the Government closed off these avenues of avoidance. I hope that the Minister will refer to the Government the suggestion that it should give further serious consideration to providing more incentives for investment by companies in exploration because there is a need for further Australian equity in this area. At present people are given no incentive to invest their money in exploration. If something could be done by way of tax incentives, we would give greater encouragement to Australians to invest more money in this risk area and so take part in the future development of Australia. 

 Mr Chairman, I appreciate the limitations of time. I could say much more on this matter but I hope I have said enough for the Minister to appreciate my concern and to appreciate that I support  Senator Chaney  's proposal. I hope the Government will give serious consideration to providing further tax incentives over a broader field for both on-shore and off-shore exploration. There is a particular need for more off-shore exploration and consequently there is a need to ensure that there are incentives for companies and for Australians to invest in the development of their country, particularly in this area of high risk. 
I support the Bills before the Senate tonight. They are very important measures. They give continuing support to the wool industry, support which over the last few years has done so much to assist the industry. As  Senator Douglas  Scott has said, this legislation deals with the aspect of a further levy upon the industry itself to support the floor price scheme for wool. I appreciate the problem of the restriction of time facing the Senate as we approach the end of the session so I will not go over the ground that  Senator Scott  has already covered, other than to say that I fully support his remarks. I wish to go a little further in regard to the floor price scheme for wool because this was something on which the industry, divided as it was for many years in the early post-war period, could never agree to, but eventually industry representatives got together via what is known today as the Australian Wool Industry Conference- the AWIC. 
Reference was made to the Conference itself. This is the body of wool growers, large and small, which discusses the industry from a factual point of view. Also it discusses the industry with the Minister for Primary Industry in the federal sphere. I mention this because it is a very important point. As I said, the industry is composed of many wool growers, large and small, but the members of the AWIC are elected by the wool growers themselves. I am proud of the fact that I was one of the foundation members of AWIC. Having said that, I support the proposals put forward by the Government in this legislation in regard to the levy to support the floor price scheme for wool which has brought so much stability to the industry over a number of years. It has the support of both government and industry. 
I was concerned the other night when I heard  Senator Walsh  speak very critically in this place about the AWIC and also about  Sir William  Vines in regard to the export of merino rams from Australia. Whilst you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  may feel that I am digressing, I feel there is a need for me to give support to both the AWIC and  Sir William  Vines because of the fact that the AWIC still plays a very prominent and important part in representing to the Federal Minister the voice of the industry. The same recognition in respect of the AWIC was given by  Senator Wriedt  as the Minister for Primary Industry when the Whitlam Government was in power. I was extremely concerned the other night when I heard  Senator Walsh  speak in the way that he did. We have come to accept that unfortunately every time  Senator Walsh  makes a speech in this place he becomes vindictive and extremely personal, whether it be against a senator or against some individual within the community. I take exception to the language he used as recorded on page 2258 of the Senate Hansard for 1 June. He said: 
. the absurd and fraudulent arguments which have been put forward, principally by the Prime Minister's friend, William J. Vines- 
Incidentally, it is  Sir William  Vines.  Senator Walsh  involved the AWIC in that he referred to the fact that  Sir William  Vines was involved with the International Wool Secretariat which also is closely related to the AWIC. 
Tonight we are dealing with legislation to support a floor price for a marketing scheme for wool. It took many years to introduce this scheme but once it was introduced not only the industry but also the nation benefited. The AWIC itself had a good deal to do with this scheme. The AWIC also had a good deal to do with the arrival at a final decision on whether or not Australia should export merino rams from this country. I hope that you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will allow me to pass the remarks I now wish to make because 1 regard the comments made the other night by  Senator Walsh  as derogatory to that body of the wool industry which is so responsible and which plays such a responsible part in discussions with governments, of whatever political colour. It has in discussions with the Minister supported proposals which are propounded by the Government at the present time and which are under discussion and debate in the Senate. 
I take great exception to the fact that a senator saw fit in this place to pass such derogatory remarks about a man whom I and many others regard as one of the finest Australians we have been fortunate enough to bring back to this country. I emphasise the words 'to bring back to this country'.  Sir William  Vines had made his mark internationally with an industry entirely divorced from the wool industry and in fact entirely divorced from Australia as far as origin was concerned. But he was approached and he saw fit as an Australian national to take up the challenge within the International Wool Secretariat and accepted the position as director of the IWS. I will say that not only the industry but also this country owes a great debt to  Sir William  Vines for the great contribution he has made on behalf of Australia. We will never really get used to  Senator Walsh.  We expect him to be so vindictive and so personally abusive about an individual, but I am astonished that he should say these things about a man who is regarded by so many people as being a great Australian. 
Having said those things, the blame was placed the other night fairly and squarely at the feet of the AWIC in regard to the decision to export some merino rams from Australia. The blame was placed squarely at the feet of  Sir 
William Vines in regard to the final decision that was reached. Might I say that this was a decision that was reached by the industry itself. Discussions were held throughout the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia by the wool industry as to whether or not we as a nation and as an industry should agree to the exporting of merino rams which in turn may affect, according to the arguments which were put by some people, the marketing of Australian wool and the quality of our wool. As a result of those meetings decisions were reached. Also from those meetings delegates to the regional conventions were elected. From those conventions delegates were elected to the State councils where discussions took place as to whether individual States and organisations within those States would agree to the exporting of some merino rams. 
Marketing was one of the great concerns of the industry, but nevertheless agreement was reached, and delegates from those State conventions were elected from the two major organisationsthe Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. Those delegates make up the structure of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Those delegates presented the decisions reached in their own States in regard to the exporting of some merino rams.  Senator Walsh  stood in this place and condemned an individual. I make it perfectly clear that the individual himself did not make any decision; the industry made the decision and the Parliament put it into practice by legislating accordingly. 
I take the matter one step further. Another great Australian will go down in history and be remembered with great respect for the contributions he made to Australia generally. I refer to the late  Sir Ian  Clunies-Ross who later became the leader of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. We all know of the contribution that that organisation has made nationally and internationally. I quote a statement that the late  Sir Ian  Clunies-Ross once made: 
The embargo -  on merino ram exports-  was imposed because of one ill-founded fear and would, I am confident, have been lifted before this but for another fear no less ill-founded. The first was that, by the export of Merino sheep, we should increase the volume of fine wool production outside Australia, so leading to increased and harmful competition with our own wool. The second fear is that, if the embargo were now lifted, prices of rams on the local market would rise appreciably. 
As for the first of these fears, there is no evidence that the free export of Merino rams prior to 1 929- that is, for a good 50 years - 
I emphasise the words 'for a good 50 years'-  after the establishment of the Merino stud sheep industryhad been productive in any way of the consequences which the embargo was supposed to prevent. Probably were it not for the fact that substantial shipments of Merino sheep had been made to Soviet Russia, the ban would never have been imposed. As to the second fear, when free export was allowed, the volume of sales and the average price paid for Merino sheep were never such as to have any impact on domestic ram prices, even though individual sales were from time to time of considerable value to particular studs. How could the sale of a few hundred Merino rams, out of yearly replacement of 100,000, have any marked influence on price levels? 
That statement was made by a man who remains in history as a great Australian, a sound adviser and a scientist. He devoted a lot of his time to the wool industry before he moved into the CSIRO. He expressed no concern whatsoever about problems regarding marketing. 
I think it is important to emphasise that condemnation has been rained upon an individual in this country,  Sir William  Vines, by an honourable senator who did not bother to go into history and find out the real facts of the wool industry. For some 50-odd years prior to 1929 some 22,511 sheep- not just rams; ewes and ramswere exported from Australia. We heard a lot about the genetic structures and the development of flocks the other night. I know that  Senator Walsh  professes to be an economist; I did not know he was so good when it came to genetics and so on. I would like to know who was the author of what he quoted the other night. Be that as it may, that is part of parliamentary debate. I do not accept that any honourable senator should be allowed to get away with making derogatory remarks in this place about a great Australian who, because of his involvement and senior position with a big international firm, gave up an opportunity to be probably fabulously wealthy today. He saw fit, as an Australian, to come back and take up the challenge- having been on the land himself as a boy- to help an industry which at the time was facing all the problems posed by the entry of synthetics into the apparel fibre world. I think there is a limit to how much of the garbage that was poured out the other night Australia and the Senate can accept. I have made sure that I have answered the criticism tonight. I have a great regard for this man who has done so much for the industry in Australia. 
Let me give a little more background to the Australian merino industry. It all started by chance. The special wool in Australia cannot be matched by any other country, with the exception of parts of South Africa and New Zealand. Because of our overall environment- I use the word 'environment' in its broad term- and because of the breeding that has taken place here with relationship to that environment, we have been able to breed a type of sheep and a type of wool in Australia that has remained unchallenged in the world. It is interesting to note that the Australian wool industry started when two sea captains were in South Africa en route to Australia. They went to a dispersal sale of a merino stud and bought some of the stud sheep. They brought them to Australia. Those that survived were sold to a man called Macarthur. He is the man who, along with others, bred these sheep. He is the founder, the father of the merino industry in Australia. The point I make is that we did not have merino sheep initially. They came from South Africa. The original flock was from Spain. The blood line is still there today. 
I mention these things tonight because an honourable senator saw fit the other night, when referring to the marketing of wool and expressing concern about it, to use devious means to condemn a man who has made such a contribution to the wool industry. We have exported rams from Australia. The future of the industry has not always been as bright as it should be, but that has been due to international economic situations. But the industry, with all its problems, still has faith in the Australian Wool Industry Conference and the decisions which it makes, which were condemned by  Senator Walsh  the other night. The industry has confidence in the proposals put forward by the Government and is prepared to accept a levy to continue to support the floor price scheme for another 12 months. It realises that the establishment of such a scheme has been a good solid economic basis for the industry. It has given great support in the past and no doubt will give the same support in the future, as will people like  Sir William  Vines and the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I support the legislation that is before us this evening. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that I placed two questions on notice on 1 June this year dealing with expenditures of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? As I consider that these are important matters for the Senate as a whole, I ask the Minister whether he will again approach the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to obtain answers to these questions which related to the previous appropriations considered by the Estimates committees. We would like the answers before the Estimates committees deal with further appropriations. 
May I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  following his reply to the second reading debate, whether concern has been expressed- I refer to the title of the Bill- with regard to all of those small agencies that may go out of business through the expanded operations of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I ask the Minister whether he can tell this chamber what the position would be if the Government found over a period of time that some of those agencies were going out of business because the CES was expanding its operations. I would be pleased if the Minister could inform the Committee. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. Having previously asked questions on the efficiency of and need for emission controls on motor vehicles, to which I have not yet received complete answers, I now ask the Minister whether any research has been done on the effectiveness or otherwise of emission control. If so, can the Minister state what has been the result of such research? Does emission control reduce the amount of lead emitted as well as the amount of carbon monoxide and other exhaust gases? If so, by what percentages are they reduced? Is the Minister aware that emission controls on motor vehicles can cost between $150 and $500 a vehicle, with fuel consumption increasing, causing at least a nine per cent drop in kilometres a litre? Is it not a fact that these costs, together with the increases in fuel prices announced in the Budget, will add an enormous cost to the Australian motorist and transport generally merely to assist pollution problems in big cities such as Sydney? I ask: Why should Australia and Australian motorists be penalised by such costly fuel wastage when we are all being asked to conserve as scarce an energy source as petrol? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Has the Government given any consideration to removing sales tax on the conversion equipment that is required for vehicles so that they can run on liquefied petroleum gas and also to the removal of the small excise on LPG used in motor vehicles? If not, will the Government give serious consideration to these suggestions as a means of conserving a scarce energy source which also will bring about a reduction in the pollution that is caused by traffic in cities? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
National Acoustics Laboratory and Ultrasonics Institute, Chatswood, New South Wales. 
I  present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully say that we are concerned about the discrimination which exists against the children of those parents who are in receipt of the Supporting Parents Benefit in comparison with children of Single Parents who receive the Widows Pension. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Parliament take immediate steps to ensure that this year's budget allow for Lone Parents to be given the right to receive a pension with the same benefits as are given with the Widows Pension, and we also request that Parliament take immediate action to instigate one ( I ) category of Lone Parent Pension to eliminate the discrimination currently experienced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, follows a question I asked yesterday concerning emission controls. Is the Minister aware that taking new motor vehicles registered in the last two years as a base- incidentally, this would be a conservative figure- and projecting this average over the next five years, it is estimated that an extra 265 million gallons of petrol will be consumed or wasted due to emission controls compulsorily fitted on motor vehicles under the Australian Design Rule 2 7 A? Basing petrol prices on those stated in this 
Budget, is the Minister also aware that it is estimated that over this five-year period, which again is conservative, this could cost an extra $300m to the Australian motorist or Australia for the extra fuel used? As emission control is so costly in monetary terms as well as in fuel wastage at a time when we are trying to conserve energy in this area, will the Government have discussions with the States to see whether this costly and what I consider wasteful scheme can be abandoned by the States or at least limited in some way? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In which countries did the Minister have discussions on uranium enrichment during his recent overseas visit? Did these discussions include discussions on different methods for the enrichment of uranium? Was the possible establishment of an enrichment plant in Australia also discussed? Have discussions in Australia progressed very far on the eventual establishment of an enrichment plant in this country? Is it a fact that URENCO, a West German, British and Dutch consortium, has had discussions in South Australia on the establishment of an enrichment plant in that State? Are other States pressing for the establishment of an enrichment plant in their own States? 
-I support the Bill before the Senate. I was quite interested in the remarks made by  Senator Wriedt  this afternoon in dealing with this legislation. He seemed to range very wide and, quite frankly, very far. No doubt he thought he had a mandate to do so because this legislation is part of a package of legislation dealing with export development encouragements and incentives which the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  put to the Parliament some months ago in a very broad statement. I feel that we as a parliament and a country- not as a partyshould have been very pleased about the package because we now see the various pieces of legislation in it coming forward, all of which will give great encouragement and assistance to the development of export industries in Australia. Whilst one could expand on this area at quite some length, I hope that in debating further pieces of legislation later the opportunity will avail itself to make some of these very important points. 
We are dealing today with the proposed Australian Overseas Projects Corporation and I would say, with great respect, that we are not dealing with a trading corporation. I think that it is worth quoting what the Minister for Trade and Resources said some time ago. He said: 
There have been some contracts awarded overseas to countries with talents less than we have here. I believe we have the talents here to take on almost any construction job and I hope that Australian consultants, architects, engineers and contracting firms might be in a more competitive position to get into some of the international business. 
Basically that is what this legislation is about because the basic function of this Corporation is to assist Australian private organisations to compete for overseas development projects. One might ask why there is a need for such assistance and whether there is such a need. I think that we have only to reflect on what could have been great opportunities for Australia. There have been many, but one in particular that comes to mind is Teheran airport which involved a contract of some $600m. There was no doubt that we had the expertise and the ability to have submitted a tender and, if awarded the contract, to have done a great job. Unfortunately by the time people in Australia knew of such a big contract and had an opportunity to get together it was too late for anybody to submit a tender. 
The Corporation will be a blend of private enterprise and Public Service, if I can put it that way. It has been stated that there will be a maximum of eight board members, five of whom will be from private enterprise. I commend this proposal. Whilst I will not criticise the Public Service in any way, I must say that I am pleased to see that wisdom has prevailed and that there will be five people from private enterprise. The main reason for my saying this is that I hope and expect that in these five people there will be quite a diversity of business interests and experience and that they will form a collective group of people with expertise from within industry and from the Public Service with its areas of skill and administration and knowledge of what goes on with regard to overseas development. 
Of course, criticism or concern could be levelled at the amount of finance which is basically available. I was surprised and delighted that  Senator Wriedt  did not criticise this area today. It is stated that $2m will be provided for the Corporation with an initial instalment of Sim which of course will enable it to start work in the 1978-79 financial year. When one looks at some outside contracts- I refer again to the Teheran airport contract which was worth some $600m- and when one sees that the Bill provides that the maximum contingent liability shall not exceed $50m, one thinks that this is a rather minimal amount for some of these big contracts. Then we notice that clause 43 of the Bill spells out quite clearly: 
The Corporation shall carry on its business so that its contingent liability in respect of transactions engaged in by it does not, at any time, exceed $50m or, if a higher amount is prescribed, that higher amount. 
I stand to be corrected by the Minister if I have not correctly interpreted this clause, but I understand that whilst there is a ceiling on the amount of liability which the Corporation can prescribe basically at this stage, that amount being $50m, greater amounts can be given by way of assistance by the Corporation after the Parliament has agreed to such increases. I think that this is very important because corporations could get carried away with enthusiasm, and the Parliament should have the responsibility when we are dealing with bigger and bigger amounts of money. 
When I first read that clause I questioned it, but on reading it properly I commend it because it will leave control with regard to overall funding and financing of projects to the Parliament. The reason why there is no real ceiling on it is that the Parliament can decide what the ceiling will be, and no doubt this will allow a great deal of flexibility. I mentioned earlier the Teheran airport project and how Australia would have had the potential and ability to have undertaken the work but unfortunately missed out on it because we did not have a corporation, such as an Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I omitted to refer to the new position of  Chairman  of Committees which you now hold and the high honour which has been bestowed upon you by the Senate. This is the first opportunity I have had to speak in a debate while you have been in the chair.  I  congratulate you on your elevation and  I  look forward to working under you. Having known you for many years, I am fully conscious of your ability, tolerance and understanding. Above all, I am conscious of the respect in which you are held by honourable senators on both sides of this chamber. I wish you well in your new position and trust that you will really enjoy what I consider to be a very high honour. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I referred to the opportunities that had been lost by Australia because we did not have what one may call contact points throughout the world. I mentioned also that the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  had put down a full and commendable statement in the last sessional period of the Parliament in which he stated that encouragement would be given for the development, expansion and assistance by government of export industries. He indicated that as part of the package the operations of the Australian Trade Commissioner Service would be expanded throughout the world. This is directly related to the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill. The 
Trade Commissioner Service will be gathering information and intelligence, as it were, for the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. This is extremely important because it will show Australian enterprise where opportunities exist throughout the world. 
When talking about opportunities, one thinks of what Australia has done already in bilateral and multilateral aid. Australia has been involved in many overseas projects. As an Australian, I have been proud when visiting some recipient countries to hear the people commend the efforts that we, as a nation, have made to develop roads, agriculture and dams. One can mention many countries which have received Australian expertise and Australian assistance. Of course, we are going much further now with the introduction of this new Corporation. The Trade Commissioner Service will be looking for opportunities for Australian expertise and private enterprise to assist the development of various countries. Great development opportunities exist for Australia in the Middle East. We can already state what we as a nation have done in South East Asia. Contracts are let internationally for projects in these countries. Australian companies may tender for some of these contracts. One cannot overlook our near neighbours in the Pacific countries. This Corporation will not only give an opportunity for Australian public and private enterprise to involve itself in these areas. From an internationally public relations point of view it will also help Australia. In turn, Australia will have the opportunity to help more countries throughout the world. 
This is extremely important because a twoway flow results from involvement in these projects. Australia is seen to be willing to involve itself in assisting the development of countries throughout the world. At the same time, Australian industry can be involved and developed as an export industry. I come back to the functions of the Trade Commissioner Service. When an overseas project is announced, the Trade Commissioner Service can inform the Corporation, which in turn can advise the various companies throughout Australia. They will have the opportunity to decide whether they have the capacity and whether they are keen to compete and tender against overseas companies or countries. I mentioned earlier one contract worth some $600m. This could be a lot for one company. One of the other functions of the Corporation will be to endeavour to bring interested groups together in a consortium which has greater financial backing and a greater collection of expertise. This will lead to greater opportunities for groups of companies to get together to tender for overseas contracts. Above all, there is the Government expertise which I mentioned earlier. The Corporation itself will assist an individual company or a consortium of companies. It will offer a collection of expertise and will endeavour to get Australian companies to cooperate so they can tender successfully for contracts in many major projects throughout the world. 
I know there will be criticism by some people in the community and by the Opposition of some aspects of this legislation. I commend the Government for what it has proposed. I think this is a bold new initiative. Perhaps Australia should have considered the establishment of such a Corporation many years ago. At least, we have the legislation before us today. I commend the Government for establishing the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. I trust that the Senate will give its support to the legislation because through it we can help not only other countries but also Australia. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health heard reports that a  Dr W.  Forrest of the Australian 
Wine Research Institute, whose earlier comments had some bearing upon the belief that histamines in Australian red wines caused headaches, has now had second thoughts on the matter? Is the Minister aware that it is reported that  Dr Forrest  now states that after three years of research his studies show no untoward levels of histamines in Australian red wines and also that such things as dried fish, yoghurt, cheese, meat products, bananas and chocolates have levels of up to 1 ,000 times that of red wine. As this latest research has thrown new light on Australian red wine will the Minister for Health have discussions with  Dr Forrest  on this report and, if it is found to be correct, will he then make a formal statement to clarify the real position regarding Australian red wines? 
I listened this afternoon to the debate on this legislation and I must say that I was fascinated with the attitude and arguments adopted by Opposition members. The old old bogy of profit still comes through as a dirty word. I was fascinated to hear  Senator Walsh  going on and on in condemnation of companies that had done so much for the development of resources in this country. I do commend  Senator Tate  for his well prepared and presented speech. Indeed, I conveyed that to him personally when we rose for dinner, but even his speech came through as expressing basically the same philosophy, a philsophy which, when the Australian Labor Party was in power, helped to destroy so much that had been developed in this country in the post-war years. 
As I recall it  Senator Tate  said: 'Now, of course, the producers have the Government's ear'. In the two long years when Labor was in office it had the whole lot- the oil and mineral producers- and its policy literally drove the explorers out of Australia. One has only to look at what has happened with development compared with what would have happened. As a South Australian, I would refer to the Redcliff proposal- a petro-chemical industry- which tragically did not eventuate. Through no fault of the State Government- which I make clear, is a Labor Government- but through every fault of the Government of that time, the Whitlam Government, and its interference, Redcliff has not been established; it is still a cliff-hanger so far as South Australia is concerned. It is a project that would have been able to utilise so much of the liquid resources of this country from the Cooper Basin- virtually in the centre of Australia- and would have given a lot of incentive to companies to go out and explore further. One cannot expect companies to go out and explore by investing millions and millions of dollars and then sit back with virtually a useless resource because there is no ready market for it. That is the position with regard to exploration in the Cooper Basin. 
The other great problem that has to be faced- it affects both South Australia and New South Wales- is the fact that as the dry gas runs out, the producing companies will have two alternatives. One is to flare off the liquids, which can make up 30 per cent to 60 per cent of the resource in particular wet gas wells. The other is to use it in a project such as Redcliff, a petrochemical industry, or perhaps try to store it somewhere else at considerable expense. As I said earlier, the attitude of the Opposition fascinates and astounds me: It still speaks in such critical terms of the oil companies and accuses the present Government of having its ears twigged by those companies because this Government is doing something on a national basis, for national security in the future. This is a long-term planning project, and I will have more to say about that later. 
Let us look at the history of oil exploration in Australia over the years. We recall that the Labor Party came to power in December of 1972. Exploration, following the discovery of gas in the Bass Strait region in particular, escalated suddently throughout the country. In 1973 some 69 wells, on-shore and off-shore, were drilled. In 1 974, as a result of the first year of the Labor Government's term of office, with the attitudes that I have mentioned, the number of wells drilled dropped from 69 to 54. In 1975 the number was right down to 23-23 from 69. In 1976 the downturn continued, the figure dropped to 21 wells drilled. I know that the present Government had by then returned to power, but one does not suddenly move out and start drilling wells overnight. One of the things that happens is that companies have to find oil drilling rigs. Virtually all of those rigs had left Australia. They had gone to other countries because here there was no incentive left for the oil companies. There was no incentive left for the companies which owned the drilling rigs, so by 1 976 they had left our shores. 
As a result, Australia experienced a great delay in the resumption of exploration. Although there should have been an increase in the number of wells beyond 69, unfortunately in 1976 the number slid right down to 21. The number stayed at 2 1 in 1 977, but it is interesting to note that the projection for 1978- dependent, I must say in qualification, upon certain economic circumstances, upon seismographic surveys and upon many other factors such as labour, including industrial troubles- stands at a figure of between 40 and 68 wells. I want to repeat those figures- between 40 and 68. Only 30 wells may be drilled, but what I am attempting to get through to this chamber is the fact that oil companies have returned to this country and are prepared to invest multi-millions of dollars to go out looking for oil. So let us not have any more of this ballyhoo- I could use other language- on the part of the Labor Party, whereby its members condemn the so-called multinationals as though they were sinners, ripping off everything in this country. We need outside expertise and finance to come into this country if we are to exploit, to find, the resources both on-shore and off-shore. 
Much has been said today about a resources tax and what the Government should do with it. Let us go back again to what happened when Labor was in power. It did not bring in a resources tax. It went further: It wanted to nationalise every section of the industry if it could. It frightened hell- if I might use that word- out of the exploration companies and out of overseas investors, who consequently left our shores. What we have been finding in the last few weeks, since the presentation of the Budget, including this excise Bill, is that overseas companies are turning to Australia, to invest their money here, to invest risk capital which will help in the further development of this country. Our coming out with a resources tax- with a resources tax it is not where one starts but where one finishes- is exactly what had overseas companies scared. They had one bitter lesson in Australia and they were not prepared to take the risk of being taught a second bitter lesson in this country. If we want to develop Australia we must be prepared to accept that, in return for high risk, there must be high profit. 
Here we go again: That is the sort of philosophy that destroyed so much of the initiative and incentive in this country to get on with the job of exploration to develop our resources. So let us have no more of this rubbish. Let us look at the history of exploration. What are the costs of exploration today? It is so expensive that it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to drill a well on-shore, irrespective of whether or not one finds oil. Discussions are being held by the companies, by the consortium, in the northwest of Western Australia, a highly potential area which is full of promise but which is extremely expensive to explore. It has been estimated that each well on the North West Shelf could cost between $6m and $10m. Such investment is a hit or miss proposition. If exploration companies are lucky enough to hit in sufficient quantities for a commercial well, the expenditure really starts to grow. They have to start looking at the development of platforms which can cost up to $200m each. They have to look at the expense of pipelines, which can cost $200m or more. So the initial risk capital is colossal and if companies are lucky in their search the investment capital is colossal. Such companies deserve the right, the opportunity and the expectation to get some profitability from their risk enterprise. 
I have mentioned the risks. I shall now relate a little history. It is estimated that for every 200 exploration wells drilled on-shore in Australia so far one commercial well has been discovered. In off-shore exploration the chance of success is increased. Bass Strait, with the exception of the North Sea, has the history of being the best area in the world for luck, if I might put it that way. Off-shore exploration so far has produced one successful well for every 30 wells drilled at a cost of some $6m a well. That is a lot of money. I emphasise again that exploration involves risk capital. So much risk is involved the whole way through the venture that there is a need for companies to be given some incentive to look for oil, which is of benefit to this country as well as to themselves. Hence we start to talk about production levies. We heard much about them from  Senator Walsh. 
What is the overall position in Australia today? It is estimated that by 1985, unless we find more crude oil in Australia or offshore from Australia, we will have something like 30 per cent self-sufficiency. The cost will then increase because we will have to start importing more oil at a high cost. For a long time we have had cheap oil in this country. I said in the Senate some 18 months ago that the days of cheap crude oil and petrol prices were over whichever way one looks at it. Unless we find more oil we will have to import more oil. I repeat that by 1985 we will be down to 30 per cent self-sufficiency or less. Hence the import cost will go up. We know that at present it costs something like $2.30 a barrel for indigenous crude oil. I stand corrected on that, but that is the position as I understand it. The cost of overseas oil is $12.60 a barrel. So there is this great gap. By giving a higher price to the exploring, producing companies, we could increase our known reserves, as happened in Bass Strait. Because Bass Strait oil was brought up to import parity reserves increased by some $400m- a 20 per cent increase in Australia's reserves- and more wells have become commercial propositions. 
Again I express my amazement at the continued opposition of the Australian Labor Party to higher oil prices. Of course this Bill will introduce extra costs, but they amount only to some 3c a litre. The price of crude oil and petrol will go up in any case because in last year's Budget, the Government introduced its import parity proposals- proposals that were based specifically upon the need to encourage further exploration in this country in the hope that we would find more resources in the way of liquid hydrocarbons and dry hydrocarbons. These proposals were also designed to encourage the conservation of fuel in this country. Australia has had the cheapest crude oil of any country. We have been a lucky country. In Europe petrol prices have gone up to 30c a litre or more whereas in this country, with the increase in the excise, the price will go up to 2 lc a litre. To me that in itself is very important. We are hearing so much today in this debate of how much more petrol will cost in Australia. It will cost more, but we have been lucky that it has not cost a lot more much earlier. I repeat that we have had the cheapest petrol in the world. 
As the Government said in last year's Budget, there was a need to do something about oil prices. The Government was doing something about it. It introduced a sliding scale so that by 1981 producers will receive each year import parity prices for six million barrels or for 50 per cent of the production of a field, whichever is the greater. In real terms that means something like 60 per cent of the production would be sold at import parity prices. A production levy of $2 a barrel, repayable to the Government, was increased to $3. Let me make it clear that the Government's crude oil policy is not a rake-off for the companies. There has been criticism by  Senator Walsh  about all the increased prices. Let us have a look at some of the prices in other parts of the world. The cost per litre of motor spirit in the United States of America is 15c; in New Zealand, 25c; in the United Kingdom, 26.2c; in Sweden, 30.9c; in Spain, 32.9c; in West Germany, 34.2c; in Austria, 35.8c; in The Netherlands, 38.9c; in France, 40.1c; and in 
Italy, 48.8c. The increased price in Australia is 21.6c. Perhaps in some ways that is affecting some people. Unfortunately there has been an increase in the price of fuel. 
With this legislation the Government has virtually brought forward what it proposed to do with these import parity proposals. It is giving companies more incentive to find more resources for this country. Present resources are scarce and are being depleted. It is also trying to improve its revenue to overcome a deficit that was created by the Labor Party during the times of high inflation when it was in power. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made this perfectly clear. The excise is a revenue winner for the Government. There is a need to look at all these aspects. On top of this the Government has made sure that it will encourage conservation in this country. I heard  Senator Walsh  this afternoon say 'Rubbish. Prices will have no effect whatsoever on conservation'. I am fascinated by the wisdom of  Senator Walsh;  but, at the same time, as an Australian I am glad that he is not a member of the Industries Assistance Commission. Let me refer to the IAC report on crude oil pricing of 30 September 1976. The summary states: 
The terms of reference for this inquiry ask the Commission to make recommendations on the price to September 1 980 of indigenous crude oil discovered before 14 September 1975. 
It goes on: 
The prices which local producers of crude oil currently receive are set by the Commonwealth Government. These prices are considerably below those which could be obtained in the absence of price control. Crude oil from the Gippsland fields, for example, which accounts for over 90 per cent of local production, is priced at $2.33 per barrel; its value on a free market is estimated to be at least $ 1 1 per barrel. 
I am quoting from the report of 1976. It then states: 
The pricing situation limits the returns to local producers and subsidises users of petroleum products . . . 
This pricing situation has a number of undesirable consequences for the way resources are used. 
-I think I should repeat statement: 
This pricing situation has a number of undesirable consequences for the way resources are used. 
The report states: 
First, it encourages increased consumption of a scarce resource. 
I repeat, for  Senator Walsh's  benefit: 
First, it encourages increased consumption of a scarce resource. 
The report continues: 
Second, investment in projects to expand the supply of indigenous crude oil is discouraged. 
The report shows that in this country there has been no discouragement of use to conserve a resource which is scarce not only in Australia but also worldwide, and also that there has been no encouragement whatsoever for companies to get out to find more indigenous crude for Australia, which, in the long term, will give us greater security in regard to a depleting resource. 
One can go on. I take on board what was said today by  Senator Collard  on emission control. I think it is a scandalous waste of a scarce resource. Honourable senators opposite talk about increased cost to the motorist. They should get the two Labor governments in New South Wales and South Australia to do something rational about emission control. It has been estimated that emission control will cost the Australian motorist some $300m in the next five years. The money is totally wasted, apart from easing the problem of pollution and smog in cities such as Sydney. Honourable senators opposite should persuade  Mr Wran  and  Mr Dunstan  to get rid of emission control and thereby save the Australian motorist some $300m. What are honourable senators opposite doing about that? Nothing. No doubt, as time goes on, we will hear more about emission control in further debates. 
I said a long time ago that crude oil prices would increase; that the days of cheap crude oil were over, whatever way we looked at it. The Government has brought forward something that was to be carried out over a longer period. We must commend the Government. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has commended Australia on the economic policies it has adopted. Australia has one of the best inflationary trends in the world. Let us not start haggling about the economic and fiscal policies of this country. Let us admit that the OECD, which has some ability through its involvement in a cross-section of the world, has commended the policies and the inflationary trends of this country. This is entirely different from what happened when honourable senators opposite were sitting on this side of the chamber. 
The Government, through this legislation, will be able to reduce the deficit. The deficit is still causing grave problems. At the same time the legislation will encourage conservation of a scarce resource. We hope that overall the encouragement of conservation and the encouragement of companies to get out and risk their capital will be for the benefit of Australia. Although we realise that the extra revenue earned will affect some in the community, in totality it will be for the benefit of Australia in the longer term. We will overcome the problems that were created in so many ways when the Labor Party was in government in this country for three long years. 
Did the Attorney-General, on his recent visit to the United States of America, discuss with the Government the possibility of an agreement in relation to the enforcement in Australia of American antitrust laws particularly as they affect uranium marketing? If so, in view of the severe monetary penalites involved in the antitrust laws in America and the possible consequences for some Australian companies, will he inform the Senate on the current state of the negotiations? 
-Has not the quota system for indigenous crude applied since it was first introduced by  Mr Gorton  when he was Prime Minister? Virtually what has happened is that there has been a reversal of the position held by imported crude. At one stage Australian crude was dearer than imported crude but as time has gone on the position has reversed and Australian crude has become cheaper. Once there was a problem in trying to use Australian crude. Today there are benefits in doing so because the users are getting a cheaper crude. As I understand it, this system has continued since it was introduced by John Gorton when he was Prime Minister. I ask also whether this system has created any problems for small independent companies. My understanding is that it has not. In fact, some small companies have been able to do some exporting of refined spirit. 
We are digressing somewhat in this area, but, for the sake of clarification for the Committee, I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack):  Is it correct that from the Gorton days, when this system of quotas was brought in, one company, which perhaps I should name- it is the XL company- was importing petrol from overseas and had to take a quota of Australian crude oil? If that is correct, there has been no change in policy. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  You may recall that some months ago I asked you about the possibility of members of the Federal Parliament having an identification badge. Might I suggest that perhaps this badge could consist of an Australian coat of arms with a red background for senators and perhaps a green background for members of the House of Representatives? I throw this in for consideration. Might I also ask whether you would give consideration also to such badges remaining with members of parliament so that, when they retire, they will still have some form of identification as having been previously a member of the Parliament? I appreciate that there are some very well known badges in Australia that incorporate bars et cetera identifying the holders as life members of the various organisations involved. My reason for mentioning this is that you may or may not be aware- and I ask whether you are aware- of the problems encountered by some ex-members of parliament. I refer in particular to  Sir Magus  Cormack, a former  President  of this chamber, who, when he returned to visit Parliament House, was given an identity disc which imposed certain restrictions upon him. Hence, I feel that badges for members of Parliament as well as for ex-members of Parliament would be well worthwhile. I ask: Has consideration been given to this matter? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen an article concerning the work of scientists at the University of New South Wales on the breeding of a microbe which can convert mining waste into metals worth millions of dollars? Is the Minister aware that this article points out that, by using microbes to leach waste, metals can be recovered and the environment protected at hardly any cost, and that the technique can be used on most metals including, very importantly, uranium, copper, zinc and nickel? Can the Minister indicate how far the breeding of such a microbe has progressed and when, if at all, it will be brought into commercial use? Can he also tell us how efficient such a leaching process would be, particularly in terms of environmental protection? 
We are debating this afternoon a matter of public importance brought forward by the Australian Labor Party. The matter which it considers to be of public importance states in part: 
The Minister for Primary Industry's failure to justify Government policy permitting the export of merino rams . . . 
It goes on to list specifically three points which I will not take time to read. There is no doubt that at present the Labor Party is opposed, as it has always been, to the exporting of merino rams because of pressures from sections of the community, primarily the union movement. We are still seeing today and hearing in this chamber what is the trade union attitude regarding the export of merino rams. We have also heard criticism to the effect that the Government is not prepared to have another referendum and that it was not prepared to stand by the results of a previous referendum. Whilst on this subject I challenge  Senator McLaren  to tell this chamber which major rural organisation went to the trade unions and said that it was opposed to the export of merino rams. Unless he is prepared to state the name of that organisation I will treat it as one to which only  Senator McLaren  and one or two of his friends belong. 
We have heard criticism of the Government to the effect that it has not been prepared to stand by the results of a referendum or to hold another referendum. I would like to cast the minds of people in this chamber and outside back to 1 974 when the then Labor Government introduced a reserve price scheme. I have always supported that scheme. Many growers throughout Australia have supported it. It is working extremely well today. But the scheme was not supported at two referendums. In August 1951 and again in December 1965 the proposal for a reserve price plan was rejected by the wool growers of Australia. Yet the Labor Party saw fit in 1974 to introduce a reserve price scheme. Honourable senators opposite commend themselves for it and in the same breath condemn the present Government for what it has done. I refer to what  Senator Walsh  said on page 2248 of  Hansard  of 1 June 1978. He said: 

 Let me express a personal view on this matter. I do not necessarily accept that the only determinant of this question - 
That is, the export of merino rams- should be the result of a referendum of wool growers. The responsibilities of governments extend beyond any wool growers or any other sections of the community. Governments are responsible to the whole community. 
I like the language 'any other sections of the community'. Does this mean that  Senator Walsh  also believes that governments should not be pushed around by trade unions and that a government is elected by the people to act for the people and not to stand aside and let others try to take over government, as some of the unions are trying to do at present regarding the export of merino rams from this country? I refer briefly to the Press statement of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on 5 July this year. It stated: 
The Minister said that strong representations had been received from the Australian Wool Industry Conference, its constituent member organisations, the Australian Wool Growers and Graziers ' Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation, in addition to the unanimous views of the State member associations of the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders. 
I wonder whether  Senator Walsh  and  Senator McLaren  have bothered to have discussions with those organisations within the Australian Wool Industry Conference or with the Conference itself. I doubt it considering what  Senator Walsh  said on 1 June this year. Dealing with certain sleazy tactics with regard to the export of merino rams, he said:  . . the dishonest and irrational arguments used by supporters of the relaxation of the embargo. I refer particularly to the argument of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, adopted by the previous conservative government in 1969, . . . 
In that comment  Senator Walsh  is denigrating the Australian Wool Industry Conference so, presumably, he would not be having discussions with either the AWIC, Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council or the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. The major Australian grower organisations throughout their history have shown that they are responsible and not only this Government but also the previous Whitlam Government which brought in the reserve price scheme, accepted them as responsible organisations. While  Senator Walsh  may care to condemn able and conscientious men and organisations, at least governments have not shared his view and have accepted them as responsible. I would like to quote something else that  Senator Walsh  has said in denigration of individuals, and I refer to his comments about  Sir William  Vines. He said: 

 Sir William Vines . . . was named by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as the director of the  Sir Robert  Menzies trust. I believe that it is most appropriate that a man such as the Prime Minister should appoint a proven fraud and charlatan such as  Sir William  Vines . . . 
When  Senator Walsh  condemns a man of the character, honesty, and drive of  Sir William  who has made such a contribution to the wool industry in this country, who gave up other positions where from a remunerative point of view he could have done far better and saw fit to return to Australia to take up the challenge and help the wool industry, is it any wonder that  Senator Walsh  turns deaf ears to responsible bodies such as the Australian Wool Industry Conference? 
Let us look at the history of the Australian merino sheep. Until 1929 merino sheep were exported from Australia. In that period 22,51 1 merino sheep, not just rams, were exported. A partner in one of the famous Austraiian studs then decided to go to South Africa and took with him his share of the Australian merino sheep on that property. It was the Collinsville stud, still one of the well-known studs in Australia. We have heard today a lot of piffle from the Opposition- we have heard it on previous occasions and no doubt will hear it again- about the dangers of exporting merino sheep. The fact is that prior to 1929, more than 22,000 merino sheep were exported and in 1929 a well-known stud had half of its top sheep taken to South Africa where the stud continued to breed them. So, already merino sheep have been exported. 
Let us look now at the origins of the wool industry in Australia. It was only by chance that the merino sheep came to Australia. Two sea captains called in to South Africa and attended a disposal sale at which they bought some merino sheep. These sheep were subsequently brought to Australia and sold to Macarthur- the father of the Austraiian merino- and that was the basis of our present flock. Many other strains have been introduced by other stud breeders. It is interesting to note that the merinos themselves were imported not only from South Africa but also from their countries of origin, Spain and Saxony. From 1860 onwards, Vermonts were imported from the United States of America. Merino and merino-type sheep- that is, Spanish, Germain Precos, Saxony, Rambouillet, Vermont, Stavropol and South African sheep- also were imported into Australia and these types are still freely available throughout Europe today. Yet we have heard a lot of tommyrot today from the Labor Party expressing its concern and its condemnation of the Government because the Government is prepared to export merino rams. Honourable senators on the other side have expressed concern at the great number of merino rams that would be exported. 
It has been said. It is interesting to note that during the years when the ban was lifted- 1970, 1971 and 1972-in 1970 there were 222 rams bought at an auction and exported, while in 1971 and 1972 50 each year were bought and exported.  Senator Primmer  mentioned that one of the problems associated with exporting merino rams is that the poor countries of the world cannot afford to buy them. 
It was  Senator McLaren.  He said India could not afford to buy merino rams. However, in 1970 India bought three merino rams at an average price of $733. In 1972 India bought 18, out of a total of 50 rams exported from Australia, at an average price of $533. I hope that the Opposition takes note of these statistics which cannot be argued. We have heard various arguments today from the Opposition why the ban should not be lifted and I would like to refer to a statement made by the late  Sir Ian  Clunies-Ross who not only was  chairman  of the International Wool Secretariat but also later became the head of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, a well-known research body in Australia, in which he said: 
The embargo was imposed because of one ill founded fear and would, I am confident, have been lifted before this but for another fear no less ill founded. The first was that, by the export of Merino sheep, we should increase the volume of fine wool production outside Australia, so leading to increased and harmful competition with our own wool. The second fear is that, if the embargo were now lifted, prices of rams on the local market would rise appreciably. 
He went on to refute completely all the arguments. He was a man who was closely associated with the industry and with research into the industry and who fully understood the industry. He went on to say: 
As for the first of these fears, there is no evidence that the free export of Merino rams prior to 1929- that is, for a good SO years after the establishment of the Merino stud sheep industry- had been productive in any way of the consequences which the embargo was supposed to prevent. 
The argument for the lifting of the ban has shown and will continue to show that there is a great need for the Australian wool industry to assist the wool industry and the wool apparel market overseas. We can understand the argument for imposing the ban in 1929 when wool stood alone without any competitor. Today we have alternative fibres; synthetics are with us. They are our major competitor in the apparel fibres of the world. There is a need for blends and among the many reasons why other countries should have the opportunity to upgrade their flocks and their wool is that wool can again become a great competitor with synthetics. These countries will need to import rams from Australia. 
When a sheep is taken out of its environment it will produce a different type of wool and if the Opposition is unaware of this I suggest that it does some homework. There is need to export merino rams under the conditions laid down by this Government. I am pleased to note that the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries in South Australia,  Mr Chatterton,  also agrees with this view. An article which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser on  8 July 1978 reads: 
Partial lifting of the merino ram export embargo would be of great help to many developing countries, the Minister of Agriculture,  Mr Chatterton,  said yesterday. 

 Mr Chatterton rejected claims that such aid would destroy the pre-eminence of the Australian wool industry. 
I heartily agree with that statement of the Minister. I support the Government and the wool industry organisations in their stand for the export of merino rams from this country to help the wool industry generally. 
Tonight we heard another excellent maiden speech, this time by  Senator Puplick.  During the course of the Budget debate we have heard quite a few honourable senators making their maiden speeches. Many of them have been oustanding speeches and it augurs well for this place as a debating chamber. Many honourable senators on both sides who showed so much ability when making their maiden speeches no doubt will make great contributions to both this chamber and the Parliament. I extend to all those honourable senators my warmest congratulations and wish them the very best while they are parliamentarians in this august Senate chamber. 
Much has been said about the Budget and we have just listened to another speech about it. It is the Opposition's right to criticise but, apart from making one or two comments, I do not intend to deal in any detail with the Budget. When the Government came to power it made it clear to the people that it would set about doing two major things: Reduce the rate of inflation and overcome the great deficit- both things we inherited from the Whitlam Government. Today the inflation rate has come down but, more than this, there are encouraging signs. We were paid a compliment by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which stated that the average inflation rate for the OECD countries is 8.8 per cent but that the inflation rate in Australia now is down to 7.9 per cent. As the OECD said, Australia is showing the way to many countries. This is most encouraging. There has been an upturn in overseas investment in Australia and an upturn in investment in industry and business generally in this country. 
We have one tragedy and that is unemployment. I sympathise with those people who are unfortunate enough to be amongst those who are unemployed. I express my concern and hope that the third area of disease- inflation was the first, the deficit was the second and unemployment is the third- will soon show a turn for the better. One would anticipate that the fiscal policies adopted by this Government will eventually lead to this end. 
The other comment I, as a senator from South Australia, wish to pass on the Budget, relates to my concern at the Government's action in increasing the excise on brandy by some 83 per cent. I was very concerned to learn of this increase because I appreciate very much that some 35,000 people in the Riverlands area of my State of South Australia will be affected in many ways. There is no doubt that brandy sales will be reduced. The wine industry and the grape industry should have been encouraged to achieve increased consumption rather than decreased consumption. I say that because of the plight of the wine industry in Australia generally and in South Australia in particular at the present time. One could go on and talk about the many problems facing this industry. Some of the problems of the wine industry have been self-inflicted but other impositions do not help overcome them. I hope that the Government will give some consideration to the position of the brandy producers in this country. 
Having made those comments I wish to refer to another Budget that was presented to a parliament last week- the Budget brought down by the South Austraiian Government. That Budget was brought down by a government in a State which is facing economic recession at the present time. 
It is recession which, quite frankly, to a great extent is self-inflicted as a result of the policies of the South Australian Government and the spending of that Government over a number of years. One could summarise the position by saying that in the last few years it has whittled away its heritage. 
Until the 1930s South Australia was primarily a rurally oriented State. Its economy depended mainly on agriculture. We in South Australia lagged very much behind the eastern States in regard to industrial development and industrial technology. Part of South Australia's great problem was based upon the inadequacy of the supply of both electricity and water. South Australia is a very dry State. In the 1940s things changed dramatically when a man called Tom Playford became the Premier of South Australia.  Sir Thomas  Playford, as he is now known, has since retired from politics. He could be described as a man of vision, great integrity and total dedication. He had direction and purpose in everything that he did. Without doubt he will go down in history as one of the political greats of this country. 
It was under Playford 's leadership that dramatic changes in production and the economic structure in South Australia took place. It was during the Playford era- an era which spanned some 26 years, from 1938 to 1965- that we saw great industrial development take place in South Australia. In this period there was an increase in almost 200 per cent in the number of factories- in fact, an increase from 2,025 to 5,887- together with an increase of 175 per cent in secondary industry employment. I emphasise that South Australia, having changed from an agriculturally oriented State to a secondary industry State, achieved a 1 75 per cent increase in industrial employment. Employment increased from approximately 42,000 to some 116,000 people. Playford primarily was responsible for all of this. 
We saw also the introduction of Leigh Creek coal to South Australia. This in itself was a very courageous move because during this period South Australia was dependent upon supplies of coal from the eastern States, particularly from New South Wales. In the early post-war years, when there was industrial strife in the coal fields of New South Wales, South Australia ran into great problems because of the shortage of coal supplies, as did other States in Australia. So,  Sir Thomas  Playford did two things. Firstly, he set to work to develop the Leigh Creek brown coal fields in South Australia in order to give our State independence in regard to electricity. Secondly, in the short term, he introduced a system of staggered hours for industry. Rather than have people put off and stood down from their employment because of the shortage of power and the crises that came during that period as a result of the shortage of coal in South Australia- the same situation faced the other States- staggered hours were introduced in South Australia. That was the pattern followed by other States during this critical period. 
On top of all this he did much more to encourage industry in South Australia. He reduced taxes, cut government charges and, above all, he preserved harmonious industrial relations with industry generally. Statistics show that during this period time lost in industrial disputes in South Australia was less than one-tenth of the average for Australia. With this industrial expansion, which was accelerating rapidly, it became apparent to industry generally that it could produce goods in South Australia on a basis which was more than comparative with other States. Hence,- we had new industries come to South Australia, not only from within Australia but also from the United Kingdom, the United States of America and other countries. I shall just mention for the record a few of these large companies that came to South Australia: Stewarts and Lloyds (Australia) Pty Ltd, Davies, Coop and Co. Ltd, the Philips electrical company, which transferred from New South Wales to South Australia, and Chrysler Australia Ltd, which set up the whole of its motor industry in the State of South Australia. 
In addition, a number of local industries within South Australia expanded. I refer to such industries as Simpson Pope Ltd, which is still a big industry today, Hills Industries Ltd and Kelvinator Australia Ltd. So, South Australia finished up with a more broadly based and soundly based economy. Our population soared also. It increased from a population of some 600,000 people in 1938 to more than a million. We saw great increases in so many ways. The number of houses constructed doubled during this period. 
Quite frankly, during this period the progress in South Australia became the envy of the Commonwealth. New cities were established. Elizabeth, situated within about 20 miles of Adelaide, was established as a new industrial city. We saw Salisbury, which was a rural town near Elizabeth, suddenly expand. Today Salisbury is quite a city in itself. All of this was due to the industrial expansion that took place in South Australia. 
I want to refer again to the balanced economy which I mentioned earlier. The Premier of South Australia,  Mr Playford,  as he then was, and his Government did not overlook the rural sector of South Australia. Farms throughout the State were supplied with 240 volt power over a great number of years. Cheap power was provided in rural areas. Other forms of encouragement were given to rural industry. In the area of transportation, better roads were provided. Just to mention one area of primary production, South Australia went from an annual production of some 3.3 million bushels per annum in 1938 to some 4,632.7 million bushels in 1965, an increase of over 1,400 per cent. Let me make it clear that whilst there was emphasis upon the industrial development of South Australia and the economic stability of the State, all sectors of the community were taken into that area of development and encouraged to expand and increase their production. 
On top of all this the South Australian Government provided incentives. These were accompanied by cheaper industrial costs and thus there was a cumulative effect. Therefore, industry kept being attracted to the State of South Australia. South Australia was no longer a rural based State; rather it was a State with a well balanced and sound economy. Unfortunately, in the last few years the scene has changed considerably. 
Costs and taxes in South Australia have increased. We have now lost to the other States, particularly the eastern States, the cost advantage that we had for so long. Not only are many new industries not coming to South Australia but also some industries have left the State. In preference to expanding in South Australia, South Australian based industries are today expanding their subsidiaries or off-shoots in another State. I give as an example the situation concerning air conditioning firms. From discussions I have learned that some 18 firms that were engaged in manufacturing and contracting in the air conditioning field in South Australia have either ceased their operations or moved interstate. One could give many more examples. 
The industrial sector has decreased in size in recent years with a consequent fall in industrial employment. As I said earlier, unemployment in this country is a great and grave problem but unemployment is an even greater problem in South Australia than it is in any other State. I refer to figures that give an indication of the proportion of unemployment among the work force in South Australia and Victoria. The figure for South 
Australia is 7.34 per cent and the figure for Victoria, South Australia's near neighbour, is only 5.78 per cent. I say 'only' because I am speaking on a comparative basis. I am not happy with either of those figures. I hope that there will be an upturn in the employment situation. But the figures show clearly that South Australia has the greatest problem of any State in regard to unemployment. 
Whilst there has been a downturn in industrial employment generally in South Australia there has been a great upturn in the number of people who have been taken into the Public Service, which is an entirely different situation. Here we find that the numbers are increasing at what can only be described as an alarming rate. Today in South Australia there are over 130 departments within departments, if I can put it that way. Figures show that from June 1971 to April 1978, South Australia had the greatest percentage increase in the number of State government employees of any State in Australia- a rise of 47.8 per cent. This was during a time when governments were saying that we should start to ease off and put ceilings on the numbers in the Public Service. This is something that most States in Australia have done but it has been totally ignored in South Australia. In 1978, South Australia had a greater percentage of employees working for the State government than any of the mainland States in Australia- in fact some 26.2 per cent. In the period between 1971 and 1978 South Australia had a greater percentage rise- I emphasise, a greater percentage rise- in the proportion of employees working for the State Government than any of the other States, being a rise of some 33 per cent. In 1978, South Australia has proportionally the biggest number of State government employees compared with private sector employees of any mainland State. In fact, it has some 40 State government employees for every 100 private employees. 
The figures compiled in a review by the Bank of New South Wales show that three in every 10 people in the work force in South Australia are employed either by the South Australian Government or within local government and that nearly half of the total South Australian Budget for 1977-78 went on salaries for government employees- some $530m out of a total Budget of $l,100m-odd. As a result of this empire building of what one could describe as a non-productive bureaucracy we find higher government charges and taxes. Since  Mr Dunstan  came to power State taxes have increased by over 400 per cent. The total State tax in dollars per head of population in 1976-77 was 5 per cent higher than in any other State. So honourable senators can see what I mean when I say that the cost advantages of South Australia have been gradually whittled away until it is now finding itself in a situation of disadvantage. 
Over the last four years costs have risen dramatically. Electricity charges have risen by something like 1 1 per cent per annum. With regard to electricity, I shall refer to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser.  Incidentally, the State Government saw fit to introduce a 37i3-hour working week for the Electricity Trust of South Australia. It was stated that this would not lead to any real increase in power costs. But in the recent South Australian Budget there was a 10 per cent increase in charges. It was the second within 14 months. The newspaper article questions how much of this increased charge is due to the fact that the 37^-hour working week is being introduced into the power supply system in South Australia. We can see what is happening with socialisation through the doctrinaire policies of the South Australian Government. As I said earlier, our heritage is being whittled away by maladministration, if I might put it that way. 
Water charges have gone up by 100 per cent in the last four years. On top of this water quotas have been reduced. So there has been an increase of more than 100 per cent because people have to pay for excess water usage after a lower level of usage. There has also been a rise in vehicle and road taxes. In this regard South Australia again comes out as the dearest State in Australia. If we look at the figures about road cost outlays in dollars per head of population for 1976-77 we find that in South Australia the figure was up to $53.50. The closest figure to that is the figure for Victoria of $50.53. The figure for Queensland was $37.98. Again, transport costs are up. We know what effect transport costs have on costs within industry and within the community. One could go on about that. 
I turn to what has happened in respect to housing in South Australia. We hear a great deal from the Opposition about housing. What is the position? Whilst members of the Australian Labor Party in this place stand up and express grave concern about the cost of housing to the young people of this country, South Australia leads the field in housing costs. In this regard I quote from the Housing Industry Association's paper of April 1 978. It states: 
South Australia suffered the highest percentage increases of any State or territory in Australia in the cost of finance, land and the home itself from 1971 to 1977. The cost of finance had risen 322.7 per cent, land by 233.3 per cent and homes by 160.8 percent. 
Let us look now at a breakdown on a square metre basis. Over the 1972-77 period the cost per square metre for a home in Western Australia went up by 76 per cent and in South Australia, believe it or not, the cost has gone up by some 123 per cent. We have heard the Opposition talking about and expressing concern for the increased costs and prices of homes for young people. How does it feel about the young people in South Australia? As I said, the price of land in South Australia in the years 1971 to 1977 rose some 233 per cent. The total cost of land and house has gone up by 174 per cent. In Western Australia over that period the cost of land has gone up 4 1 per cent and the cost of houses and land has gone up 81 per cent. Honourable senators opposite should compare the increase in the cost of house and land in Western Australia with the increase in South Australia of 1 74 per cent. 
This is the reason why tonight I am standing in this place and referring to another Budget that has been introduced into a parliament in recent times- the Budget of the Government of South Australia. Unfortunately the State is facing great economic problems- I emphasise 'great economic problems'. Industry is tending to leave our State. Industry is concerned. It is frightened of what the Government will do next. We have seen what the Government has done over a period. I have mentioned all of the costs. The South Australian Government has proposed such things as worker participation. It has introduced and doubled payroll tax. It has brought in other laws including laws for the provision of credit. One could go on. Instead of seeing an expansion of industry in South Australia we are seeing an exodus of industry. 
-We will change the Government, senator. The State is all right; the Administration is wrong. Nothing is wrong with our State. Tom Playford proved that. All that I have referred to has happened since Playford gave up and Dunstan came to power. He is undertaking a slow Whitlam exercise and the people of South Australia have not had a chance to wake up until now and to see what it is all about. If the honourable senator does not believe me I refer him to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 19 April this year. The article is headed: 'Spartans are at Adelaide's walls'. It starts: 
Don Dunstan seems to think he can get by with making South Australia the cultural centre of Australia. But poetry readings and festivals aren't going to get us out of our current problems '. 
The  speaker  was one of the industrial people of South Australia. 
The article continues: 
Two events earlier this month publicly signalled the revisionist mood which is seeping into the attitudes of South Australia 's administrators. 
The article then referred to land price controls. I have already cited the escalation of land prices in South Australia where land has been under Government control- socialism. The article continues: 
One was the announcement that land price controls, imposed in November 1973 at the height of populist furore over land speculation, were to be dropped. 
The second, a day later, was the disclosure that plans for implementation of industrial democracy in South Australia were to be quietly shelved. 
South Australia was again to be the pace setter of Australia with 'the new way'- if I can put it that way- but the tragedy was that unfortunately many of the industrialists of South Australia decided that they would go their own way. There was an exodus across the borders of South Australia into areas in which they had far more confidence in the government and knew that they would not be caught up by the socialist disease. I repeat again that bureaucracy was the popular movement and profit was a dirty word. I quote now from the  Advertiser  of '29 April 1976. Under the heading 'Yugoslav model for South Australia worker participation' the paper reports: 
South Australia's Industrial Democracy Unit will draw up worker participation plans based on experience with "workers councils" '. 

 - Senator Cavanagh says that that is all right. He should wait to hear what the people of South Australia have to say. He already knows what the industrialists in South Australia are saying and what the workers are saying. The article says that the Premier, after looking at worker participation and industrial self-management programs in Yugoslavia and Austria, chose Yugoslavia. That is not socialist. I refer now to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 17 May 1978 headed: 'Dunstan democracy scares workers'. The article states: 
We have to control our destiny. Unless that happens we will be screwed by the system and all the comfortable reforms of the Dunstan Government will be to no avail '. 
If Dunstan continues to frighten industry with talk of industrial democracy and worker control then I won 't be able to find a job if I'm next off ' at this place '. 
The article continues: 
Comments from two Chrysler workers who survived round one of the latest sackings at Chrysler's South Australian plant last Friday. 
The article is dated 17 May 1978. If  Senator Cavanagh  is not happy I am quite prepared to incorporate this article. I seek leave for it to be incorporated in  Hansard.  If it is incorporated  Senator Cavanagh  will be able to ascertain the author and get his own cuttings from the library. 
Leave not granted. 

 - Senator Cavanagh does not want the document incorporated. The truth hurts. Like many South Australians I have been concerned for a long time. Today the Press and the people generally are expressing their concern. Tragically, industry is expressing its concern in a real way. Industry today has cut back because of the lack of confidence in South Australia. In fact, industry will not have confidence in South Australia and there will not be an upturn in South Australia while we have a government like the Dunstan Government in charge. For so long  Mr Dunstan  has done so many things and now, because we are nearing another election perhaps in 1980 or 1981, he is starting to back away a little from industrial democracy and so many other things. But the people know that if the Dunstan Government is elected for another three years we will see industrial democracy. Industry knows these things, and that is why I repeat that South Australia will not progress again while we have a capital D as the leader of the Government in our State. It is time for change in South Australia. Industry and the populace itself can certainly make sure, when they get the opportunity, that that happens. 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he has seen a statement by  Mr Jim  Leslie, the Managing Director of Mobil Australia, in which he stated that his company had just made an exciting breakthrough which may make the coal liquefaction process much closer to being economic by using a catalyst which will convert methanol directly into 96 octane lead-free high quality gasoline and thus eliminate further processing, with a big saving in costs. I also ask the Minister whether he can say if any research in this area is being carried out in Australia. If not, will he take up this important matter, which could be of great benefit to Australia, particularly in view of our vast coal deposits, which include billions of tonnes of good quality coal in the Cooper Basin of South Australia but at great depths and at present unusable due to our limited technological knowledge at this stage? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen reports of another natural gas find of some 200,000 cubic metres per day in the Cooper Basin which is regarded as a new field of great potential? Is he also aware that it has been officially reported today that Strzelecki well No. 3, some 32 miles southeast of Moomba in South Australia, has flowed oil of 44 degrees specific gravity at the rate of some 2,400 barrels per day and that the exploration companies have also stated that they have not as yet reached basement rock, which is also very important? Will these new and important discoveries not further upgrade the proved and collective reserves of the Cooper Basin? Does not this new find in liquids add weight to the argument in favour of the establishment of a petrochemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia? The latest find of liquids at Strzelecki No. 3 would not require a liquids pipeline, unless other liquids in the various areas of Moomba could also be collected and transmitted to a petrochemical liquids plant. Will these liquids probably lay unutilised for many years unless they are converted to petrochemicals? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Health recall my asking a question about the relationship of histamines to Australian red wines and the report of a  Dr Forrest  who stated that after three years of research his study showed that there were no untoward levels of histamines in Australian red wines.  His  previous statement was one of the issues which earlier had caused much concern about the level of histamines in Australian red wines. Will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to make a statement clarifying the situation in regard to the level of histamines in Australian red wines to see whether the position of this Australian industry, which was damaged so much by incorrect information being supplied to members of the general public, can be recovered. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that  Mr Ian  Smith, the Prime Minister of Rhodesia, and the Reverend N. Sithole, a black member of the Interim Rhodesian Executive Council, are visiting the United States of America to put their case for a peaceful settlement in Rhodesia? As Australia has allowed entry to people who have put one point of view on the Rhodesian situation, will the Government allow entry to  Mr Smith  and the Reverend N. Sithole if they request it, or if requests are made for such entry, to enable them to put their views and to inform the Australian public on the Rhodesian situation in the hope that such communication can be encouraged and that it may help to avoid further tragedy and bloodshed which affects both blacks and whites in that country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) Is the total annual cost of the Special Broadcasting Service to the Australian community for the year 1977-78 $ 1 ,00 1 ,000, as indicated by the revised estimates. 
Do these estimates include appropriate charges for depreciation and interest on capital charges. 
) Do these amounts include any items of capital nature. 
What are the total funds invested by the Government in operating the Special Broadcasting Service. 
Are any funds from bodies such as the Australia Council provided for operation of the Special Broadcasting Service; if so, what bodies, and how much is provided. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Science by saying that I am aware that already questions have been asked of him concerning the problem of the presence of European carp in various lakes and rivers. Has the Minister seen reports, and, if so, are they correct, that the early great increase in the numbers of European carp in the River Murray system appears to have slowed down, but that little is known of the effects of this voracious weedeating fish on the ecology of Australia's biggest river? Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation done any research into the ecology of the River Murray, with particular regard to the presence of European carp? Does the Minister have knowledge of any research into the control of European carp which involves the introduction to the River Murray systems of a predator fish such as barramundi, which is both an excellent table and game fish and a predator which thrives in the northern rivers of Australia? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he has seen reports that President Carter has now reversed his previous views with regard to expenditure on research into and development of fast breeder reactors; that over the next three years $ 1,550m will be spent to enable the United States of America to keep up with western European countries, and Russia, in the development of and research into fast breeder reactors. I ask also whether the delays in uranium mining in the Northern Territory that have been caused by the indecision of the Northern Land Council will encourage further research into and development of fast breeder reactors throughout the world and encourage other countries to turn to other suppliers of uranium, which in turn could mean, if the trend continued, that Aboriginals in the Northern Territory would miss out completely on royalties and monetary benefits from the sale of uranium. 
In listening to a good deal of this debate one thing that amuses me is that some Opposition senators have seen their way clear to criticise honourable senators on this side of the chamber because they have the honesty and courage to question parts of Government legislation. The challenge comes from the Opposition senators: Where is your courage? You will not cross the floor'. I remind honourable senators opposite that on numerous occasions honourable senators on this side have crossed the floor if they have felt strongly enough about something. I have yet to see one Labor Party senator have the courage to cross the floor. Opposition senators are not game to cross the floor, because they know that they will be excommunicated immediately from their party if they do so. They have signed their lives away to their political party. I have crossed the floor in this place in relation to probate duty on numerous occasions. I firmly believe, and I have believed all my life, that it is iniquitous to individuals. I stood by my convictions and my party did not fire me. Do honourable senators opposite mean to tell me that they agree with everything that their party propounds and that they never feel so strongly about an issue that they wish they could cross the floor but do not have the courage to do it? Let us have no more of that drivel from them. The challenge that they have been throwing to this side of the chamber is a very tired argument. Not one of them has the courage to do it himself. I do not intend to cross the floor on this issue because I support the policy the Government has propounded. I make that very clear. 
I accept that many innocent people will be affected by this measure, but for years a great number of people have had a benefit over their work mates. People who have not taken their annual leave in a particular year have avoided tax. They have done so legally, but their work mates have not done so because they have taken their annual leave. Some people say how unfortunate this measure is for the worker. I make it clear that annual leave is an entitlement by law of each and every worker in this country. The great majority of workers in this country have taken their annual leave and have paid tax accordingly. Many people, for reasons of their own, have deferred their annual leave. They have accumulated it in the hope that when they retire they will be able to take it as a lump sum. The only people who are affected are those who retire. They pay tax on merely 5 per cent of their deferred income. 
Some of those people also had the ability to realise that they were hedging against inflation. Let us go back four years to when inflation was running at 16 per cent. I will not play politics; I am giving facts. At that stage people sought to obtain an escalation in wages. Over the last four years there has been a great escalation in wages in this country. Many people have been able to hedge against inflation. At the same time, they have saved themselves a lot of taxation by deferring their annual leave, while the great majority of workers have taken it and have paid tax on it. That is the reason I support the Government's legislation. I repeat, however, what I said earlier: Many people will be affected through their innocence. But many people through a businesslike approach were hoping that they would avoid a large amount of taxation which their work mates had to pay because they took their leave annually. I support this measure. I hope that the Government will continue to look at kinds of tax avoidance other than this kind. 
We also hear the argument that some people in senior executive positions have not had annual leave for four or five years and those people will pay a lot of taxation this year. I can only say that any business or enterprise that allows any of its senior personnel to go without annual leave for four years will have some pretty tired people in its administration. I doubt that very many people fall into this category. If they do, I would like to see the system under which they operate. Perhaps they get four or five days break after a conference. What are the reasons? 
I cannot understand how any man under extreme pressure would not need, for physical and mental reasons, at least some break during a year. How any individual can go for four years without any annual leave- I have heard this stated- surprises me. I support the Government's legislation, for the reasons I have given. I repeat that, unfortunately, some people will be affected. When we throw out the net we often have to catch a few small fish too. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. With the continued tragic deaths in Rhodesia of so many black and white people being killed by black guerrillas, will the Australian Government encourage the major powers- the United Kingdom and the United States of America- to take steps to stop the current butchery by the insurgent guerrillas which is doing nothing to bring about a peaceful solution in Rhodesia, but rather is only bringing about increasing and continuing tragedy to all people in that country? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security heard of a place near the Ranger uranium area known as 'Camp Concern' where a number of people have been camped for a considerable time as a protest against uranium mining? Can the Minister say whether these people are receiving unemployment benefits and whether they have applied for or been offered employment? Further, what is the position regarding the payment of unemployment benefits to people who appear to be laying and lazing about in the sun and showing no desire to obtain employment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) Is the total cost for the Australian Broadcasting Commission estimated to be $ 1 3 1 ,869,000 for the year 1977-78. 
What are the amounts charged for depreciation and interest on capital invested. 
What are the total funds invested by the Government in operating the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask the Minister whether he has seen reports that last weekend the Prime Minister stated: 
The Federal Government would allow States to borrow overseas on their own  inititative  for major State projects. 
Can the Minister now confirm that those reports are correct and, if so, that the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia will have the Federal Government's backing at the forthcoming Loan Council meeting? Can South Australians now look forward to the establishment of Redcliff, which will not only be of national benefit but will also effectively obtain maximum utilisation of the liquid hydrocarbons in the Cooper Basin in South Australia which would otherwise be wasted? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that it is estimated that current emission control procedures for motor vehicles reduce efficiency and increase fuel consumption by as much as 8 per cent? Is he also aware that stage 3 of Australian Design Rules 27A, relating to emission control, is estimated to add another 5 per cent in fuel consumption? As South Australia and New South Wales, to my knowledge, are the only States intending to introduce stage 3 early in 1979, will the Government support the stand of the other States so that stage 3 will not be enforced on all Australian motorists and New South Wales and South Australia will have to go it alone in penalising motorists in their own States with added fuel consumption costs and other general cost increases? 
-I wish to speak this afternoon on a matter that is of very great interest and concern to South Australians, and. has been for some considerable time. I refer to the proposed petrochemical project for Redcliff in South Australia. It is something in which all of us; including the Federal representatives from South Australia from both sides of this chamber, are very interested. From the beginning,  Senator Don  Jessop and I have taken a keen and active interest in the project to help to get this important industry established in South Australia. 1 was delighted to read this week of the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Federal Government now will allow States to borrow on their own initiative for major projects, particularly in relation to borrowing for infrastructure. The whole issue as to whether the Redcliff project would be established in recent times has evolved around the establishment of infrastructure. Now the responsibility is given to the States. I commend the Federal Government for this change in policy. I think it is a great step forward. The States are given responsibility to act on their own initiatives- of course with the clearance of the Loan Council. Nevertheless, as I said, the Federal Government has taken a great step forward. 
It is one that gives great encouragement to us in South Australia. 
Had it not been for the unfortunate interference of the Whitlam Government, Redcliff would have been established and in operation now. The Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  in 1971 in discussions with the Dow Chemical Co. (Aust) Ltd, agreed to the establishment of a petrochemcial industry at Redcliff. Unfortunately, in 1973, the Whitlam Government saw fit to interfere and change the whole structure of the project, and we finished up with Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia leading a consortium for the establishment of Redcliff. Unfortunately the whole project was abandoned in 1975, but in the last couple of years we have seen the Dow Chemical Company again showing a very keen and positive interest- I emphasise the word 'positive'- in the establishment of a petrochemical industry at Redcliff in South Australia. 
One of the most heartening aspects of this new approach by the Dow Chemical Company has been that both the Premier of South Australia and the State Government have given wholehearted support and have made every assistance available for this project. The other thing that really! delights is that there has been a nationalState approach to this matter.  Mr David  Tonkin, the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia, has shown co-operation also. So politics has not come into this issue. I think it is an excellent example of what can be achieved by political parties and political leaders who work for the establishment of an industry that is to be of great benefit to their particular State, in this case South Australia. I commend both leaders for the way in which they have worked together on this matter. The same comment applies to the Federal representatives of this Parliament. On no occasion have I seen any South Australian senator on either side of the chamber do other than work towards this project. 
It is interesting to note that while the issue of Redcliff has been coming to a head since the approach that was made to Loan Council, we suddenly saw on 12 September of this year this headline in the  Australian Financial Review:  ICI may hurry plans for big petrochemical plant'. This headline not only fascinated, but also concerned me. I wish to remind the Senate that ICI was the original main leader of the consortium which had been proposed by the Whitlam Government and which eventually abandoned the project. We know that ICI then must have been satisfied with the resources of feedstocks from the Cooper Basin for the project and with the situation proposed for Redcliff. We also know that ICI is a big concern- I will not say it is a monopoly- in Australia. Suddenly we find that it is making statements that it is going to hurry up plans to expand its petrochemical plant. One cannot help asking the question: Is ICI doing this purely to stop Redcliff from coming into being? I cannot emphasise that question too strongly. There is only room for one more petrochemical plant in Australia of the size and type that is proposed for Redcliff. It will be a large establishment; in fact, it will be on an international scale. The experts say that there is not room for more than one other. One cannot help wondering at the statement that ICI is hurrying p.'ans for a big petrochemical plant. I repeat: Is it doing so to stop the project at Redcliff and perhaps to give ICI the monopoly of the petrochemical industry in Australia? 
The project that is proposed at Redcliff is a big one. It will cost some $9,500m to establish, double what it would have cost had it been started in 1971. During the construction stage, which will be over some five years, it will employ some 4,500 people at an expenditure of some $300m. This in itself would give a great boost to employment and a great injection into the economy of South Australia, which is reflected through the whole of the country. When established the plant would give permanent employment to some 1,400 people. That is no mean figure. To get a permanent, stable industry that will employ some 1 ,400 people is a project that must seriously be considered. Of course, some $90m in taxes will flow to governments from this project. Another fact is that the main product from Redcliff would be caustic soda, something which at present is in short supply in Australia. In fact, Australia at present imports some 600,000 tonnes of caustic soda per annum. That incurs a bill of some $56m, which is a loss in the balance of payments because this money is going out of the country the whole time. That is the current demand but forecasts are that by the mid-1980s the requirements for Australia could be as high as 800,000 tonnes. 
The Premier of Western Australia has recently made statements about the expansion of the bauxite industry in that State. There are vast deposits of bauxite in Western Australia. If this expansion takes place it -is estimated that Australia's demand for caustic soda to be used in the' process of converting bauxite to alumina could increase to the tune of 1,150,000 tonnes per annum. So one can see that there is a high current demand in Australia for caustic soda and the possibility of future positive expansion of demand. I repeat that this is what the proposed Redcliff plant will be producing primarily. It will be producing a product that is in short supply in Australia, the orders for which will have to be filled from overseas purchases if it is not produced in Australia. So we have what one can classify as a very secure future market. Of course, many other by-products would come from the plant. I refer to such products as plastics, detergents, and even the various materials that will help in the manufacture of paper, soaps and many other goods. 
The questions have been raised in the past about the sufficiency- the back-up of reserves- of feedstock, which of course will be supplied from the Cooper Basin. We are aware that the Dow Chemical Company has been looking into this question very closely in co-operation with the Cooper Basin consortium and is fully satisfied that there are sufficient reserves in the Cooper Basin for feedstocks for this proposed petrochemical plant. In fact, in the last few weeks we have heard reports that the Cooper Basin consortium has made another very encouraging strike of liquid hydrocarbons, in Strzlecki Well No. 3, which is flowing at the rate of many thousands of barrels per day. What this means is that if the petrochemical industry is established it will give companies great encouragement to do more exploration. 
It is all very well to say that companies will explore in the hope of finding more liquids or condensates. But what is the use of companies today spending some $600,000 to drill a hole and, having found gas, spending a few more hundred thousand dollars to prove the capacity or reserves of the field, only to find that because there is no market for the gas or condensate they have to sit on the reserves for many years? That is not the sort of investment that one can expect companies to make. If companies can clearly expect a demand for any finds that they make, they will go out and spend many millions of dollars to look for more of the liquid hydrocarbons that already exist in great quantities in that area. It is expected, with confidence, that there are many more trillions of cubic feet of gas and barrels of liquid condensates and liquid crudes. 
One of the other big problems that faces South Australia and New South Wales at present is that if the petrochemical industry is not established and more dry gas is not found in the Cooper Basin areas, the dry gas wells will virtually have been depleted by as early as 1982, and the companies will have to start hooking on to the wet gas fields. They will then have the problem of what to do with the condensates. Some of these wells have as much as 70 per cent liquid hydrocarbon mixed in with the gas. The companies will be faced with some alternatives. The same cost structure is required to extract wet gas. Costs are rising all the time. The proportion of gas obtained is less from wet gas than from dry gas. Hence, unless the liquids can be sold, another cost factor will be added in order to supply the dry gas to the Sydney and Adelaide markets. This leads only in one direction- increased prices for gas consumers. 
Another problem is what to do with the wet gas. This is not in sufficient supply at present to warrant the cost of constructing a gas pipeline to Adelaide. There are alternatives: The wet gas can be fed back into a dry gas hole. We appreciate that if this is done there is virtually a 70 per cent loss of a valuable energy resource. Wells rarely produce more than 30 per cent of their reserves unless expensive means of recovery, such as secondary or tertiary methods- which I will not go into in detail today- are used. They are very costly. Because of those costs the liquids can be flared off and virtually lost to the atmosphere. These are big problems which are faced not only by the oil companies within the Cooper Basin consortium but also by the governments of New South Wales and South Australia. Over and above that, as we are talking of energy conservation today, this is something that Australia also faces. 
There are many reasons why one hopes that the arguments concerning the Redcliff petrochemical industry in South Australia are accepted and that the project will go ahead. I mentioned earlier that the main contention over the proposed establishment of the petrochemical industry at Redcliff evolves around the cost of the infrastructure, which includes such things as a transmission pipeline, housing, roads and a wharf. The infrastructure is estimated at today's rates to cost some $250m-odd. Included in that figure is some $60m-odd for a pipeline and other associated works. Quite a deal of money is required. 
I am delighted, as I said earlier, that the Government has changed its policy with regard to the States borrowing for such things as infrastructures for major projects. The loans, however, will be subject to Loan Council agreement. I hope that the request for the loan will be agreed to by the Loan Council. In this way South Australia, New South Wales and Australia generally will benefit. One thing must be remembered when we talk about an infrastructure loan. I emphasise that it is only a loan. It will be repaid by the user company- the Dow Chemical Company. The money will be paid back over the years in the form of tariffs, wharfage charges, pipeline transmission costs and many other things. This loan will be repaid by the company concerned. 
The Redcliff site was chosen by the Dow Chemical Company from numerous sites throughout Australia because of its ideal position. It is in an area of cheap real estate in South Australia. It is situated on a gulf which is not subject to stormy conditions. It is close to the supply base for feed stock from the Cooper Basin. It is close to Lake Torrens which contains much brine. Good quality saline water from the open channels and shallow wells can be pumped directly by pipeline to evaporation paddocks or dams at Redcliff. The liquid will finish up as sodium chloride which is one of the feed stocks required by the proposed petrochemical industry. 
One could go on and state what the Dow Chemical Company has said about Redcliff and why it chose to establish a petrochemical industry in that area of Australia. The Dow Chemical Company and the Cooper Basin consortium have the support of South Australians and, in particular, the support of the Premier and  Dr Tonkin,  the Leader of the Opposition. I think the very fact that these two leaders have been prepared to work together shows clearly not only the need for this industry but their confidence that Redcliff is the ideal site for an industry that will be of benefit to South Australia and to the whole of this nation. I commend the two leaders for the way they have worked together. I am pleased to throw in my support as are other honourable senators from South Australia. We consider this a major project and hope that it will get the backing of the other States of the Commonwealth. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, follows the question asked by  Senator Sim.  I ask whether I am correct in stating that  Senator Sim's  question clearly spelt out that the United Kingdom intends to Start building another three nuclear reactors in England this year. Further, has this had the agreement of the British Labour Party, which forms the present Government of the United Kingdom? 
I support what  Senator Rae  said with regard to staff ceilings. I was concerned with the answer of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durrack)  to  Senator Rae.  I refer to this statement in the report of Estimates Committee B. 
Committee B agrees with the conclusion reached by that Committee that 'all Government undertakings fulfilling a commercial role should so far as possible, be managed on a commercial basis rather than that appropriate to the Public Service '. 
I read out that statement because I want to emphasise that what we are talking about is not staff ceilings in the broad sense. We are talking about the effect of the policy on staff ceilings on an area of commercial enterprise within the Atomic Energy Commission. As I understand the position, the Commission does conduct a commercial enterprise, in regard to its radioactive isotopes, in Australia. It also exports them against overseas competition. 
I also understand that the Commission could expand its markets if it had more staff. Therefore I pose this question to the Minister: Would he be prepared to communicate with the Commission and ask how many additional staff it would like, to assist in the further development of this commercial enterprise? We are not talking about government cutbacks and savings in government expenditure but about investment in labour in an area where there will be a return on investment and further revenue for the Atomic Energy Commission. I would be pleased if the Minister would look into the matter and find out from the Commission how many staff members it would like in order to expand its commercial operations; also, what the Governments attitude would be towards such an expansion, to increase the commercial activities of the Commission. 
I wish to refer to the River Murray Waters Agreement and in particular to the limitations upon the powers of the River Murray Commission. From discussions and inquiry during the meeting of the Estimates Committee I became very aware of just how much the River Murray Commission is limited. We appreciate that the River Murray 
Waters Agreement was signed back in 1914. In fact, the interest in the River Murray originated as far back as the 1890s in the Constitutional Convention which dealt more with trade and shipping on the river than with the water itself. Since then there have been improvements to the River Murray Waters Agreement and the establishment of the River Murray Commission, a Commission comprising the Commonwealth Government and the three States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. However, the Commission virtually deals only with water quantity and not with water quality. In my own State of South Australia where we are at the end of the line, if I. may put it that way, we have had great problems with the quality of water flowing down the River Murray. It has affected irrigation as far back as Victoria and New South Wales and on top of this Adelaide today is dependent on water reticulated and pumped from the River Murray to help with domestic supplies and services in the city of Adelaide. 
As I understand it, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  put out a Press statement recently dealing with amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement and in it he said: 
Over the past year or so, the Commission has thoroughly reviewed the existing Agreement to identify the changes which will now be necessary. These have been included in a substitute Agreement which has now been accepted by the Commonwealth and South Australia - 
I repeat 'by the Commonwealth and South Australia'- as a basis for negotiating a new Agreement. New South Wales and Victoria are examining this document and their acceptance will be necessary before a new agreement can be negotiated and matching legislation introduced to ratify it. 
He goes on to state: 
There has been increasing concern on the part of people and local organisations along the River Murray at the delay in giving legislative effect to the agreed water quality functions . . . 
I emphasise the words, 'water quality functions'- for the River Murray Commission . 
What concerns me greatly is that under the proposals, as I understand them, the new Commission still will have no power whatever when it comes to water quality. All that the River Murray Commission really can do is make representations to a State with regard to any concern the Commission may have about water quality. It does not have any power to determine or set standards with regard to water quality. All it can do is make requests and these requests can be made only if there is unanimity within the River Murray Commission. If there is an offending 
State among the three States represented on the Commission and that State does not agree with what the rest of the members of the Commission are propounding, there is no unanimity and, therefore, no request can be made to the offending State. It will be tragic if this situation is allowed to continue while new discussions for an agreement are taking place. Whilst the River Murray Commission does have control of the main stem or stream, as it is referred to, that is the River Murray, it has no control or power whatever over any inflow from any tributary or drain into the main system. 
South Australia has been sitting at the end of a drain for a long time and the drain has been getting worse for a number of years. I commend the States and authorities which are doing so much to overcome the salinity problem but Victoria and South Australia, which are dependent on the River Murray system, could finish up with a lot of trouble as a result of the proposed newsprint mill which is to be built at Albury. As I understand it, this mill is to be built away from the River Murray main stream but it will be close enough to enable effluent to flow into the River Murray. We know that paper mills, newsprint mills, are a great user of water and a great polluter. We have seen the effects of a paper mill which is operating in the south-east of South Australia. We have seen the tragedy of what has happened over the years through pollution. Now we are facing great risks, and I emphasise that they are great risks, with regard to the establishment of a newsprint industry in close proximity to the main River Murray stream because, as I understand the proposals, the Commission will have absolutely no power to give any directions with regard to water quality or effluent that may come into the river system. 
In fact, it is worse than that for the Commission can only make representations to, say, the appropriate New South Wales Minister providing all the members of the River Murray Commission are unanimous that they should make representations. If a State establishes an industry and the standards which it sets are not satisfactory to a body such as the River Murray Commission, I can hardly see the offending Minister, who is sitting on the Commission, agreeing to the Commission making representations to him about the matter. To me the proposal is fraught with problems. In fact, I go further and say that it is fraught with danger. We have to realise that the River Murray today is the major river of this country. It is a river which flows virtually through three States- it is a border for two and flows through South Australia- and a river upon which so many people in those States, including those in the city of Adelaide, are dependent. It should be looked at as a national resource and not a resource for only four different groups. 

 - Senator Rae just passed some comment, and I will refer in a moment to what the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution said in its report of 1970 which was presented to this chamber and to the Parliament. I think it is necessary that consideration be given to the overall river system as a single resource and that there be more responsibility or power given to the River Murray Commission itself. In its 1 970 report on water pollution the Senate Select Committee said: 
This Committee has no doubt that the salinity of the Murray River is one of the biggest water pollution problems facing Australia. It threatens large exporting primary industries and its menace is growing every year. Despite the work of a number of dedicated growers, there is some evidence indicating irresponsibility on the part of individual growers, a lack of co-ordination between the States, an even more lamentable lack of anti-pollution powers among the organisations involved with the management and use of the Murray . . . 
I think we have to underline the words:  . . even more lamentable lack of anti-pollution powers among the organisations involved in the management and use of the Murray, and a pressing need for some overall organisation which could analyse the problem and effectively solve it. 
I heartily support what that Committee said in 1970.I think it has greater relevance today than it had then because today we are facing the problem of a new industry on the River Murray, an industry which is renowned for its problems of pollution. Yet the River Murray Commission will virtually have no power to set standards in any way in relation to the inflow into the river from that industry. It concerns me greatly that all the Commission can do in any case is make representations which can be made only if its partners are unanimous that the representations should be made. I hope that the governments concerned will Took more closely at this situation and give more power to the River Murray Commission, particularly where industrial development takes place, to make sure that South Australia which for years has been on the end of the drain, will not be placed in great danger of actually going down the drain. 
I thank the Minister for his response, but I still wish to express my concern. The danger is still there and my concern is still there. I appreciate that it could be very difficult to resolve a situation such as this with regard to quality. The River Murray Commission for so long has been dealing with quantity on its own and not with quality. Quality is the key to the lock at present, with industrial development taking place- what I can call dirty industrial development- in a newsprint mill. I would hope that the new agreement will resolve the situation so that the Commission will be able to set certain standards with regard to industrial pollution of water. This problem is entirely different from the agricultural problems caused by the salinity of the River Murray where the States and certain organisations, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, have done an extremely good job in their research into this area. We have a new problem probably arising which relates to industrial pollution. I hope that the Commission will have some powers at least to set some standards to make sure that a State such as South Australia, and the irrigation areas further down the river system, will be fully protected, as they should be. 
-I ask the Minister for Science: As the Australian Government is required to give a certificate relating to the various constituents of wine and liquor exported from Australia, is any similar certificate required by the Australian Government when importing liquor or when imported spirit is bottled upon its arrival in Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the introduction of stage 3 of Australian Design Rule 27a for vehicle emission control in Australia would increase fuel consumption by 5 per cent, which would be in addition to the present 8 per cent increase resulting from stage 2 of emission control? Is the Minister aware also that current emission controls are estimated to cost the Australian motorist some $500m over the next five years and that the introduction of stage 3 would add greatly to that cost? As New South Wales and South Australia are the only two States not in favour of deferring stage 3, will the Federal Government support the policy of the other States and propose that only vehicles registered in New South Wales and South Australia have stage 3 emission control and that the component parts required be fitted as optional extras? In that way the rest of Australia's motorists will not be penalised with this extra cost and inefficiency and a great saving of fuel which is a very scarce energy resource will result. 
Might I say at the outset that I was not surprised at the reaction of the Opposition to the proposed amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. One appreciates that, whilst  Senator Button  dealt in detail with some particular objections to the amendments, the overall policy of the Opposition at this stage is one of total opposition to the mining and export of uranium. I emphasise the words 'at this stage*, because there is no doubt that we have seen changes in the policies of the Labor Party in the various States throughout Australia. For example, we know that  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, has already made approaches to see whether an enrichment plant can be established in New South Wales. I shall have a little bit to say about the position of South Australia in this respect later on. 

 Senator Button quoted the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  I just wish that he had quoted the Minister's words more fully and had not stopped halfway through the sentence to which he was referring. To put the record straight I will quote from the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that a mining authority to be issued under section 4 1 of the Act for mining at Ranger affords the person on whom the authority has been conferred security of tenure similar to that enjoyed by the holders of a mining lease under the laws in force in the Northern Territory and most of the States while at the same time - 
And these are the words that I hope  Senator Button  will note- ensuring that it is subject to appropriate controls. 

 Senator Button had quite a bit to say about the environmental aspects of uranium mining. Perhaps I should remind the Opposition that a package of Bills dealing with the proposed mining of uranium in the Northern Territory was introduced early this year. The package included legislation which dealt with the Kakadu National Park; legislation which dealt with the rights of Aboriginals; and legislation which dealt very heavily with environmental aspects. The package also included legislation which dealt with particular aspects of the mining of Ranger itself to make sure that there will be research, strict control and supervision the whole time with regard to pollution. So one cannot accept much of the argument put forward by  Senator Button  today. The Government has been responsible in establishing safeguards and the appropriate controls. We know that the safeguards that were put down by the Government with regard to the sale of uranium overseas are the strictest safeguards of any country which exports uranium at present. 
The companies are also showing a great deal of responsibility and there is a need for this responsibility. I give them full marks for what they are doing. 
There are two main areas in this legislation. One, of course, as I have mentioned, is the security of tenure. This is an important area because at present, as the Ranger venturers have pointed out that under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act there is no provision whatsoever for adequate security of tenure. This places companies in a most invidious position because of the investment of millions of dollars that is needed for mine development and production. There is need, of course, to make sure that provision is made for security of tenure. 
I refer to the memorandum of understanding to which  Senator Button  made reference todaythe memorandum of understanding between the Commonwealth of Australia, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd. 
It was drawn up between the Whitlam Government and these two companies for the purpose of mining uranium at Ranger. The following statement is made in clause 2 (e) of the memorandum: 
In particular, Australia- 
Shall grant any necessary and appropriate authorities under the Atomic Energy Act. The initial authority shall be granted for a period of tweny one years. 
The Government has set about to make sure that that objective is met. Clause 2 (g) of the memorandum states: 
The Ranger Project shall continue in force during the economic life of the uranium ore deposits in the Project area. 
Who can say that the economic life of that mine will stop at 2 1 years? Nobody can. The Government proposes to give security of tenure so that agreement will be reached between the Northern Land Council and the consortium with regard to the further mining of uranium beyond 21 years. 
I refer now to another clause in the memorandum. The original agreement set out very clearly that the Commission- that is the Australian Government- would invest72½ per cent of the capital in Ranger, Peko 13¾ per cent and EZ 13¾ per cent and that the Commonwealth and the two companies would share in the profits on a50/50 basis. The Government is saying that if mining is to be extended beyond 21 years the current arrangement under which the Government pays a72½ per cent share will be done away with and costs will be shared equally. This proposal is in contrast to the generous situation proposed by the Whitlam Government in the memorandum of understanding in respect of the Ranger mining project. 
One appreciates, of course, that the Whitlam Labor Government was very keen to establish uranium mining in Australia. But we have seen a slight change of policy since then:I hope that wisdom will prevail and that we will see another change. I will be one person who will not criticise the Opposition when that change comes about. I know that many members of the Opposition today hope that that change will come about. They have been extremely concerned at the present policy of the Labor Party as expressed in the different States throughout Australia. I am waiting until the next ALP Federal Executive conference, which will be held next year. 
Yes. It could not be held in a better city because that is where the changes are really needed. I will refer to that in a moment. When we consider the amount of uranium that will be mined- I refer to the Ranger project and to the Yeelirrie deposits in Western Australia, which the Western Australian Government is to get under way- and the need for safeguards we can understand the need for enrichment of uranium to take place in Australia. I think that members of the Opposition would agree with that. There is a need for such a facility. 
South Australia has led the way in research into uranium enrichment. The Dunstan Government- I give it full marks in this respect; I am not criticising it- has backed an expert uranium enrichment committee that has been working on research in this area for some six years. South Australia is regarded as the State with the greatest expertise in the field of uranium enrichment. Therefore South Australia has a very good start if the proposal to establish an enrichment plant somewhere in Australia is implemented. This specialist enrichment committee in South Australia has been having very close discussions with a consortium known as Urenco-Centec. It is a consortium of German, Dutch and British expertise. Urenco is recognised as one of the three major enrichment groups in the world. In addition, and perhaps more importantly, it is recognised as a world leader in enrichment technology. We know that it has shown great interest in establishing an enrichment plant in South Australia. We even know that it has had discussions with government in that State, not merely with the enrichment committee. I hope that eventually we will see an enrichment plant established in South Australia. Such a plant will be established somewhere in Australia. 
I express concern because at present the policy of the South Australian Government is such that it is not possible, even though we have this expert committee, to set up an enrichment plant in that State. However, we know that Western Australia, through its Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, is doing everything possible to get the mining of uranium under way and would also like to see an enrichment plant established in that State. So already there are three States competing for the establishment of an enrichment plant. One is held by the Labor Party. Another is also held by the Labor Party but at this stage it is not coming out in favour of uranium mining, although it has done excellent work in regard to uranium enrichment and I give it full marks for that. One of the tragedies is that if we in South Australia miss out on this we will miss out on the chance to employ a lot of people. Enrichment is a big business. It would generate a lot of revenue for South 
Australia, which would greatly help it. However, unless the State Government changes its stance, its policies being what they are, at this stage one cannot hold out too much hope for the future. 
We know also that in South Australia there are great deposits of uranium. There is a deposit at Beverley near Lake Frome in the north of South Australia which, as I understand it, could get under way very quickly. For mine development and production the lead time would not be very great. Possibly South Australia, if it were soon to begin getting into production in the actual mining of uranium could still lead the other States. This would give it a great chance to have the enrichment plant established there. 
Another reason why I hope that the State Government will change its mind is that at Roxby Downs, about which quite a deal has been said in the last few months, there are vast copper and uranium deposits. It also has some gold. Roxby Downs will not be a small mining project. In fact, it will be a colossus. That is the only way in which I can describe it. It will be far greater than Mount Isa. I go further and say that probably it will be one of the biggest mining projects in Australia. I repeat, it will be a colossus. The tragedy is that is also has uranium deposits. That should be a benefit but, because of policy, Roxby Downs cannot get under way. There could be an infrastructure in that place alone- here we are talking about people, I remind  Senator Button-  employing far in excess of the 700 people who are employed at Mount Isa. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. Inasmuch as  Senator Button  made reference to the policy of his party and ours, I have been dealing with that of the Australian Labor Party federally on uranium. I am also trying to prove that with the mining of uranium at Ranger there will eventually be a need to meet safeguards and guidelines, to establish an enrichment plant in Australia. That being so, I am building up a case concerning where in Australia generally that enrichment plant, which will be both a benefit and a necessity, should be located. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! We are discussing the point of order. The material which  Senator Button  has presented to the chair is recognised, as is the relationship of the debate to the subject matter of the Bill that is before the Senate.  Senator Young,  you have perhaps strayed from the actual text of the Bill. I recognise the argument that you have just presented in regard to policy, but in the interests of confining the debate in a way that is acceptable to the Senate, I would ask you to relate your remarks in detail to the text of the measure. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I might respond to say that I hope that honourable senators opposite will heed  Senator Button's  comments regarding my references to certain areas. If we are to confine ourselves to certain specifics it must be true for honourable members on both sides of the chamber. 
Ranger will now be getting under way. There will be mining development there. Even though there may be opposition, it will take place. There has been a need to give security of tenure and equally to stand by the guidelines established by the Federal Government and set out clearly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last year. There is also need for the establishment in Australia of an enrichment plant. With enriched uranium it is far easier to comply with safeguards than if one merely exports U308, or yellowcake, as it is commonly known. South Australia has a favourable geographical situation and vast uranium deposits. The Ranger development has estimated reserves of the order of 500,000 tonnes. However, the estimates of the deposits in South Australia have now been revised and stand at some 500,000 tonnes. That is the equal of the expected yield from Ranger. 
With this vast amount of uranium, as well as that in the Northern Territory, there will be need for an enrichment plant. South Australia is the place, in Australia generally, where a plant should be established. I hope that the policies of the Government of South Australia will change because of the great benefits that that would bring to the State. I also hope that next year there will be a policy change on the part of the Australian Labor Party. If that happened, many members of the Australian Labor Party who sit on the other side of the chamber could at last stand up and speak openly, as they would like to do, in supporting the mining and development of uranium, as they did when their party was in Government. 
South Australia is presently a poverty-stricken State. However, the Province of Saskachewan in Canada generates revenue from royalties of some $50m a year, and its deposits are much smaller than those of the Northern Territory, and especially smaller than those of South Australia. I remind  Senator Button  that such development would bring benefits not only in revenue and to the economy but also in employment. I am glad that the Commonwealth Government has seen fit to give stability of arrangement to mining companies involved in the consortium that is developing Ranger so that it can get on with the job and generate both employment and revenue, and as well supply a material that is basic to the requirements of a world that has turned nuclear- not at our request but of necessity and as a result of its own decisions. The world is hungry for uranium and it is up to us to make sure that we supply the means of producing some of that greatly-needed energy. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. With the need to conserve our own oil reserves, which is further heightened by the situation in Iran at the present time, will the Government give its support to the States of Queensland, Western Australia, Tasmania and Victoria which are opposed to the introduction of the Australian Design Rule relating to stage 3 of exhaust emission control at this stage and support its deferment? Will the Government also give serious consideration to supporting a proposal that the component parts on motor vehicles required for stage 3 be sold as optional extras only on those new vehicles purchased in the States of New South Wales and South Australia if those two States press ahead with stage 3 which, incidentally, would add a further 5 per cent increase in fuel consumption over the 8 per cent increase resulting from the introduction of stage 2? Finally, why should motorists in a majority of States in which stage 3 really is not necessary be penalised with added costs to meet the demands of one or two States? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the position regarding discussions between Australia and Indonesia on the off-shore region between Australia and East Timor? When will a statement be made on this matter? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask the Minister whether he has heard reports that, of the doctors registered to practice in Australia, one in three do not actually live here and that they are paying the registration fees as some sort of insurance should they decide to return to Australia. I ask: Can the Minister say whether these figures are correct? If they are, will the Minister take steps to see thai doctors registered in Australia practise in Australia, or have good and valid reasons why they remain on the register even though they are living overseas? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that British pensions are paid to Australian residents direct by cheque in British currency and that some banks in Australia are charging as much as 66c per cheque to convert these cheques to Australian dollars, which can amount to as much as $13 per annum? I also ask the Minister: Are this charge and the  amount  charged the result of  commercial  decisions of individual banks? Further, is there any particular reason for these pensions being paid by cheque in British currency initially? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. With the Western Australian Government giving the go ahead for the mining of uranium at Yeelirrie in Western Australia and the request of the Premier of Western Australia for the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in that State, can the Minister say whether this latest development will have any adverse effects on the establishment of an enrichment plant in South Australia while the present South Australian Government continues with its current attitude towards the mining of uranium, even though South Australia, with the backing of the South Australian Government, is the most advanced State in Australia on research and negotiations for the establishment of uranium enrichment? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Minister seen a Press report in which it is stated that for many reasons in the long term national interest the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia should be built before any other suggested plant, including the all important reason of the balance of payments, as production at Redcliff would replace many products now imported, including caustic soda? I ask the Minister whether he has also seen reports that one of the competitors of Redcliff for the establishment of a petrochemical plant in Australia has 'a major hand in the import of caustic soda necessary to meet the shortfall between local demand and supply' and that its proposed petrochemical plant would concentrate more on the production of plastics than on caustic soda. Is he aware that it is estimated that Redcliff would benefit Australia's balance of payments by an estimated $2,000m over the first ten years of its operation? Will these factors be taken into consideration if the Government does have any influence whatsoever where a petrochemical industry will be established? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it a fact that on 5 February this year the Trade Practices Commission released a draft determination on the newsagency system in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory? Are reports correct that the draft determination would no longer give newsagents the sole right to sell and distribute newspapers, magazines, et cetera, and that businesses such as supermarkets could move into the field? As the determination could also have a flow-on effect in the other States, I ask: If these reports are correct, and as the Government is making every endeavour to encourage the development of small business in Australia, what steps will it take to make sure that newsagents have some protection against big business which, in itself, could virtually create a monopoly situation adversely affecting the viability of many small newsagency businesses and even leading to the destruction of many of them? 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment seen reports about a cerium filter which has been developed by the vast Belgian firm known as the FN Group? It is claimed that when the filter is fitted to a car it can increase by at least 20 per cent the distance travelled on a litre of petrol, by converting water vapour into hydrogen and oxygen to assist in the combustion of the petrol vapour. As many well known car manufacturers are reported to be negotiating for the rights to use this cerium filter on their cars, will the Minister make inquiries to find what the facts are? If the filter is as effective as is claimed, will he endeavour to have it used in Australia not only to cut down the costs of motorists but also to assist in the conservation of fuel and to reduce vehicle emission pollution? 
Again today we have listened to an urgency motion moved by the Opposition. Early in the session one wondered at the lack of substance of its motions. As this pattern has continued, virtually all that we have had has been an indication from the Opposition that it is probing to find anything of real value, a real issue, on which to move an urgency motion. The Opposition is very short of issues. The history of this Government clearly shows that, despite all the crises and ills following Budgets of the Labor Government and the actions of some people, from the time it came to power its fiscal policies and budgetary measures have been working. 
Today in the Press some economists are reported as saying that we are going through the beginning of quite a boom and that this is going to create inflationary problems for the Government. What a change from what we were hearing from the Opposition as recently as three months ago. Economists today are standing up to say that government policies are working. So, is it any wonder that we find the Opposition moving urgency motions such as the one that has been moved today. One could go on to give examples of how well the economy is going but I will not do that today. In referring to the urgency motion itself, I suggest to the Opposition that perhaps it should have given its action more thought before it moved such a motion. What the Opposition has tried to say is that this Government in many ways is faced with problems of disunity; it has a leader who is both arrogant and uncommunicative. The Opposition has suggested that it has given the Government the opportunity to set out principles, standards and guidelines for Ministers to follow. 
This is strange coming from an Opposition with the record that it had in three years of government. I remind honourable senators of the many glaring examples of the actions of its former leader and the incompetence of its Ministers. At times far worse than plain incompetence was involved. Some issues were absolutely sensational. Yet, the Opposition has the audacity today to make suggestions to the Government as to what it should do. Perhaps if the Opposition had done its homework and looked to its memories a little more it would have seen the wisdom of avoiding the language in which the motion is couched today. One can refer to many Opposition members who resigned voluntarily from ministerial office. Others were forced out by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam. 
One recalls the 'C-sick days', as they were called, of the Connors, the Cairnses, the Creans, the Camerons and the Copes. We say the virtual political assassination of  Mr Speaker  Cope. The then Prime Minister encouraged Government members to cross the floor of the House of Representatives to destroy James Cope, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, at a time when  Mr Whitlam  could have shown some discretion, sympathy and respect for a man who commanded so much respect not only in the Parliament but throughout his parliamentary life. 
Continuing in this vein, we look to  Mr Clyde  Cameron- 'Iron Clyde'- a renowned figure in this place who eventually was shoved sideways by  Mr Whitlam. Mr Cameron  dug his heels in because of principle, carried on and was determined he was not going to resign, but, as  Mr Daly  pointed out in his book, by persuasion of his colleagues he did it. One can still remember a photo on the front page of newspapers showing Clyde Cameron leaving this place by vehicle to go to the Governor-General to hand in his resignation of his then portfolio. We look to men such as  Dr Cairns  who was an Acting Prime Minister during his period of office. We look to  Mr Connor  who was an Acting Prime Minister during his office. Both men were fired by the then Prime Minister.  Dr Cairns  goes down in history as the only Treasurer- probably in all time- who never presented a Budget to the Parliament. That was a tragedy for  Dr Cairns.  This was brought about possibly by some indiscretions but particularly by the arrogance and dictatorial attitude of the then Leader of the Labor Party Government at that time. 
On the subject of communication, I could go to the history of  Senator Murphy  who was the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He made that very foolish and sensational raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. However, that aspect has been dealt with by  Senator Carrick. 
I refer instead to a reliable authority, a man who would command the respect of many and most people in the Labor Party, Fred Daly, who in his book  From Curtin to Kerr  has quoted many things, one matter being the lack of communication. I refer to page 2 13 of his book where he says: 
In February 1975, Whitlam followed an almost identical path - 
Having referred to  Mr Justice  Kerr becoming Governor-General:  to appoint  Senator Murphy  to the High Court. He walked into Cabinet and announced it, all formalities were completed, there was no going back. 
Who is talking about dictatorial attitudes now? One of the Opposition's leading colleagues, the former Leader of the Government in the other place  Mr Fred  Daly said this. 
I refer to page 2 1 7 dealing with the scandals of the loans affair with the involvement of the Connors, the Cairns and the Whitlams. One can still remember the Khemlani days. At page 2 1 7,  Mr Daly  says: 
Whitlam made his Cabinet changes in the manner of a person killing an ant with a sledgehammer- no finesse, no tact, just ' crash through or crash '. 
He then goes on to make a very important point: 
Except for Whitlam, Cairns and Connor it would be news to me if more than one or two other Cabinet Ministers knew of the overseas loans manoeuvres. 
Yet the Opposition talks about lack of communication in the present Government. Here is one of the Opposition's colleagues making it perfectly clear that there was totally none. I refer to page 22 1 of the book where  Mr Daly  says: 
The negotiation of overseas loans was generally a matter for the Treasurer and the Treasury. Why this practice was departed from has never been satisfactorily explained. It created a sinister impression of 'funny money' from which the Opposition made great play. 
Again, this is very important, and I would like Opposition members to listen to this: 
The Executive Council meeting at the Lodge on 13 December 1974 was known only to the Ministers concerned. My first intimation of overseas loans was when Whitlam abruptly informed Fraser in answer to a question that the authority for the $4,000m overseas loan had been revoked. 
Is this an example of communication and leadership? We find that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  had not said a word about this proposed loan to anyone except one or two people within the Executive; it took a question from the Leader of the then Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to pull out in open Parliament a few facts about a loan which none of you fellows knew about. 
-Of course it is all history but it is a shining example of what the Opposition did not do when in office. Yet today it tries to lay accusations against the Government which has proven through its years in office what it can do through its Cabinet, its Government and party operations. These accusations are from members of a Party whose history is so bad that I can only say to them: People who live in glass houses should not throw stones. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="080232197903222_26_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080232197903222_26_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080232197903222_26_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put- 
That the motion  (Senator Wriedt's)  be agreed to. 
I take part in this debate on the motion for the first reading of the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill to deal with two matters, both of which relate directly to energy. The first matter which I consider to be of extreme importance, is the emission controls on motor vehicles. Already, stage 2 of Australian Design Rule 27A is operating and it has been estimated that this is costing Australian motorists between $200m and $ 100m per annum. It is very hard to work out what the figure is because of the various sizes of motor vehicles, the new vehicles coming on to the road and the fact that motorists living in certain areas are making sure that the emission controls on their vehicles do not work as well as they are supposed to. 
I am concerned not only about the introduction of stage 2 which already is costing the motorist some 8 per cent loss of efficiency but also about the discussions which took place a few weeks ago on the introduction of stage 3 of the Australian Design Rule. If stage 3 were introduced, another 5 per cent inefficiency loading would be placed on the Australian motorist. This represents purely the fuel running costs. It would mean the escalation of fuel consumption at a time when we are talking about energy and fuel conservation in this country. Fortunately, only two States- New South Wales and South Australia- want to go ahead with stage 3. The other States are quite happy, and wisely so, to defer stage 3. One can appreciate the pollution problem in Sydney and the need for New South Wales to give serious consideration to that pollution problem; but, on the grounds of conservation and fairness to other motorists throughout Australia, I question why the other States should be forced to move into line and go along with the wishes of New South Wales because of Sydney's pollution problem. I cannot see why all Australian motorists should have to pay the penalty for Sydney's pollution and I hope that New South Wales and South Australia will fall into line at the next meeting of the States and agree to the request of the other States to defer the introduction of stage 3 of the ADR. 
I have mentioned the cost in dollars and cents to the motorist caused by higher fuel consumption, but there are other hidden costs which will come in with stage 3. Stage 3 will result in a leaner burn and many other things in the combustion process. From what I can gather from various discussions, the motorist will be loaded with further costs because stage 3 will have an effect on the efficiency of the motor itself and will result in such things as crystallisation of the engine head and valve distortion and warping. It will have many other effects. So I suggest that, if New South Wales and South Australia are not prepared to go along with the other States and want to press ahead with stage 3, the other States along with the motor industry should agree that the parts required for stage 3 of emission controls be supplied in those two States as optional extras. This would alleviate any added costs to the other States through the purchase of such parts and the costs which result from the inefficiency which will be brought about by stage 3. I hope that serious consideration will be given to this suggestion. I know that it could create problems because New South Wales might say: 'OK; we will not allow cars over the border unless they are fitted with stage 3 emission controls'. No doubt these problems can be overcome because such things as interstate trade would then come into it. 
I think also that the hip pocket nerve of the motorists in New South Wales and South Australia might soon change the mind of the governments in those States and that those governments might then see the wisdom of and the need for conservation and the deferment of stage 3 and agree to look at it again in one or two years time. Another suggestion is that because of the pollution problem in Sydney the New South Wales Government could push ahead more rapidly with the indroduction of the use of liquid pertroleum gas in motor vehicles. This is a pollution-free fuel. It is also extremely efficient. It is cheaper than petrol; but, of course, there is the cost of the component parts required to adapt a motor to run on LPG. I hasten to add that, even though a motor car is adapted to run on LPG, all one has to do is throw a tap and one can go back to running on petrol. It is not a case of running out of LPG and having to walk home or take fittings off to convert back to petrol use. This is another alternative for NSW, and particularly the Sydney area. If their vehicles operated on LPG the little extra pollution that would be caused by cars coming in from the country areas of New South Wales would not add very much to the pollution level of Sydney. It is really the Sydney motor cars that create the pollution problem in the city of Sydney. 
I hope that the New South Wales Government will give serious consideration to giving some assistance to motorists to convert to LPG as a pollution control measure. I would like to see the Federal Government give further encouragement to the introduction of LPG from a fuel conservation point of view and encourage motorists to convert their motor vehicles by making the component parts free of sales tax. This would be some incentive to the motorist who wishes to convert to LPG. I understand that it costs about $400 or $500 for the parts to convert a motor car engine. No doubt, as more cars are converted the cost of conversion will become cheaper. Nevertheless, I would like to see further incentives given by the Federal Government to motorists to convert to LPG. I hope that New South Wales and South Australia will give serious consideration to deferring stages 3 and will fall into line with the wishes of the other States. I do not see why the motorists of Australia should be penalised by the pollution problem in only one city in this Commonwealth. 
Liquid petroleum gas is being exported, but there would still be enough available if we were able to overcome the problems of distribution so that more LPG could be used in Australia, particularly in the cities of Melbourne and Sydney. Honourable senators will be aware that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has already made a statement on that matter, to encourage more distribution points in Melbourne and Sydney. He introduced a pricing policy late last year to encourage the further use of LPG and I commend the Minister and the Government on their moves in this direction. 
In the past there has been no market in Australia for surplus LPG. This was one of the reasons why it had to be used elsewhere. It is impossible to go on storing it. One could develop this argument in relation to Redcliff and the Cooper Basin, but I shall keep that for another debate. 
I turn now to crude oil pricing and the introduction of import parity prices. The other night an honourable senator from South Australia saw fit not only to criticise the Government but also to condemn the Government for introducing the policy of import parity. I commend the Government for introducing such a policy because- and I will repeat some of the figures that I have already given in this chamber- it is estimated that by 1985, at current fuel consumption levels and if we do not find any more crude oil, our reserves of indigenous crude oil will be down to 35 per cent of our requirements. 
But of course it is only common logic that every barrel used has to be replaced by either imported or indigenous crude oil. We cannot use more indigenous crude unless we find more. Naturally we will pay a higher price for imported crude. So it is far better for the Government to encourage exploration than just to sit back and import crude oil at a much dearer price, with a consequent adverse effect on our balance of payments. 
It has been estimated that if the Government's import parity policy had not led to the discovery of more crude oil reserves our import bill could have been as high as $4,000m per annum by 1985. But the Government has introduced import parity for six million barrels a field or 20 per cent of the production of a field, whichever is the greater. Of course, the proportion that may be sold at import parity prices will be adjusted up to 50 per cent by 1980. The import price too is adjusted every six months. 
The import parity policy made the Australian motorist and the Australian public generally conscious of the need for conservation of a rapidly depleting resource in this country. In the past Australia had cheap petrol. In fact we were one of the cheapest countries in the world. I will give just a few figures. A couple of years ago Australian petrol was about 2 1 .6c a litre. The price in the United States was 1 5c a litre, in Sweden 30c, in Spain 32c, in West Germany 34c, in Austria 35c, in Switzerland 36c, in Denmark 37c, in the Netherlands 38.9c, in France 40c and in Italy 48c. The latest figures I have been able to obtain, which relate to prices as at August 1978, are very similar to those I have given. Australian motorists were lucky in some ways to have had very cheap petrol. But Australia was unlucky in other ways. Firstly, previous crude oil policies did not encourage conservation of a very scarce and depleting resource. Secondly, they did not encourage exploration. It is interesting to note that our petrol consumption stands at something like 8.7 million gallons a day. Because of high consumption Australia's Bass Strait reserves were depleted to one-third. 
The import parity policy also led to the discovery of more Australian crude oil reserves. In fact, it has been estimated that reserves have increased sufficiently to supply demand for a further two years. On previous prices many pools of oil were too small to exploit but with the increase in price they became commercial propositions and can now be regarded as part of our total reserves. The costs of producing oil are very great. One could not expect oil companies to lose millions of dollars in the search for oil. The increased price for crude oil has made more fields commercial. This has had a beneficial effect on our reserves. 
Since the introduction of the import parity policy more oil has been found in Bass Strait. The companies have had the incentive to search further and they have found more fields, some of which would not have been commercial at the old price. The increased price for crude oil has encouraged companies to explore and has made more pools commercial. Reserves in the Bass Strait have increased by some 600 million barrels. Instead of an import bill of $4,000m by 1985 we will have a bill of something like $2,000m at current prices. We all know what is happening to overseas prices at present. They are heading frighteningly in the wrong direction. 
It is interesting to note that this year has brought a great increase in exploration. In 1 972 there were some 101 completed oil wells in Australia. In 1973 there were 69; in 1974, 54; in 1975, 23; in 1976, 21; and in 1977, 21. For honourable senators opposite, who are critical of the import parity pricing, I repeat that from 1972, when the Whitlam Government came to power, some 101 wells had been completed. In 1975, the year it went out of office, 23 were completed. That lag carried on for a couple of years. In 1 976 and 1977 only 2 1 were completed. There was then a change in policy and 1978 saw 52 wells completed. It is estimated that this year between 83 and 1 40 wells could be drilled. 

 - Senator O'Byrne says the price has gone up 400 per cent. I remind him that if we had not found oil in the first place we would be importing all our oil and paying what the overseas countries want us to pay for it. If the Australian Labor Party had continued in Government with its attitude there would have been an end to exploration in this country because the Labor Government drove exploration companies out of the country. We would have been down to 25 per cent or 30 per cent selfsufficiency. We would have been importing the rest, and paying higher prices to overseas countries. So let us get away from this garbage about multinationals that Opposition senators have been talking about. The tragedy is that the previous Government drove exploration interests out of this country. It is a tragedy because exploration does not produce oil overnight. If a driller is lucky enough to find oil overnight there is a lead time of as much as five or six years before such oil can be put on stream. This country could not afford to wait for five or six years, but the Labor Party drove exploration companies out of the country. 
It is very interesting to note that on the North West Shelf, on the plateau of the north-west of Western Australia, no drilling was taking place. In fact, a drilling rig built in Western Australia sat in Fremantle idle although not rusting for two years because it could not be operated. Companies were not prepared to explore in the off-shore regions. Today that rig is in operation but today also companies are moving out to the North West Plateau and are breaking into new fields there. They are drilling to 2,000 feet and deeper. This was not technologically possible three years ago. 
-A lot of drilling has been done on the North West Shelf. I am referring to the North West Plateau. The exploration companies have now come back to Australia. They are prepared to get out on this plateau 200 kilometres off-shore. There are 10 deep drilling off-shore rigs in the world. Three of those rigs will be on the North West Plateau on the Australian Continental Shelf. I give credit to the Government for giving encouragement and incentive to the companies to get out and explore, and credit to the companies for taking that risk. It is estimated that between now and 1 983 some 90 wells will be drilled with a minimum expenditure of $400m. It is estimated that on the plateau alone drilling costs could be as high as $ 1 Om for each well, wet or dry. 
In Australia the average rate of success has been in the ratio of one find for every 30 holes drilled. This is not as good as overseas. The area where these companies will be drilling has not been explored in the past and so it is an expensive risk venture. One can only commend the companies for being prepared to do this drilling. It is estimated that Australia will need to find one billion barrels of oil in the next five years. If we are fortunate enough to find oil it will be because the oil companies have been prepared to risk their capital and look for the oil. There will be a long lead time before oil can come on stream and this could cost as much as $3 billion. I am talking big money. If these companies are lucky enough to find crude oil after risking so much capital not only in exploration but also in development where there are great commercial risks, oil which will be a great asset to Australia, I trust that the Opposition will not have the temerity to stand up in the Senate and condemn these companies for showing a profit. The Opposition should not look only at the oil companies' gross profits but should look also at the lead times before there is any profit. 
A company may spend years in exploration and if it finds oil the on-stream lead time and break even point could be many years. There could be a lead time of 10 or 12 years from the beginning of exploration to the break even point. If this is related to the interest factor, the companies deserve to show some profit; but if we were to adopt the Labor Party's past and present philosophy, companies would not risk their capital endeavouring to find what we hope will be a great asset for Australia. 
I refer to comparative costs between Australia and the United States and note that, probably because of the remoteness of the areas in which drilling has taken place in Australia- which adds to the costs and risks- compared with the United States, on-shore in Australia in 1975 the cost of drilling per metre was some $609 whereas in America the cost per metre was $274. In 1975 the off-shore drilling figure per metre in Australia was $1015 whereas in America the figure was $305. Companies have been drilling recently in north west Australia. Because drilling in that area is so expensive, that figure of $1015 will escalate greatly. I mention those figures because profit is a dirty word to the Opposition. I hope that success comes to the exploration companies which the Opposition condemns. 
It is necessary for Australia to search for crude oil. To encourage this it was necessary for the Government to introduce a crude oil parity price because we have no certainty of supplies for this country. 
We know what has happened in Iran over the last few months and we have heard of the present Iranian Government's attitude to oil where oil production has virtually stopped. Iran is unable to meet its stated production figure and it will be sometime before it can do so. Consequently there will be a shortage of crude oil. Because of this Japan has been buying on the spot market and has been paying a 50 per cent premium to get crude oil supplies. Even though there will be this gap in supplies of crude oil for a long time, the Iranian Government has said that it will put its oil on the auction market at a reserve price of approximately $20 per barrel. The current overseas price for crude oil is approximately $13.40 per barrel. This is a great rise, especially when one realises that Iran was exporting something like 10 per cent of the world's supply of crude oil. This must have an effect on the gap that I mentioned and a price effect upon crude oil generally as no doubt there will be a flow-on effect to some of the countries within the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries with possible increases in the price of oil. Because of this there is a great need for Australia to find oil, for security by achieving independence, to ensure supplies and to assist with our balance of payments problems. 
The only choice for the Government was to encourage exploration and to increase the value of crude oil so that finds which at present are not commercially viable could become profitable and, through exploration, Australia could increase its reserves of indigenous oil. This option has meant that petrol has become dearer. The idea behind the Government's incentive to oil companies to find crude oil was to reduce the gap between the depletion of our crude oil supplies, thus forcing us to import oil and to be at the mercy of overseas suppliers, and the time when new discoveries would come on-stream. The Government's choice was far wiser in that we reap the benefits rather than remain at the mercy of other countries through having to obtain a majority of our supplies from overseas, with the consequent problems with our balance of payments in paying for that imported crude oil. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does not the uncertainty of Australia's overseas crude oil supplies, as reported in today's Press, add further weight to the argument that a further petrochemical plant in Australia should be built at Redcliff in South Australia as it will be supplied with locally produced feedstocks and not be dependent upon a large percentage of imported feedstocks, as would be the case with the other proposed plants? Also, as it has been shown already that the Redcliff plant would save Australia some $2, 000m over the first ten years of its operation in terms of balance of payments by not using overseas hydrocarbons for feedstock, will not the big foreshadowed increase in overseas crude oil prices add significantly to this already huge figure? As these are two most important factors, coupled with many other benefits of Redcliff- 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports that the United States Senate's Foreign Relations Committee has supported the sending of a United States observer team to Rhodesia for the elections of 20 April? Has he also seen reports that  Sir Harold  Wilson, the former British Prime Minister, stated in an international television interview that Britain and the United States should recognise the new government in Rhodesia following the elections, provided they are satisfied that the result reflects the wishes of the majority of black and white Rhodesians, and that Britain and the United States should send official observers to the elections? What is Australia's attitude to these suggestions and comments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the average monthly cost in 1 977 of operating theatres in South Australian hospitals under Commonwealth-State shared funding arrangements. 
What were the operating theatre costs in July and August 1978. 
How many operations were performed in each month from July 1977 to June 1978. 
How many operations were performed in July and August 1978. 
What were the total hospital costs in each month from July 1977 to August 1978. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen reports that the minimum gift to a charitable organisation eligible to be a tax deduction may be raised from $2 to $50? Is the Minister aware that many charitable organisations have large numbers of members who pay subscriptions far less than $50 and that many organisations are concerned that such a decision could adversely affect both membership and fund raising of charitable organisations? Can the Minister clarify the situation? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: With the reduction in world crude oil supplies and in particular the cut-back for Australia, which has resulted in a greater need for conservation of our petrol supplies, will the Government give the strongest support to those States opposing the introduction of stage 3 of emission control, which at present is supported only by the States of New South Wales and 
South Australia and which, if introduced, would increase fuel consumption in motor vehicles by at least 5 per cent, causing a scandalous waste of a very scarce energy source? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing both the Minister for Trade and Resources and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Minister of Transport today blamed the Federal Government for the road transport strike, stating that such a strike would not have taken place if the Federal Government had introduced a fuel tax? Would not a fuel tax increase fuel prices? If so, how does  Mr Virgo's  statement align itself with the Australian Labor Party which has said consistently that fuel prices in Australia are too high already? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the recent elections in Rhodesia where a 64 per cent turnout in a free vote gave Bishop Muzorewa a majority in the new multi-racial Parliament. I ask the Minister: What steps will Australia take to support the new majority party and to encourage the peaceful development of a multi-racial society in Rhodesia? Furthermore, will Australia do all it can to discourage further guerrilla warfare with its consequent bloodshed and tragedy in Rhodesia? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the 20 South Australian doctors involved in a dispute over the payment of registration fees. In view of the threats made by the South Australian Government to have the Commonwealth Government refuse to make medical benefits available to the patients of these doctors, will the Federal Government undertake to have negotiations on this matter, including negotiations with the doctors concerned, before any Federal Government action is taken? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport following the recent meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council where stage 3 of the 
Australian design rule concerning emission controls was discussed. Can the Minister say whether all States submitted figures on air pollution levels for their respective capital cities. If not, which States failed to submit figures? What were the levels of air pollution in the respective cities for which figures were submitted? 
Has the Minister for Science and the Environment, received any progress reports on the research and development of SYNROC being conducted by Professor Ringwood of the Australian National University? As many people, including eminent scientists throughout the world, are very interested in SYNROC which is regarded as an extremely stable form of nuclear waste, will the Minister have discussions with Professor Ringwood to ascertain what funds are required to continue effectively this very important area of research and development? 
I present the following pet ition from 2 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
Tothe Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost ofgoods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. 1 refer to the recent meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council at which Ministers for Transport, including the Federal Minister for Transport, were present. Do South Australia and New South Wales still refuse to accept the majority decision of the other States which were prepared to defer stage three of Australian Design Rule emission control? If so, can the Minister say what were the figures presented by the States at that conference with regard to levels of pollution within the air of the various cities in the States? If the South Australian Government did submit figures, what were they? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 I present a report relating to the following proposed work: 
Research Laboratory Complex for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Division of Chemical Technology at Clayton, Victoria. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he has seen reports that the International Energy Agency has urged all countries to reduce crude oil consumption to avoid an impending further world oil shortage. Has he seen reports that Algeria has raised the price of its crude oil by $2.45, or 13 per cent, to $21 a barrel, and that members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries may soon follow suit? In the light of these two important factors I ask whether the Minister will have further discussions with the States of South Australia and New South Wales in an endeavour to see whether they will change their minds on the introduction of stage 3 of Australian Design Rule 27A, which the other States have agreed to defer. If South Australia and New South Wales do not defer its introduction and we have to implement stage 3, it will not only cost the Australian Government and Australian motorists many millions of dollars, but also involve the wastage of hundreds of millions of gallons of crude oil. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he is aware that the price of market crude in the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries group on which the Australian import parity price is based rose by $ 1.2 1 to $14.50 in April this year? Is the Minister also aware that surcharges of up to $2.50 have been applied by some oil producing countries which could have a big influence on further OPEC price increases? As these big price rises could increase Australian import parity prices in excess of $2 a barrel and as from 1 July the volume of Australian crude to which import parity will apply will increase from 20 per cent to 35 per cent of production, will the Government give serious consideration to increasing the current $3 levy a barrel which would add greatly to general revenue and offset some of the unexpected extra profits of oil producers resulting from the greatly escalating price of overseas crude oil? 
Some weeks ago I watched a television program in which the Australian Atomic Energy Commission establishment at Lucas Heights was discussed. During an interview an employee at the establishment made certain statements, such as 'Risks are greater than expected' and 'Some equipment is not up to standard and perhaps some of this is due to shortage of maintenance staff'. The implication was, of course, that there were dangers with regard to the overall maintenance at Lucas Heights. I was particularly concerned not only about what was said by this employee but also about the fact that the television station did not see fit to ask someone else from Lucas Heights to put a counter comment. I took this matter up during the sittings of Senate Estimates Committee F. I posed questions to representatives of the Atomic Energy Commission who gave evidence to the Committee. 
I wish to quote for the  Hansard  record a written reply by  Dr Miles  to a question asked during the Committee hearings. I only wish that I could go further than just reading the reply into  Hansard.  I wish that the people who watched that television program could hear the answers given by  Dr Miles,  who is one of the most senior and most responsible people in the Atomic Energy Commission. The employee interviewed on the television program created the impression that there were dangers because of the lack of maintenance. He said that there were problems of safety.  Dr Miles  refuted all this. He asked for permission to give a written answer. I accepted his request because this meant that, rather than give an answer off the top of his head, he had time to sit down and coolly give a factual answer to the Australian Senate. In his answer he stated: 
The Commission gives first priority - 
I emphasise the words 'first priority'-  to operational safety which includes maintaining at the Research Establishment the highest possible standard of surveillance of all environmental and working conditions which could affect the health and safety of Commission employees. The monitoring for radiation protection is one aspect of this surveillance. 
I quote again the words: 'The monitoring for radiation protection is one aspect of this surveillance '. He went on to say: 
The Commission does not know of any other organisation in Australia where the standard of surveillance is higher or where the proportion of staff devoted to surveillance of working conditions is higher. 
In relation to the monitoring equipment used, there has sometimes been difficulty in obtaining some spare parts for older equipment, but this has not compromised safely standards. 
Again I think this should be emphasised.  Dr Miles,  after making all those comments, emphasised that 'this has not compromised safety standards '. He went on to say: 
Substitute equipment is supplied when necessary and the Commission will not proceed with specific operations until safety standards are met and safety checks on staff carried out. The Commission has a continuing program of updating and replacement of older equipment. 
We know of the publicity that followed the Harrisburg incident. We know about the big headlines that appeared in the Press not for one day but for days and weeks. We also know of the genuine concern expressed by people. We know of the emotional and political concern and criticism that are expressed on the subject of atomic energy throughout the world. A television station that should be accepting its responsibilities and putting both sides of the argument saw fit to give one side and to ignore some of the most responsible men in Australia who could have put a counter argument not so much about whether Lucas Heights is good, bad or indifferent, but rather about how atomic energy affects the community generally. This is something that concerns me greatly. Two weeks ago I saw another  Four Corners  program. I know that  Senator Georges  has taken a very keen interest in mining in northern Queensland and northern Australia. On the program I saw an item with regard to mining at Weipa. This was one of the most disgraceful, biased and bigoted programs I have seen. It was not produced by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It was produced by the Granada Company. No doubt the program was shown in the United Kingdom and in other places. The sheer bias and hypocrisy of the program had to be seen to be believed. It was one of the most disgraceful programs I have ever seen because of its total bias and because no opportunity was given for the other side to put its case. There was no balance. 
I am not going into the detail of that program tonight because, by good fortune,  Mr Karl  Stewart, the manager of the mining company at Weipa, had the courage to challenge the presentation of the Granada production. In fairness to the ABC let me emphasise that it did the right thing and invited  Mr Stewart  to appear on the program. In five minutes, which was about all the time he had, he refuted entirely much of the biased presentation. What concerns me is that an overseas company showed overseas a production which was presented as a factual representation of conditions in Australia. I only wish that the ABC could have taken a few photographs to back the comments made by  Mr Karl  Stewart. With all due respect to the ABC, I am glad that it saw fit at least to allow  Mr Karl  Stewart to appear on the program. I repeat: It was one of the most disgraceful and biased programs that I have ever seen. I hope that it will never be presented again. 
Much of what was said in the program may have been factual, but there are two sides to every argument. When one wishes to look at the housing on an Aboriginal settlement one does not take photographs of the back doors of some of the houses or of the oldest houses on the settlements. Nor does one point the finger at a certain company and say that it built the houses. To give one example as  Mr Stewart  pointed out, the company gave the money and the Presbyterian Church built the houses. The Granada production did not show the bitumen roads in the township or the reafforestation with exotictimber that has taken place. 
Yes. I have been there many times. I have seen the burnt out forests where there is now reafforestation. The company is spending thousands of dollars per hectare to reafforest that country with exotic timber. The company is doing this not for tomorrow or for next year but for years to come so that the Aborigines will have an opportunity to move in and produce teak timber from the forests which have been planted. One cannot accept the bias of such a program. I had to mention that in the Senate tonight. 
One of the other things that concerns me greatly is the situation of the River Murray. 1 do not mean that in geographical or physical terms. I refer to the fact that the River Murray serves three States in Australia- New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia- the latter being at the end of the major river system in Australia. In 1915 the River Murray Waters Agreement was established by those three States and the Commonwealth, but since 1915 no amendments have been made to the River Murray Waters Agreement via the River Murray Commission. During the whole of that period the Commission has dealt entirely with water quantity. One can appreciate that with the establishment of the States and the development of agriculture and industry there was a need to make sure that there would be a proportionate sharing of the waters from the River Murray. But as time has passed water quantity has not been the only problem with regard to the River Murray system. There has also been the problem of water quality. With the development of irrigation for agriculture have come problems of pollution, particularly salinity, in the River Murray system. Whilst South Australia is the most adversely affected of any State, it is not the only State that is affected. We find also that Victoria is affected by serious problems of salinity, particularly when the river does not get the opportunity to flush, which happens so often in dry years. At present amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement via the River Murray Commisison are under discussion. I wish to quote from page 124 of the  Hansard  record of the proceedings of Estimates Committee F on 3 May 1979. In relation to the agreement and in answer to a question from me,  Mr Manderson,  who is from the Department of National Development and who specialises in water resources, stated: 
In lay terms, it is to undertake water quality monitoring activities, to undertake the investigation of water quality in the mam stem and, with the consent of the State concerned, any of its tributaries, to co-ordinate the development of standards or objectives for river water quality, to contribute to the cost of remedial or preventative works relative to water quality, and to make recommendations or representations to the States in relation to the quality of flows to the river from tributaries. 
That last bit is very important because what he is saying virtually is that whilst the River Murray Commission can make recommendations or representations, it has to make them to a State. Most people do not realise that the Commission itself cannot make recommendations or representations, be they on quality or- under the proposed amendments- on quality, unless there is unanimity amongst the four partners of the River Murray Commission. The four partners are the governments of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and the Federal Government. 
It is a farcical situation. We are now proposing amendments to catch up with a problem that has been in existence for far too long- the quality of the waters of the River Murray, which is the major river system in Australia in that it serves such a vast area and covers three States. We are talking about amendments to enable the Commission to do something about the quality of water as well as the quantity of water. Yet that Commission cannot move unless the four partners are unanimous in their decision to move. In the past, particularly in South Australia, we have been concerned about the quantity of water and, particularly in the last few years, about the quality of water, primarily because of the development of agriculture as a result of the irrigation for citrus and general horticulture that the waters of the River Murray can assist in providing for New South Wales and particularly Victoria and South Australia. 
But now there are proposals for the establishment of a paper works at Albury, which is right at the beginning of the river system. We all know what paper mills are like. I refer to the history of paper mills in the south east of South Australia. There are two lakes in South Australia called Lake Bonney. One of them is related directly to the River Murray system. The other Lake Bonney is in the south east of South Australia and has been virtually killed by pollution from paper or pulp works. We know the dangers of a paper works. Yet we now have a farcical situation because, although one assumes that this proposal will go ahead, the Commission will still be powerless to act unless there is a unanimous decision by its four commissioners. Without unanimity, it is like a toothless tiger. I wish to quote again from the testimony of  Mr Manderson  in answer to a further question asked by me, as recorded at page 125 of the same  Hansard  report.  Mr Manderson  said, with reference to the effluent from the proposed paper mill:   . . following the receipt of public comment, it does appear that if the effluent standards envisaged are adhered to the operations of the pulp mill will have significant adverse effect on water quality. 
One accepts that as a fact of life; it is what one would expect from a paper mill. On further inquiry we find that the effluent is to go into holding dams. But there is a limit to the amount that such a dam can hold; so the time must come when some of the effluent must be discharged into a river system somewhere. It will be discharged into a stream which will then flow into the main trunk of the River Murray system. 
The River Murray Commission has no control whatsoever over the release of effluent into a stream that feeds into the main trunk. Thus, as I understand it, the Commission is powerless to do anything about it. The State of New South Wales has control over what flows into its streams. Therefore, if the Commission finds that the effluent is having an adverse effect on, and is polluting, the river system- as no doubt it will- it can merely take up the matter with the State concerned. It must first meet and decide to lay the blame upon the State responsible. It can either recommend or make representations to the State responsible which, in this case, would be New South Wales. We would have the responsible State Minister himself sitting on the Commission. He would be asked to sit in judgment on himself, to agree to criticise himself and his own State because of the quality of the water that was being fed into the main trunk of the River Murray system. This is a farcical situation. To me, it is dangerous as well. 
I can only say that we, as a Commonwealth, must support the other States, particularly Victoria and South Australia, which are the sinks of the River Murray system. Those States receive the dregs and I would hope that we would not add further to those dregs in the form of the effluents of a pulp mill. History has shown that pulp mills cause pollution. It has yet to be proven otherwise. I hope that in this case the story will be different. However, I am not prepared to accept without protest the dangers inherent in this situation. Apparently we are to ask a Minister or his representative in the offending State to sit in judgment upon himself, to condemn himself and then to refer that condemnation for the effects of polluting the river system to the State authority concerned. The Federal Government has had a fair bit to do with decentralisation in 
Albury. I hope that it will see fit, firstly, to change the site of the pulp mill and place it upstream of Albury. Then, if there is any effluent it will flow down the river past Albury and the people in that city will get a little taste of the problem themselves. It will make them more aware of it. I do not think that they want to harm other people, but there is nothing like being made aware of a problem. 
More importantly, I hope that the Federal Government will take up the matter and support the States of South Australia and Victoria in their wish to remove this farcical aspect of requiring unanimity in decisions of the River Murray Commission and substitute instead a majority vote on major policy decisions. This could be of great importance to the various States, including my own State of South Australia, and Victoria. Pollution should not be allowed to continue. We are spending a great deal of money to combat salinity.  Mr President,  no one knows that better than yourself. In the past we have seen the destruction of much country and many valuable orchards. We are hopeful that these risks can be overcome by research presently being done on pollution. Let us make sure that we remove the cause and not wait until we have complaints. We should not end up trying to overcome the problems of further man-made pollution which could be avoided if the River Murray Commission were given the power to ensure that the pollution did not exist in the first place. 
I hope that the Government will take note of this important matter, one that is not only a cause for concern but also a source of great danger to very many people who border the Murray River, in particular in the States of South Australia and Victoria. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the deregistration of certain doctors in South Australia by the Medical Board of South Australia for not paying their annual practising fee. Is it a fact that some patients lost their entitlements to Commonwealth benefits during the period in which their doctors were deregistered? If this is so, will the Minister reconsider the situation of these patients who can be regarded only as innocent victims who were totally unaware that their doctors were deregistered during that period? 
I  present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to a meeting held yesterday between the State governments and the Commonwealth Government at which discussions took place on the feasibility of establishing a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. I ask the Minister: Firstly, were all State governments invited to attend that meeting? Secondly, were representatives of all the States present at that meeting to discuss the establishment of an enrichment plant in Australia? 

 - Mr President, I direct my question to you. You may recall that on previous occasions I have suggested the striking of a parliamentary badge for senators and members of the House of Representatives, for both identification and security reasons, as is the practice in many parliaments overseas. Having taken up this matter, have you any further information that you can give to the Senate? 
The PRESIDEN T- This matter has been the subject of investigation by  Mr Speaker  and me. At this point we have come to no firm decision on the matter. 
This afternoon we are dealing with amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. As the Government pointed out in August 1978, there is a need for the Commonwealth to share a proportion of the cost in developing the Ranger uranium deposits to which  Senator Tate  has referred this afternoon and that these funds would be raised by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission through borrowings. In the second reading speech the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  said:  . . the purpose of this Bill is to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow monies from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and to give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings other than from the Commonwealth, to enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment by the Commission of monies- borrowed other than from the Commonwealth- and to provide that where securities are issued by the Commonwealth, repayment is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 
He went on to say: 
On 25 August 1977, the Government announced its policy . . . 
It is again repeating that policy-  . . that development of the Ranger uranium deposit would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd. 
I think it is very important that we take note of the paragraph to which I have just referred in the Minister's second reading speech. It is not a case of history repeating itself, it is a case of continuing with the foundation that was laid by the Whitlam Government in the Memorandum of Understanding between the companies concerned in the Ranger agreements and the Whitlam Government as the government of the day. Also, because of many of these things, amendments to the Atomic Energy Act are necessary. We are dealing with certain existing provisions in section 27 that will have to be amended. If we go through the Minister's second reading speech we will see that there are other sections which need to be amended. The main thrust of the Opposition's argument so far today has been that it is opposed to the Atomic Energy Commission's having itself involved in any way in commercial dealings. In  Hansard  of 9 May of the House of Representatives at page 2023  Mr Paul  Keating, the shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Labor Party, had this to say: 
We have now a silly situation in which, under the Ranger uranium consortium arrangement, the Government has the Atomic Energy Commission out seeking markets for its half of Ranger's production. It is almost unbelievable that, the Ranger uranium consortium having been entered into with the Peko-Ez Companies, the Government rather than the consortium is to seek a market for its share of the produce and the companies will do the same for the rest. 
As I understand the Labor Party policy, 'for the rest' means other minerals. Having quoted  Mr Paul  Keating I now wish to refer to the Memorandum of Understanding which incidentally, as I mentioned before, was between the Whitlam Government and the companies concerned in the Ranger consortium. The agreement was reached, as I understand, on 28 October 1975, which is an important date to remember. Under the heading of 'SALES ' clause 7(a) states: 
All future sales of uranium concentrate produced by the Ranger Project shall be effected by the Commission as agent for Australia. 
Further on in that clause it states: 
Prior to the decision to commence construction of the project, the Commission shall use its best endeavours to sell sufficient uranium concentrate output of the project to facilitate appropriate financing arrangements . . . 
Today we have heard two criticisms: Firstly, that the Commission should not be involved in any commercial aspect; and secondly, that commercial aspects should be used to facilitate the establishment of the uranium mine at Ranger. Yet it is set out in the agreement between the Whitlam Government and the companies concerned that that should occur. 
It is all very well to say that they learned but what this Government is doing is continuing on the basis of an agreement that was reached between the two companies I mentioned earlier and the Commission- the partner on behalf of the Australian Government. It is interesting that in clause 7 (b) of the Memorandum of Understanding is this statement: 
All mineral products, other than uranium concentrate produced at the treatment plant, shall be sold by Peko and EZ on behalf of the joint venturers. 
In other words, it is spelt out very clearly and concisely that the Atomic Energy Commission will be sole agent for the selling of uranium but that the other two partners, the two companies, could sell other minerals. I think it is very important to remind people of that. Perhaps one could go further and refer to the Twenty-third Annual Report of 1 974-75 for the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It deals with the Commission's operations for the financial year ending 30 June 1975; it deals with half of 1974 and half of 1975. On page 39 of that report under the heading 'Marketing of Uranium ' it states: 
The Australian Government has appointed the Commission . . . 
The Australian Government at that time was the Whitlam Government-  its agent for future sales of uranium from all sources in Australia. 
It was not appointed as agent just for Ranger, but for all sources in Australia. We have heard criticism today because the Commission is to be an agent for Ranger. The report goes on to say: 
Commitments for deliveries under the existing contracts held by the Ranger participants (Peko-Electrolytic Zinc) and by Queensland Mines Ltd will be met by the companies firstly by negotiated deliveries from the stockpile of uranium presently held by the Commission, . . . 
I emphasise the words 'held by the Commission'- 
. and later by production from the Ranger plant. 
I remind the Senate again that this is the report of the Atomic Energy Commission dealing with the year 1974-75 when the Whitlam Government was in power and the Commission was working under the policies of the Whitlam Government. The report goes on further to say under the same heading: 
The Commission is developing a marketing strategy, including the definition of available markets and pricing and contract conditions, for the output of Australian plants and for the logical growth of such facilities. 
What a change around in what we are hearing at the present time from the Labor Party from what we heard when it was in government. In all fairness to  Senator Tate,  we have previously heard the Labor Party argue on other aspects of mining, not just the Atomic Energy Act, but other aspects. The reason behind all this is that the Australian Labor Party's policy- not of all its parliamentarians, let me make that clear- is to oppose all mining in Australia. It is using this Bill as a means of criticising the Government for what it is doing today. Another point of great interest when considering the Labor Party's attitude towards uranium mining is another statement by  Mr Keating.  It appears in the same  Hansard,  that of Wednesday 9 May, at page 2025.  Mr Keating  said: 
Australia is a country with abundant reserves of coal and other fossil fuels and we are not in the position in which, unfortunately, some countries are of having a lack of reserves and resources and of having to take a decision to go to nuclear power. 
I repeat the words 'having to take a decision to go to nuclear power.' One wonders at times how many members of the Opposition are genuine in their attitude to the mining and export of uranium.  Mr Keating  has made it clear that he accepts that many countries require uranium because of the energy gap. 
-He made it clear in that statement that they will have to turn to atomic energy. If they are going to turn to atomic energy, then countries with uranium must supply that uranium. That is the point that I am making. I would also remind the Senate of the conclusions reached at the World Energy Conference held at Istanbul in 1977. There is not time to quote all of these, but I would like to quote one or two to the Senate. The first of its major recommendations reads: 
With the doubling of world population to 8 billion people, world energy demand is expected to grow by between 3 and 4 times despite the most rigorous measures to promote energy conservation and improved efficiency of use. 
The document then goes on to deal with other areas in which there is an energy crisis and a big energy gap. It states:   . . some more highly developed countries which are rich in other fuel resources, may be able to maintain their economies at an acceptable level. However, the great brunt of this lack will fall upon the high population, developing countries of the world, and the resultant effects on food production and industrial production will be chaotic. 
I want to emphasise the final conclusion. It states: 
No time can be lost in presenting this situation to the people of (he world and particularly to those groups who are delaying and preventing major programs of energy production at present, largely based upon wishful thinking that more acceptable programs might eventually emerge. 
The conclusions reached at this conference give much food for thought. I regret that the limitations of time today, towards the end of the session, do not allow me to read the whole of these conclusions to the chamber today. Therefore I ask for leave to incorporate them in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Summary of main conclusions at World Energy Conference, Istanbul, 1977. 
With the doubling of world population to 8 billion people, world energy demand is expected to grow by between 3 and 4 times despite the most rigorous measures to promote energy conservation and improved efficiency of use. 
The energy resources of the world are completely ample to support this growth in energy demand, at least over the next 50 years, and probably for another 100 years without having to depend upon non-conventional, renewable sources of energy. However, these resources are distributed very unevenly in the various countries, and thus there would need to be a tremendous increase in the international trade in fuels, particularly coal, which would have to increase by a factor of 1 0 over the period considered. 
Because of the declining oil resources and production towards the end of the century there will need to be a tremendous effort of substitution, particularly by means of coal and nuclear fuels. Coal demand is expected to grow by up to 6 times over the period. 
A most effective way of introducing substitute fuels into the energy economy is by their conversion to electricity, and electricity demand is expected to increase more than sixfold over the period. The rate of growth in electricity demand is expected to stay almost constant over the period despite a substantial fall-off in the overall growth in demand for energy on a worldwide basis. The projected increase in electricity demand cannot possibly be met without a major contribution from nuclear power including breeder reactor application. The share of electricity produced from nuclear fuels by the end of the century is expected to be almost 45 per cent and up to 60 per cent by the end of the period considered, 2020. 
Despite maximum efforts to promote, by research and development and other means, the development of alternative renewable energy sources, no hope is seen for such energy sources providing more than a minor contribution by the end of the period. Thus solar energy use will increase substantially to the point that at the end of the period considered it will provide as much useful energy as that provided by electricity at the present time, but this will only correspond to between 3 and 5 per cent of total primary energy by the year 2020. It is not seen to be possible for solar energy to provide any significant contribution to electricity needs, the energy provided from the solar source being in the form of low termperature heat, mainly used for space heating and water heating. 
The problems of developing nuclear power to the extent required by the projected needs are seen to be very substantial particularly in the area of gaining public confidence and political support for such programs. In the absence of such a large program of nuclear power development, some more highly developed countries which are rich in other fuel resources, may be able to maintain their economies at an acceptable level. However, the great brunt of this lack will fall upon the high population, developing countries of the world, and the resultant effects on food production and industrial production will be chaotic. 
There is a major interaction between the ability to sustain stable economic growth and the ability to supply the energy needs of the world. This situation is most clearly and crucially met in the problems of generating the enormous quantities of capital which will be needed to provide the new energy systems of the world and the international trade in energy sources. If major moves to solve the problem of energy substitution are delayed too long, so that they coincide with the period of steeply increasing oil prices and gas prices, it may not be possible to generate the enormous quantities of capital for these programs. Energy conservation programs undertaken immediately are also seen to be a vital need in order to extend the time available before oil resources are depleted and to allow the generation of capital requirements for future substitute systems. On a world basis a reduction in energy demand of the order of 30 per cent below that which would otherwise have occurred by unrestrained growth by the end of the century is seen to be an absolute necessity in order to maintain this balance. A delay of even 10 years before substantial introduction of such conservation programs could lead to an impossible situation by the end of the century. 
When the situation is examined on a regional or national basis, the same considerations apply with varying degrees of severity. No country of the world is seen to be in the position to escape the impact of the severe energy supply/demand situation which has been revealed. Just as there will be a need for a substantial movement of energy resources, fossil fuels and nuclear fuels, from energy-rich countries to energy-poor countries, there will be a need for substantial export of capital from economically strong countries to economically weak countries, if this problem is to be solved. There is seen to be no hope for the use of the socalled decentralised, soft energy technologies in poor or developing countries to supply their real needs. In the timescale considered it is felt that such sources of energy will not provide any suitable or significant input to industry and food production potential. They will be mainly applicable in areas of peripheral use for comfort and convenience. 
For the rural areas of the developing and evolving nations the cost of estabishing energy distribution systems based on electricity grids or pipelines will probably exceed available capital resources; this will reduce the possibility of use of nuclear fuels by such nations. There may be a need for economically strong countries to install more nuclear plant simply to allow the release of oil and gas for application in simple, low investment systems in developing countries. 
As a general comment (and this is supported by the more detailed presentations in the large number of individual technical papers presented at the Conference) it now may be said that the studies have been taken to a point where they provide adequate factual and statistical information for effective action by the world governments. The problem has been defined, the scope of its impact has been thoroughly explored and the available strategies and alternatives have been identified. The action now required is firm and resolute measures and policies by the major world governments. No time can be lost in presenting this situation to the people of the world and particularly to those groups who are delaying and preventing major programs of energy production at present, largely based upon wishful thinking that more acceptable programs might eventually emerge. 
I thank the Senate. Let me make it clear that I accept the problems and the scares of Harrisburg. Incidentally, according to my information at the moment the reading of iodine, which is one of the problems the Press has been talking about, is not very high at all. It is summed up in this simple way: From the estimation of the amount of radioactive iodine fallout, a person would need to drink something like 5,000 litres of milk each day for 12 months to exceed the annual intake of iodine- 131. I am quoting the best source I can get- we are awaiting the results of the full inquiry in the United States of America- and my information at this stage is that the radiation fall-out, and there was some around Harrisburg was said to be something like the equivalent of two chest x-rays. There was a lot of scare talk in the newspapers. It may come out that the radiation level was higher than that, it may come out that it was lower, but they are the estimates given by the closest authority that I can contact at this stage. 
Because of these energy gaps, because of the need for Australia to play its part in supplying uranium, and because of the need for us to back up the safeguards laid down by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  soon after we came into power, it has been necessary for us again to amend the Atomic Energy Act so as to allow the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to play its part as a commercial partner with the other two partners in the Ranger consortium, Whilst we are hearing criticism from the Opposition today, this Government is merely applying those safeguards and making the Act efficient so that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission can become an efficient partner. We are merely continuing upon the foundations laid in this area by the Whitlam Government. 
I certainly oppose the amendment, not just because it is proposed by the Opposition and not just because I do not think it is necessary, but because the Opposition, to be quite honest, is not really concerned about amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. It is diametrically opposed at this stage to the mining and exporting of uranium to feed an energy-hungry world. I support the motion. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen or heard reports that there will be great increases, millions of tonnes per annum, in the production of both aluminium and alumina with the development of five new refining plants in Australia? As this will increase the demand for caustic soda, which at present can be met only by imports from overseas, does this not give further weight to the proposal to establish a petrochemical plant producing caustic soda at Redcliff in South Australia? Will the Minister also pass this question on not only to the Minister for National Development but also to the Cabinet generally so as to give further weight to the argument for the development of such a petrochemical plant? 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  whether he can give any reason as to why the word 'suspension' does not appear. Also, why is there no right of appeal? Clause 22 states:  (I.) The Governor-General may terminate the appointment of the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner by reason of misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
I question why there is no opportunity for temporary suspension and I also ask why the Commissioner does not have any right of appeal with regard to his dismissal. I mention this to the Minister because there was criticism and concern expressed in South Australia over the Salisbury affair, as it was called. Police Commissioner Salisbury was dismissed by the State Government. Many people argued then that there should have been the opportunity for suspension and, more particularly, that the Commissioner should have had the right of appeal before he was dismissed. Can the Minister give reasons why this is not in the proposed legislation? 
I present the following petition from 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension of whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is he aware that, in 1972, 101 oil exploration wells were drilled in Australia, that by 1975 the number had dropped to 23 and that by 1976-77 it was as low as 2 1? Is he also aware that by last year exploration activity in Australia had increased to the extent that some 52 wells were being drilled, with further exploration activity taking place this year? Does this not clearly show that the policies of the Fraser Government have encouraged oil exploration- quite the reverse of the Whitlam era, when oil companies were literally driven out of the country and exploration was virtually stopped? Has not the tragic stopping of oil exploration during that period had an unfortunate and adverse affect upon Australia's current crude oil supplies? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Does he recall that on 1 8 September 1 975 the Whitlam Government made a statement on crude oil pricing? Is the Minister aware that in this statement the Labor Government stated that it had decided that any company discovering oil after 14 December 1 975 would receive import parity minus a levy of $2 a barrel? 
I address my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I do so being aware of the concern expressed by some people and accepting that lead additives to petrol greatly increase efficiency and fuel usage. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the research that has been done on the effects of lead in exhaust emissions and the current thinking on lead additives? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The moral obligation of Australia, as an energy rich country in an energy starved world, to undertake commercial development of its abundant resources including uranium.' 
I have moved this motion today because, in a world in which there is an ever increasing demand for and usage of energy, particularly with the sophistication of travel and the further development of industry, both in developed and developing countries, it has been estimated that more energy could be used between now and the turn of this century than has been used in the history of mankind. From that alone one can see that there is a need to look very closely at the world's energy situation and at those countries which are fortunate enough to be rather rich in energy resources. One point that must be made is that following the Industrial Revolution there was a great increase in the demand for and usage of coal for generation and to assist industry generally. But over the years we have seen the demand for coal change to a demand with greater emphasis upon crude oil, which again fits in with modern requirements and general usage. 
It was not until the oil crisis of 1973 that the world suddenly became aware that it was dealing with a diminishing energy resource. So there was a need for the major energy countries in particular to look around, to take stock and to reassess their energy requirements; to look to alternative sources of energy and also to general conservation. With the recent oil price hike, which has increased oil prices by something like 30 per cent since 1978, we find greater concern being expressed by the world generally. We have seen a change in the pattern of demand for particular types of energy. We have seen an upsurge in the demand for coal. We have also seen a great change in the demand for energy in the area of nuclear generation. 
Whatever some people may say, we have to accept that the world today has decided that it must go nuclear to fill this energy gap. The situation is becoming more critical every day of the week. One can look at the statistics and find outlined very clearly what is happening with regard to nuclear generation. From the figures of 27 March 1979, which are very recent figures, we find that some 53 countries throughout the world are committed to nuclear energy. Already 2 1 9 reactors are operating; 244 are under construction; 100 more are on order; and at least 200 more are planned to be established in various countries. This shows very clearly what the world situation is regarding the need to fill the energy gap. 
There is another area in which we can see the emphasis changing. I refer to the announcement in the Press yesterday that a $ 1 billion- I stress billion'- aluminium refinery or furnace, whichever people may like to call it, will be built at Gladstone, Queensland, purely because electricity there is cheap and in abundance because of the great coal supplies nearby. The trend of countries is to get to the source of their energy. Of course, Australia is one of those fortunate countries which are extremely rich in energy. We have a great abundance of coal- black steaming coal and black coking coal as well as brown coal. We have great abundance of uranium. We have one of the biggest reserves or sources of uranium in the world. Whilst we are not self-sufficient in oil, at present we are 70 per cent self-sufficient. We have vast amounts of natural gas and we have great potential in the area of shale ore, just to mention a few. But over and above that, we also have good potential to find more oil and gas in both the off-shore areas and the on-shore areas of Australia. I am very pleased to see the great increase which is taking place in on-shore exploration because of the policies of the Federal Government, which is conscious of the fact that as a government it must meet not only its national but also its international responsibilities. 
Again I refer to the terms of the motion. It refers to the moral obligation of Australia, as an energy rich country in an energy starved world, to undertake commercial development of its abundant resources including uranium. When we look at the situation in the various States of the Commonwealth of Australia we find that great developments are taking place in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria regarding both black and brown coal. There is great potential in that area and projects are being developed there with great emphasis upon increasing exports of coal to energy hungry countries throughout the world. In 1977-78 exports of coal totalled some $38m. In 1979 they have already increased to some $39m, and one can anticipate that we will continue to see great increases in that area. 
On the North West Shelf we have already discovered vast reserves of gas. Multi-millions of dollars will be expended there to bring that gas on-shore, where a lot of that gas will be sold overseas to help the energy needs of certain countries throughout the world. When one looks at uranium mining one finds that the development of mines in the Northern Territory and Western Australia is under way at present. A uranium enrichment plant will be established somewhere in this country. Under the strict guidelines set down by the Prime Minister  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, some two years ago, one has greater control in selling enriched uranium than in selling just uranium ore or yellowcake, as it is called by many people. But the interesting thing is that already three States in Australia wish to establish a uranium enrichment plant. I refer to Western Australia, Queensland and New South Wales. Last year the New South Wales Premier made approaches to see whether an enrichment plant could be established in that State. I commend him for doing that, and I accept the fact that he is the Premier of a Labor government. Nevertheless he can see that there is a need to fill the energy gap throughout the world. But there is one State in Australia that does not wish to adopt a uniform approach with regard to this country meetings its obligations. I refer to the State of South Australia. South Australia has a large amount of uranium. It has numerous deposits scattered throughout the northern areas. In fact, the proven reserves of uranium there at present are greater than the proven reserves in the Northern Territory. 
-I will deal with that in a moment. 
-I shall not talk about how deep the uranium deposits are, as one honourable senator opposite has done. There is one company- I know that  Senator Jessop,  who is also from South Australia, will be dealing with this matter because he has been involved in this area of uranium- that virtually could start tomorrow morning if it were given the green light. So enough of that talk. Amongst these deposits there is a deposit known as Roxby Downs, which is already proven to be larger than the city of Melbourne. Many people say that the mine at Roxby Downs could be one of the largest mines in the world. So far it is proven to hold something like 10 million tonnes of copper and 300,000 tonnes of uranium, plus gold and rare earth. Mining of Roxby Downs would have a great impact upon Australia, especially South Australia. Firstly, a township would have to be built, with all the infrastructures that go with it. Secondly, milling plants and refineries would need to be established to separate the copper, uranium, gold and rare earth. I could go on. We might move even into refining with smelters. One can see the great potential that that mine holds. It would employ literally thousands of people. Millions of dollars would be invested there. 
At the present time Roxby will not be developed because the Labor Party in South Australia says no, even though it will admit that there is an energy-hungry world. I should say also that Roxby Downs, if it is not developed, will be the only commercially viable uranium mine in the world that is not being developed. I say to those honourable senators opposite who have been interjecting that they should look at some of the countries on the other side of the world. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, for instance, is mining every ounce of uranium it possibly can. It is interesting to consider the history of the uranium policy in the Labor Party in South Australia. I refer to an article in the  Bulletin  on 6 February this year which was written by  Dr Dean  Jaensch. The article states: 
Three related events have sparked off new rumours of an early election in South Australia. The main one- the Roxby Downs copper and uranium deposits- is being described as crucial to the economy or the State, particularly since economics commentators have been predicting some hard times in the not too long term future. 
Premier Dunstan is at present overseas on a fact finding mission on the possibility of the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia, and the ALP has released a draft of a new policy on the issue. 
It goes on, and this is most interesting: 
The left of the party is organising opposition and this will come to a head in a special convention this month. Even if it approved, there is the larger hurdle of a national conference in Adelaide in July. 
An article in the  Canberra Times  of 19 June this year, under the heading 'Federal policy on uranium debated ', stated: 
The State Minister for Health,  Mr Duncan,  representing the Elizabeth sub-branch moved to direct branch delegates at next month's national Labor policy convention to support the current Federal platform on uranium. 
Here is the catch-phrase: 
However, he incorporated an amendment directing delegates to amend the Federal platform to provide for the repudiation of contracts without compensation. 
After a fight at the State convention, that amendment was beaten and  Mr Duncan  missed out. It is also interesting to note what happened at the Federal ALP executive meeting. When it was discussed there was a battle, and all that the Premier, the Minister of Mines and the others in the Labor Party in South Australia who support the mining of uranium could do was achieve a holding position and maintain the current policy. It is interesting to see how the attitudes of the Labor Party in South Australia finally were exposed. Roxby Downs is so big that outside partners had to be sought. Eventually British Petroleum came in as a partner, with an initial investment of some $50m. I want to make it clear that BP is a very big company, a very successful company and a very alert company. No doubt it would not have gone ahead with such an investment unless it had been told by  Mr Corcoran  that Roxby Downs would go ahead. No company is going to invest $50m on a dead horse. In any case,  Mr Peter  Duncan, one of the left wingers in South Australia- he makes no bones about that- made a public statement, firstly, that BP would be wasting its money if it were to invest and, secondly, that the mining of uranium would never take place at Roxby Downs. Those are two positive statements. The next thing we find is that an anti-uranium lobby was set up within the parliamentary Labor Party in South Australia to oppose anything relating to the mining of uranium. So there is a big division in the State of South Australia. There are many right wingers in the Labor Party in South Australia who support the mining of uranium. Others of the party's extreme Left strongly oppose it. 
-Rather than looking to the responsibilities of the State and the nation and helping to supply the energy needs of the world, they prefer to adopt their radical left wing policies. They will not assist in any way to meet needs that are so easy to see and so necessary to fulfil. As this matter has progressed the left wing finally has forced  Mr Corcoran  to a State election some 18 months early. It is only a few weeks ago that the Premier,  Mr Corcoran,  made it perfectly clear that he had no intention of going to an election. I come back to the article in the  Bulletin,  where the issue is spelled out.  (Quorum formed).  As I was saying,  Mr Corcoran  has been forced into an early election by the left wing of the Labor Party in South Australia. There is absolutely no doubt that it is using him as a front for the election. Left wing members know jolly well that a left wing leadership would never get the support of the people in South Australia, whereas  Mr Corcoran  has an image and is respected by many people there. No doubt what will happen is that he will be deposed by the left wing because it will have an increase in numbers after the election. There are four candidates for safe seats who are reported to be staunch left wingers. It is obvious that there will be absolutely no uranium mining, no Roxby Downs in South Australia. 
What this means in real terms is that not only will the people of South Australia, if they vote for the Labor Party, be opposed to economic development, including Roxby Downs, and filling the obligations for the energy needs of the world, but also they will be voting for somebody else as Leader of the Labor Party. Who would that be? Would it be somebody like Peter Duncan? Most people in South Australia know his politics, and I make no bones about saying that. They are very conscious of that. I can only say that, as far as I as a South Australian am concerned,  Mr Corcoran  has let down South Australia by giving in to the left wing of his party.  Mr Corcoran  should have stood his ground and fought for what he believes in, including the mining of uranium at Roxby Downs. I say that to  Senator McLaren,  who asked me to give him a name. 

 Mr Corcoran should not allow himself to be used as an election tool by the radical left wing of the South Australian Labor party on an issue that is so vital to South Australia. He is being used in this way and he knows what is going to happen eventually. All he is doing is allowing himself to be used in the hope of winning an election for his party, knowing full well that the left wing will take control straight after the election. There is absolutely no doubt about that. I am making a positive forecast. No doubt others in the right wing of the Labor Party are fully aware of it. There are honest men in the Australian Labor Party who do support the mining of uranium. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do so following the criticisms which are being levelled by the Australian Labor Party concerning inflation in Australia at the present time. How did the inflation rate in Australia compare with the inflation rates of many other countries in the preWhitlam era and during the Whitlam era? How does it compare at the present time? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to the recent figures published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing a reduction in unemployment in Australia. What effect will the situation in South Australia have on the figures published recently by the Australian Bureau of Statistics which clearly show that there has been an increase of some 6,000 people on the unemployment list in South Australia and that the State unemployment figure rose by approximately 3 per cent in the last 12 months? I ask the Minister again: What effect will these unfortunate figures in South Australia have on the total assessment of unemployment in Australia? 
There have been many speakers on the Budget Papers. While there has been criticism from the Opposition in some areas of the Budget, generally speaking there has been wide acceptance of this year's Budget in the general community. I can only say that I endorse the remarks that have been made by so many of the leaders in industry and other people throughout the community that this Budget shows clearly that the Government has been on the right fiscal path to bring Australia back on the road to recovery. One only has to look at the market place to see the confidence that exists. One looks at the stock exchange these days, which is always a good indicator, and one finds that share values are up again. That is a strong indicator that there is confidence again in the market place. So, one can go on down the line. One can refer to export development that has taken place and the initiative of the Government that brought in export incentives which have done so much to encourage the development of new export markets throughout the world. A further great amount of money is provided in the Budget this year to give further encouragement, help and incentive to industry generally. 
Whilst I could spend the whole of my allotted time dealing with various aspects of the Budget, at this stage I feel that I must deal with a couple of criticisms that had been made by the Opposition. I wish to refer to crude oil pricing, which has been criticised both in the Senate chamber and in other places. The wisest thing the Federal Government did was to bring in import parity for crude oil pricing because that has had many benefits for Australia. Honourable senators should realise that, initially, Australia had 70 per cent of its own oil requirements, which came from Bass Strait, Moonie and from Barrow Island- the bulk coming from Bass Strait- but this was rapidly depleting. By 1985 Australia could have been down to something like 40 per cent indigenous supply. Because of import parity the Government has increased the reserves of crude oil in Australia. By increasing the price of crude oil the Government has made it economically possible for so much more oil to be produced that otherwise would have laid unused in the sea-bed. Figures are given that reserves have increased by something like 600 million to 700 million barrels or, to put it another way, an increase of something like three years' supply of crude oil for Australia. At a time when there is a critical shortage in the world it shows just how wise this policy was. 
The Government has also done something else. The last Budget brought in tax incentives for off-shore exploration. This is a very expensive exercise. It can cost up to $10m to drill one wellhole. The record has been a success rate of something like one in 43 holes off-shore. Exploration has developed again off-shore and this year the Federal Government also brought in incentives for on-shore exploration. We have seen the great upturn there. This is not entirely due just to the incentives that the Government has given by way of taxation. It is also due to the pricing policy of the Government. Let me say here and now that, irrespective of incentives for exploration, no company would have ventured out to the north west plateau, which is regarded as one of the most prospective off-shore areas in the world, to try to find oil when it was at the ridiculous price which the producers in Australia were getting before import parity, of something like $3.60 a barrel. 
-Now the Labor Party is trying to claim some credit for it. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development been drawn to Press articles in which  Mr Hayden  and  Mr Corcoran,  the Premier of South Australia, are reported to have said that Australia produces 90 per cent of its petrol supplies from Australia's indigenous crude oil? Do Australia's refineries in fact produce this amount of motor spirit from Australia's crude oil? If not, are not such statements a blatant distortion of fact? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. With the newly elected Government in South Australia in agreement with the mining of uranium in the State, can the Minister give any indication as to what federal conditions would have to be met, including environmental conditions? Would these have any effect on the beginning of the mining of uranium in South Australia, particularly the Honeymoon deposit, where reports by mining engineers have stated that it could be mined and in production within 12 months? 
I present the following petition from 50 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda unit glorifying the Soviet regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the main instrument in keeping formally free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violations of Human Rights to be perpetrated. The support, therefore, of such instruments of a totalitarian regime can only harm the development of free and liberal thought under it. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Australian Government assert its support for the aspirations of subjugated people by denying entry into this country to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether it is intended to forward the figures on the Australian coal reserves to the 1980 world energy conference to be held in Munich. If so, could these figures be released on a State by State breakdown in Australia now? 
-in reply- I would like to respond to the comments of both  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe.  I accept that it is the first responsibility of a senator to be present in the chamber when the Senate is in session. But I remind the Senate that the Standing Committee on Public Works has the responsibility to examine any project the expenditure upon which is to exceed some $2m. Also, it is a full parliamentary committee comprising representatives of both chambers of the Parliament and all parties in the Parliament. The Committee has met on other occasions in similar circumstances. One such occasion was in 1970. Also, in more recent times, the Committee was obliged to meet because of the vast amount of evidence that had to be given, and the decision that had to be made, in regard to the Australian Defence Force Academy. On other occasions, because of a crisis, standing committees of the Senate have met in these circumstances. 
Although the comment has been made today by one or two senators that evidence could and should be taken at other times with regard to the building of a new airport at Brisbane, I emphasise that it is beyond the control of the Committee to hold such a hearing any earlier than is proposed. I say that for quite a variety of reasons. 
We have to await clearances in respect of certain areas. Also, a great deal of preparation goes into the arrangements for the taking of evidence. There is a need to do these things properly and democratically, so that everyone who desires to speak for or against a project will have an opportunity to do so. One must not appear to be stifling discussion or the opportunity for any individual or organisation to put forward such evidence as he or it sees fit to present- evidence that one has had time to prepare fully. Also, it has been suggested that we should sit on a Friday, Saturday and Sunday. May I remind  Senator Cavanagh  in particular, that as far as many of the witnesses are concerned, that would be impractical. Therefore, after long deliberation, and being very aware as a senator of where my primary responsibilities lie- as do my colleagues on the Committee from both sides of the chamber- it was agreed that the only time slot available, if we were to give proper consideration to the building of a new airport at Brisbane, was that which embraced the dates proposed. We do not do this lightly and I ask that the Senate give the Committee members the opportunity to perform one of their other parliamentary duties, that of examining the possibility of building a new airport in Brisbane. If we do not do that now, the time factor is such that it will not be done until next year. I doubt very much whether the people of Queensland will be happy about there being another six months' delay. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I call  Senator Cavanagh.  I saw  Senator Cavanagh  rise first. 

 Senator Cavanagh (South Australia) (8.22)-  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I am concerned about the right of my colleague,  Senator Mcintosh,  to take part in this debate because, at this stage, possibly he can add more to it than I can. I would not have risen but for the concluding remarks of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who said that she fails to see what the Opposition is concerned about with respect to this matter.  Her  statement is brought about by her complete lack of knowledge of what goes on in legal tribunals when these matters are under consideration. She stated that section 20 of the Act provides protection with respect to the problem that we raise and that the tribunal will be guided by equity and good conscience. In every piece of legislation which deals with courts or tribunals which have jurisdiction in matters of this kind, and which hear appeals from laymen on such subjects, such a formula is used. The proceedings of these tribunals are not concerned specifically with evidence on oath or evidence in chief and cross-examination. The hearings are not concerned with the strict application of legal proceedings but with a search for the truth. That is the test which we must apply in considering this matter. 
Notwithstanding what I have said, an appellant before such an appeals tribunal is not relieved of the responsibility to show that he or she suffered an injury in terms of the non-legal application of the provisions of the Act. Under the present provisions, an appellant has a right of appeal on whether a certain level of expenditure was reasonable. The success of an appeal in respect of additional expenditure which the appellant thinks is justified rests on the Commissioner being satisfied on that point. The point that I make in respect of this matter is that the Commission has to be satisfied not whether, for example, the cost of the installation of handrails or a chain by which a person can raise himself or herself from a toilet is reasonable but whether the circumstances with respect to the matter satisfy him. What does 'circumstances' mean? The concern is not with the injury but with some other element. Clause 7 states: 
. except where the Commissioner is satisfied that the circumstances of the case justify the excess. 
The legislation deals with reasonable expenditure and in the same provision refers to 'an excess over the limit'. But in relation to that provision, the Commissioner must be satisfied that the circumstances of the case justify the excess. Circumstances' in this respect must mean something different from 'reasonable'. What does the use of that word mean? When eminent Queens Counsel discuss this legislation before the Bench, God knows what this provision may be interpreted to mean. It may be interpreted as being something entirely different from what the Minister or her Department intended. It may mean something entirely different from what the Minister is telling us tonight. 
I ask: Why is not the ambiguity that exists with respect to this matter cleared up now? If it is not, legal men will rake off a fortune as the judicial authorities try to decide what we meant when we agreed to this legislation this evening. Why do such conflicts continue to appear in Acts of Parliament? Is this done to create a further haven from which members of the legal profession will argue before the courts what the legislation means? I believe that the Minister has demonstrated that she is unable to explain the meaning. If the Minister wants this provision to remain in the legislation and takes the view that its meaning can be argued in the future, the Government has the numbers to ensure that the legislation is passed and its provisions come into operation. I will say no more than that no justification exists for this provision. The points that we make have  been explained. We claim that the limit is unnecessary. The Minister cannot explain why the limit is proposed. There must be a reason for it being included. Rather than this matter being cleared up now in the Parliament, the Government appears to have taken the decision that it will be cleared up at some time in the future before the courts of law. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Is consideration still being given to the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia? If so, has consideration been given to its establishment in any particular State? Is it not a fact that South Australia was the leading Australian State on research into uranium enrichment, having had a specialist committee working for some four years on activities including holding discussions with URENCO/CENTEC, a British-Dutch- West German consortium and a world leader in the centrifuge system of enrichment? Will the Minister have discussions with the new Government in South Australia on the possibility of establishing an enrichment plant in South Australia, where so much research has been done and where there is now full support for the establishment of an enrichment plant and the mining of uranium? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
New Terminal Complex at Coolangatta Aerodrome, Queensland; and Darwin Patrol Boat Base at Larrakeyah, Northern Territory. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has he seen reports that the Japanese Government is spending $6. 7m on a project to extract uranium from seawater? Does not this undertaking by Japan clearly support statements made by many realistic people throughout the world that if countries are really concerned about the future supply of uranium they could obtain it from the sea at a price? Would not this later seawater project by Japan rather dampen the spirits of the anti-uranium mining group in Australia and make some of the more radical look rather wet behind the ears or all at sea? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen reports of further significant finds of minerals, including uranium, copper, gold and rare earth, some 1,600 metres south of recent significant discoveries at Roxby Downs mine in South Australia, which have greatly increased what had already been described as massive reserves, larger than the area of the city of Melbourne? Also, has the Minister seen statements by the Australian Labor Party spokesman on minerals and energy, warning companies that any development of a mine such as Roxby Downs would be at their own risk, because the Australian Labor Party would not honour any contractual arrangements? Also, is the Minister  aware that such statements by the Australian Labor Party in South Australia were a contributing factor in the decimation of that party in the recent election in that State, because such Leftwing dominated policies threatened the development of one of the greatest - 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that New Zealanders are obtaining unemployment benefits in Australia? Is the Minister also aware that some of the recipients of these benefits are on holidays and hitch-hiking in Australia? Do we have reciprocal arrangements with New Zealand for the payment of unemployment benefits? If so, what steps are being taken to stop New Zealand holidaymakers bludging on the Australian community? If there is no such reciprocation, what steps are being taken to stop New Zealanders taking advantage of such unemployment benefits? 
Does the Minister wish to reply? 
-I ask the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen reports that now even China and some other major trading countries are doing extensive research into the extraction of uranium from the sea because, as has been stated, an independent and secured uranium supply, even from exotic and expensive sources, is to be preferred to reasonably priced but uncertain supplies of uranium. Does this not clearly show that many countries are very concerned about their future energy needs, and that Australia should do all it can to assist those countries by mining its uranium as soon as it possibly can? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Following questions previously asked by-Senator Missen and me on the need to reduce the alcoholic content of beer, I ask the Minister whether the Government has given consideration to reducing the excise on low alcohol beer to encourage its consumption in preference to beers with a higher alcoholic content and its consequent social benefits, particularly with regard to driving under the influence. If the Government has not done this, will it do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Is it intended to forward the figures on the Australian coal reserves to the 1980 world energy conference to be held in Munich. If so, could these figures be released on a State by State breakdown in Australia now? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources the following question, without notice, on 26 September 1979: 
Has he seen reports that' the Japanese Government is spending $6.7m on a project to extract uranium from seawater? Does not this undertaking by Japan clearly support statements made by many realistic people throughout the world that if countries are really concerned about the future supply of uranium they could obtain it from the sea at a price? Would not this later seawater project by Japan rather dampen the spirits of the anti-uranium mining group in Australia and make some of the more radical look rather wet behind the ears or all at sea? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he has seen reports of many Australian travellers losing payments made for the new low price advance purchase excursion tickets for overseas travel? Is he aware that, because of the refusal of some insurance companies to reimburse them, many of these unfortunate people forfeit their payments even though they have taken out such insurance to cover themselves against any unforeseen circumstance that may prevent their making their trip, or even cause them to change the proposed flight dates? Will the Government have discussions with both the airlines and, in particular, the insurance companies involved to ensure that the conditions of insurance are made fairer for genuine travellers so that they can be better protected against circumstances and mishaps which are beyond their control and which in many cases at present mean a loss of life savings and of an overseas trip to which they have looked forward for many years? Will the Government make public the names of insurance companies which are not prepared to respond and give better protection to people who take out such insurance? 
-l rise this evening to support this legislation which is an amending Bill to the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act. The main purpose of this Bill, as has been said tonight by both Senators Gietzelt and Davidson, is to increase the annual percentage of the net personal income tax collections which the Federal Government collects generally in revenue and which is allocated to local governments. This percentage has been increased this year from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. This has carried out a Government promise. The Government said when it came to office that by 1980-81 we would be up to two per cent of this tax sharing arrangement for local government. I have noted tonight that the Opposition has supported this legislation. Nevertheless, at the same time, it has been critical of many aspects of the present system of sharing and funding local government. I say with great respect that I accept and understand the criticism of the Opposition tonight, because our philosophy is different from its philosophy. Tonight  Senator Gietzelt  has spoken at quite some length about the benefits of section 96 which directs grants and which the Whitlam Government, when in office, applied to the State governments and particularly to local governments. I personally did not agree with this, and I shall go on in a moment to explain the reasons why. 
Our Government believes in the three tiers of government, that is the federal sphere, the State governments and of course the local governments and authorities. At the same time that belief also supports the policies as well as the philosophy that both State governments and local authorities should have maximum independence and flexibility. We believe that nobody better than local government knows the local problem, and as such it should be allowed to be in the position whereby it can make its allocation and direct its funding according to the priorities as it sees them in its local region. This is where there is a great difference between our policies and attitudes and those of the Labor Government when it was in power, and even today in opposition. The Australian Labor Party tended more towards a centralist policy whereas, as has been described tonight, we tend more towards a federalist policy believing, as I have said, that there are areas of responsibility in the three tiers of government. As I have said many times before, nobody knows the local problems better than the local people. Canberra is too far away from the local problems and the local people, and I think this is the crux of the difference between our two attitudes. 
Comment and criticism have been passed tonight with regard to the Fraser federalism policy.  Senator Gietzelt  did this earlier this evening. But here again I think it spells out many aspects, two of the major ones being, firstly, responsibility to local regions and, secondly, flexibility for the administration within those local regions. Basically there are five essential elements in the federal policy. I will just quote them for the Senate. The first is that there be: 
A permanent and guaranteed share of personal income tax collections to the States. 
This of course is something which was agreed to by the States with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Here we have a growth factor which floats along with inflation. This has been gradually introduced. Whilst there has been criticism, again basically on political lines generally, I think it has been accepted that there have been benefits to the States. I appreciate that members of the Senate on the other side of the chamber do not agree with that statement, nevertheless if we go out in the field we will find that the great majority of people do agree with it. Another one, of course, is that there be: 
A permanent and guaranteed share of personal income tax collections to local government. 
This basically is what this amending Bill is about. Also that there shall be an: 
Establishment of a State Grants Commission in each State to determine the allocation within each State of local government 's share of personal income tax. 
Here again the position is becoming more localised. Canberra is not directing. We are getting down to a State commission to look at the State scene and after discussion in relation to the local scene, allocations are made accordingly. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, there was a reduction of the Commonwealth centralist control over payments to the States. This, to me, is extremely important. There is always a danger with centralism that, divorced from the local area and combined with bureaucracy it tends to become insular. Canberra today is no longer a city of expatriots. It is a city that now basically has a Public Service of indigenes. The public servants have been born, educated and live in Canberra. These people, with justification, see Australia through the eyes of Canberra. They no longer see it as an ex-Victorian, ex-New South Welshman, exQueenslander, ex-Tasmanian, ex-South Australian or ex- Western Australian. They do not see Australia as a State man. They see Australia as a Canberra man, and there is no doubt that I would do the same if I were born, educated and lived in Canberra. This is one of the risks of centralism. Here again I emphasise that we as a Government have moved away from centralism in order to get authority and responsibility more localised in the areas where the locals themselves know their greatest needs and can assess their priorities accordingly. Finally- I deal with the federalism policy, with those five essential elements- that there be: 
Establishment of an Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations, including representatives of the Commonwealth, the States, local government and the community. 
I repeat that: 
Establishment of an Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations, including representatives of the Commonwealth, the States, local government and the community. 
That to me is an absolutely balanced mix whereby through this Advisory Council, all those involved in the local side, the regional side and right up through to the central side, can sit down and discuss things together in a far more fruitful way than, quite frankly, happened during the Whitlam era. 
Section 96 grants were mentioned at length by  Senator Gietzelt  tonight. Section 96 grants, of course, are those that are referred to as tied grants. The money is given, but also a direction is given that that money will be spent according to the directions of the giver. In other words, the Federal Government would direct a grant under section 96, but it would say to those local governments how that money was to be spent. Basically we had a farcical situation a few years ago when this applied, when great emphasis was placed on section 96 grants and where local councils in the country virtually had to apply to Canberra to get a new tyre for a grader. This was how farcical the situation was becoming. Those are facts of life and it is no good honourable senators on the other side shaking their heads. These were the facts of life. The control from the centralist government was such that it would say: 'X amount of money will be allocated but on the basis that you will spend it in such and such a way'. It was direction from Canberra rather than recommendation from the local scene. These are some of the strong criticisms that I have with the centralist policy which was adopted during the Whitlam era. 
I say again, with great respect to the Opposition, that our philosophies are different and our policies accordingly are different. They tend to be more towards centralism, and we tend to be more towards federalism. It is a difference in philosophy and in view that no doubt will always continue. Criticism has also been made tonight about the actual funding under this tax-sharing arrangement with local government. I should like to go back through the figures myself. If we take 1975-76 as a base, which was the last year of the Whitlam Labor Government, we find that in the first year of the Fraser Government, in 1976- 77, there was an increase of some 75 per cent in funding. I want to emphasise this. There was a 75 per cent increase in funding. But in 1977- 78 it went up by a further 18.1 per cent. That was an 18.1 per cent increase on the previous year when there had been a 75 per cent increase. We jumped 75 per cent in the first year of government. Granted, inflation was running pretty rife at that stage but it certainly was not running at 75 per cent. I think this increase showed the recognition by the Fraser Federal Government of the need for local government funding. As I say, in 1977-78 local government funds went up by 18 per cent; in 1978-79 they went up by a further 8.5 per cent; and this year, because of the increase to 1 . 75 per cent in income tax collections going to local government, there will be an increase of some 23.5 per cent. It has been estimated that next year, when the Government meets its commitment of bringing the local government share of income tax collections to two per cent, the increase in funds could be as much as 36 per cent. 
If we relate these increases to the inflationary trends, I think we can show that in real terms local government is receiving increased funding from the Federal Government, although perhaps not in quantities that the local government would like to see. But let us face it; nobody would be satisfied no matter how much you gave him. Everybody would like to get a far larger slice of the cake if he could, but there are limits on the size of the budgetary cake. Nevertheless, within those limits the Fraser Government has virtually given the opportunity to both the States and local government to have an escalation factor applying to their funding under present tax sharing arrangements. So as revenue goes up the States, and particularly local government, benefit. 
I support this legislation. I look forward to the Government increasing local governments' share of income tax collections to two per cent next year. I wish the economy had been such that the Government could have increased it to two per cent this year. I am certain the Government wishes it was able to do that. I hope that we, as a government, will always continue to leave responsibilities where responsibility should be, that is, with the locals, who know their local problems and are better judges of how money should be allocated and spent than we in Canberra, who see things only from a long distance. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for National Development recall my asking on 19 September this year whether it was intended to forward the figures on Australian coal reserves to the 1980 world energy conference to be held in Munich, and, if so, whether the figures could be released on a State by State breakdown in Australia? I have received a reply from the Minister for National Development stating that such figures have been supplied to the world energy conference. I again ask: Can these figures be supplied also to us in this chamber? 
Has the Minister for Education seen an article by Professor Karmel, who is  Chairman  of the Tertiary Education Commission, on 'How to Cut the Teenage Dole Queue'. Is the Minister aware that in the article Professor Karmel refers to the relatively high level of juvenile rates of pay compared with adult rates, the low productivity of a significant number of young workers partly through lack of skills and partly through attitudes to work, the high cost of on-the-job training for young workers, structural changes in which the proportion of unskilled and semi-skilled jobs has been falling, plus many other matters including teaching basic skills to school children? Will the Minister have discussions with Professor Karmel to see whether some of the problems raised by him and which are having an adverse effect on the employment of young people can be overcome? 
Has the Attorney-General seen reports that a federal judge in the United States of America has, for the first time, rejected the Australian Government's claim that United States courts should respect the protection given by the Australian Government to Australian companies from the far-reaching claims and extreme penalties of the United States anti-trust laws? As such a rejection involves some major Australian mining companies and millions of dollars in both export sales and possible fines, what steps does the Australian Government propose to take on this matter? As other countries, such as Canada and the United Kingdom, could also be involved in the matter of the United States anti-trust laws, does the Australian Government intend to work in concert with these countries in defending national interests? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that a severe storm or cyclone struck parts of South Australia last night, cutting a swathe of millions of dollars worth of damage from the township of Port Broughton on Spencer Gulf through to Renmark near the Victorian border and that at this stage communications are out in many of those areas? Is the Minister also aware that the damage at Port Broughton has been described as a miniDarwin in that it is estimated that some 300 homes and beach houses have been badly damaged or totally destroyed there, besides the damage done to the outlying farming areas, including the destruction of grain crops; and that there has also been extensive damage to the Barossa Valley where early estimates show that at least $5m worth of damage has been caused, including the destruction of some 700 acres of vineyards and extensive damage to some of South Australia's well-known wineries? Is the Minister also aware that the storm got very close to Adelaide and caused extensive damage to many tomato houses, garden areas and apple crops? Because of the extensive damage done by this cyclone, will the Government give very serious consideration to declaring this a national disaster and to giving wholehearted support, including financial assistance for reconstruction, to some of these badly affected areas? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen reports that an oil exploration company is to spend some $13m on oil exploration in Queensland over the next two years, which is regarded as a very large scale operation. Is not this oil exploration project a further example of the success of the Government's import oil parity pricing which among its many benefits has given encouragement and incentive to oil companies to spend large amounts of money on oil exploration which could result in Australia's gaining greater self-sufficiency in crude oil supplies? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports that the European Parliament criticised its Ministers for being lethargic in implementing a European Community program to combat the energy crisis, stating that it can be described only as getting deeper every day? Is the Minister aware that since this criticism the European Commission expects to announce the approval of loans totalling some $2,000m to finance the development of nuclear energy programs in Europe? Do not these attitudes and policies clearly show that many countries are aware of the need for nuclear generation to fill the energy gap? Do not they also clearly show that many countries have decided to go nuclear and will be looking to Australia to accept its responsibilities to supply uranium to operate nuclear reactors? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Redevelopment of Brisbane International Airport-Initial Works on Phase 1 , Queensland. 
I wish to refer to some answers that I have received from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in response to my questions when its officers came before Senate Estimates Committee B. I asked those questions because of my concern about certain things that were stated and recorded in the Senate  Hansard  of 29 August. I refer to a document headed 'Safety Record Of 
The Nuclear Power Industry-Accidents, Leaks, Failures and Incidents' which was compiled by  Senator Coleman  and incorporated in  Hansard.  On reading it I was very concerned at some of the items that had been included and took it up with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I accept the fact that in this country there are many people in this country who are concerned about the development of nuclear reactors and nuclear generation. I am also very concerned because many misleading statements are made and frequently these cause unnecessary alarm. I refer to a report of  Mr Justice  Parker of the United Kingdom on what was known as the Windscale Inquiry. Almost in its introductory remarks, on page 3, under the heading 'Essential Background ', the report states: 
This report is as I understand it, intended to form, as was the Inquiry, an element in a wide public debate on nuclear issues. Moreover it was repeatedly stressed by one or other party in the course of the Inquiry that the public are badly informed and should be better informed. I have no doubt whatever that this is so, in the sense that the public should be provided with more in the way of digestible and reliable information. It is the lack of such information which renders the public or some members of it suspicious of those who operate the nuclear industry and exposes them to anxieties which are needless. 
I emphasise the words 'exposes them to anxieties which are needless'.  Mr Justice  Parker continues: 
In saying this I do not intend to imply that there are no grounds for anxiety in certain respects. There clearly are. It is equally clear, however, that many of the anxieties which are felt are without foundation and spring from a fear of anything nuclear, no doubt partly due to the fact that the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs, with their devastating effects were the opening events of the development of nuclear power. Furthermore the anxieties which are felt, and deeply felt, however irrational and misplaced they may be, undoubtedly do exist. 
Having made inquiries from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission the Committee eventually received a reply as follows: 
. with reference to the more general points raised in the document at p. 363 of Senate Hansard of 29 August - 
That is a reference to the document that was incorporated by  Senator Coleman.  The reply continues: many of the reports of occurrences in the document are misleading or incorrect . . . and others are of remote or uncertain significance to nuclear health and safety or of no significance at all. The overwhelming majority of the references cited are from: 
i ) non-scientific and non-technical sources; 
sources which are inadequately specified for any reasonable check to be undertaken on the material they contain. 
The relatively small number of references cited from authoritative sources are, in the main, quoted selectively and out of context. 
That statement was made by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The reason I bring this matter up tonight is that although I accept that, as I have said, there are people who are opposed- for reasons they think justified- it concerns me that members of this place should purposely set to work to have incorporated in  Hansard  statements which, as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has said, are misleading. I will refer to two or three of these misleading statements. At page 363 of  Hansard  reference is made to an event at Windscale No. 1 , England, in October 1 957, which was a long time ago. A lot of research has been done, and a lot of advances have been made, since that date. Nevertheless the following statement was incorporated in  Hansard: 
Fire caused by human error. Defective procedure. Eleven tons of uranium ablaze released a vast cloud of radioisotopes from the melted fuel. 
And so it goes on. As set out in Annex 1 to the report of Estimates Committee B, at page 23, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission replied further as follows: 
Contrary to the statements made in the document: 
A Committee of Inquiry which was set up after the Windscale accident (1957) and its report was published as a British Government White Paper  . . Many other reports were published on aspects of the accident. Allegations of uncertainty concerning its health and safety effects were not substantiated at the recent Windscale Inquiry in the UK. 
I refer again to page 363 of Senate  Hansard  where the following appears: 1961 -Idaho Falls, USA. Reported as first MAJOR reactor accident in USA. An explosion occurred, the cause of which is still not known. 
The answer received from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission was as follows: 
The cause of the SL-I reactor accident at Idaho Falls ( 1 96 1 ) is known with reasonable certainty. 
The comment incorporated by  Senator Coleman  was that the cause was still not known. The answer from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission stated emphatically: 
The cause of the reactor accident ... is known with reasonable certainty. The accident occurred due to a control rod being withdrawn by hand during maintenance, an operation which is physically impossible in today's nuclear power plants. 
I repeat: 
. an operation which is physically impossible in today's nuclear power plants. 
I turn to page 364 of Senate  Hansard  of 29 August 1 979, where the following appears: 1963, April-U.S.S Thresher-Nuclear Submarine. Disappeared ona deep test dive; 1 1 2 navy men and 1 7 civilians on board. No-one knows what happened but the loss underlines the implications of substandard quality control in nuclear systems . . . 
The answer from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission was as follows: 
The reason for the loss of the US submarine  Thresher  ( 1 963 ) is known and was not related to a nuclear plant fault. In fact, there was no damage to the nuclear reactor and there was no radiation leak. 
One can go on. If one turns to annex 2 of the Atomic Energy Commission's explanation one sees the heading 'Random examples of quotations out of context, incomplete or of no nuclear health and safety implication'. One could go on with this matter and spell out quite a few more. For the record, perhaps I should quote a few of these examples. The document incorporated by  Senator Coleman  refers to deaths in the Federal Republic of Germany in 1 975 following the leak of 800 litres of radioactive steam during vent repairs. 1 repeat that the document states that two deaths followed the leak of 800 litres of radioactive steam during vent repairs. Inquiries with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission revealed that the deaths were caused by steam burns and that radioactivity was not significant. There is a great difference. I could cite many more examples. I suggest to honourable senators that they should look at the report of Senate Estimates Committee B and read the factual answers given by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
One could go on to give many more examples.  Senator Primmer  can say, if he likes, that they are from biased men. The people in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission are responsible people. Anybody in this chamber who wishes to stand up and accuse them of irresponsibility can go his hardest, but to make statements like that is to be misleading. I would rather take notice of what people in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission tell me than take notice of inserts like this in the Senate Hansard. I hope that those who participate in future debates in this place will give factual information irrespective of their political views on issues like this. We in this place, whatever our views might be, should not give misleading information; we should try to put the facts before the people of this country. One should realise that the world itself is turning nuclear. This is an emotive issue. We must do our best to make sure that responsibility will play its part in this very important issue. 
