The Minister for Shipping and Transport will recall his visit to King Island and discussions and investigations since then, paid for by the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the State Government on the selection of the site for a new port for King Island at either Currie or Grassy. In view of the importance of this matter in providing for a possible  shipping link from Stanley through King Island to Melbourne, can the Minister advise the House of the progress made to date and can he say when we may expect a decision on the approved site? 
1 ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question about war service land settlement. Is he aware that the Tasmanian Parliament has appointed a committee to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Tasmania? Why did the Department of Primary Industry advise its officer in Western Australia to refuse to discuss with the  chairman  of the Tasmanian committee any matter relating to war service land settlement in Western Australia, despite the fact that the Tasmanian Parliament had arranged an interview between the committee's  chairman  and the Commonwealth's officer in Perth on the occasion of the chairman's visit to Western Australia earlier this year? Will the Minister facilitate the work of the Tasmanian parliamentary committee in delving into all aspects of war service land settlement in Tasmania by ensuring that Commonwealth officers dealing with this matter are available to appear as witnesses before the committee? 
I should like to make a couple of comments on the remarks made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  First of all, he said that the equalisation scheme was a voluntary scheme. I do not think it is entirely a voluntary scheme because most of the manufacturers of dairy products in this country are, with one or two exceptions, signatories to the scheme. I have no desire to name the factories - the one in Queensland and the one or two which operate in Victoria - but 1 will say that they are cheese manufacturing concerns which are not signatories to the equalisation scheme. I am sorry that the honourable member is leaving the chamber because I was anxious to direct these remarks to him. The signatories to the equalisation scheme are part and parcel of it. Before signatories can withdraw they must give 6 months notice. As I have said, I disagree with the honourable member when he says that this is an entirely voluntary scheme. 
The purpose of the industry Bills that we are discussing tonight is to tighten and bolster the equalisation scheme. The honourable member referred to the referendum and cast gloom and doubts about it, but J would remind him that there was a referendum 35 years ago when the equalisation scheme got off the ground. On that occasion 49,000 producers voted for the equalisation scheme and 1,000 voted against it. In other words, 98% of the producers at that time voted in favour of equalisation. The honourable member pointed to my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who led for the Opposition in this debate, and referred to the dictatorial powers that could possibly be exercised under this legislation should the Opposition come to power. Of course, there are no dictatorial powers under this legislation that any government could use. The legislation is simply an attempt to buttress up the industry and for that reason we on this side of the House give the legislation our entire blessing. We are very pleased indeed to see it brought in. 
In effect the purposes of the Bills introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is to give statutory support to the Australian dairy industry's equalisation plan that has operated, as I indicated, from 1934. Under this plan all factories receive lbc same value for their butter and cheese irrespective of whether these products are sold in Australia or exported. The lower prices received on the export market are pooled with the higher returns from the home market :n Australia and a figure is struck by the Equalisation Committee. Then this is made available to the factories producing butter and cheese in this country. This equalisation plan is the greatest stabilising influence that we have in the industry. 
I do not intend al this hour of the night to go into the benefits of this great industry. It has a great decentralising influence on this country; a tremendous number of people in country towns depend upon it both directly and indirectly for a living; and has been of great benefit to the economy of this country in earning income from exports. For the $27m we spend on the industry we get over SI 00m in return by way of export earnings. In bookmakers language this is equivalent to odds of 3 to 1 . If a punter could lay out money on a horse knowing he could get these odds it certainly would be a good investment for h'm. As a national Parliament we should be happy to lay out money on a proposition like this. I am always pleased to support a bounty payment of some S27m because 1 know that this will result, as I indicated a moment ago, in a return of some 3 to 1 in export earnings for this country. 
Reference has been made to the plan submitted by the Council of Egg Marketing Author' ties of Australia. 1 understand that some 10 years ago an attempt was made by the industry leaders to bring some more stability to the industry by buttressing the equalisation plan that was introduced some 35 years ago. lt was only after the industry leaders had considered the implications of the CEMA plan and had' waited until they had seen the effects of the High Court challenges to CEMA that they realised that here was an opportunity to convince the Government that it had some opportunity for legislative machinery to carry out a scheme for the great dairy industry of this country. The success of the plan depends upon the I009f co-operation and particpalion of the manufacturers of dairy products throughout this country. As I indicated in reply to the honourable member for Macarthur who spoke before me in the debate, there are some sections which have not signed the plan. I also indicated that a provision allows a manufacturer to terminate his agreement by giving 6 months notice of his intention of withdrawing from the scheme. The matter at issue boils down to this: If any of the large manufacturers were to withdraw and to concentrate only on the home market to get the benefit of the h 'grier prices chaos would result in the industry. There can be no doubt that the incentive to break away from the present marketing arrangements for dairying products is now more pronounced than it has been at any other time in the history of the industry. 
The pool price for this year is S3S per cwt. The bounty is $5.58 per cwt and this will return $43.58 per cwt. The cost of production to factories will be subject lo a Commonwealth guarantee of 34c per lb. The simple fact is this: The poo! price has been falling over recent years because of the low prices being received overseas, lt has fallen from as much as $42 per cwt a few years ago to $38 per cwt this year. 1 refer the House to the thirty-fifth annual report and balance sheet of the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd for the year ended 30th June 1969. The equalisation rate for butter for past years is set out at page 6 of the report. In 1965 the rate per cwt was about S42. In 1966 it dropped to $40: in 1967 to S39; in 1968 to $39; in 1969 to $39; and in 1970 to $38, the lowest figure since 1952. 
This situation has been brought about by competition from the European Common Market countries and difficulties experienced in recent years in trying to sell butter overseas. I remember indicating in this chamber why in recent years there has been a tremendous increase in butter stocks held in 
Common Market countries, from about 100,000 tons in 1962 to about 300,000 tons now in cold storage. An estimate has been made that by 1975 the Common Market countries will hold a surplus of about 500.000 tons of butter in cold storage. This position has come about simply because the dairy industry in Common Market countries is heavily subsidised, lt has been able to increase production tremendously since 1961-62 to the extent that those countries now engage in dumping practices in most countries in the world. In the Middle East they have been offering commercial butter for 21 c per lb. This is well below the cost of production in Common Market countries and of course no Australian manufacturer could produce butter at that price. The Common Market countries have also been dumping butter in countries into which the Australian Dairy Produce Board has attempted to gain entry for our products. 
I pay a tribute to the Australian Dairy Produce Board and to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. CSIRO developed a process for reconstituted milk by mixing butler oil wilh sweetened condensed milk. The Australian Dairy Produce Board has been using that formula. Through use of old acquisition payments from World War II it has been able to sei up factories in South East Asia. For a while they were very profitable ventures for the Australian dairy industry. But nothing succeeds like success and imitation is lbc greatest form of flattery. The dairy industry in the Common Market countries has certainly imitated our advances in this field, lt was nol long before they made inroads into the South East Asian countries' dairy produce markets. They have now set up reconstituted milk factories in South East Asia and the buller oil they are using is one of the base ingredients for reconstituted milk. This is sent to South Fast As:in countries al give away prices. The ultimate product that comes from the milk powder and (he butter oil - the sweetened condensed milk - is very popular and a great money spinner in South East Asia. We find now thai the main constituent, hillier oil. is being pui into South East Asia by thc countries  from the Common Market at prices wilh which we cannot compete. 
So this indicates the reason why the equalisation rule for butler has been falling rapidly. It is because we have been unable to keep up the price of overseas butter in export markets. As has been pointed out already, we have to take the price we get overseas and pool this with the price we get on the home market and this has resulted in an ever decreasing rate for the full price. The bounty rate also has fallen and from the report of the Equalisation Committee we find that in 1952 the bounty rate on butter was a little over bil 2 per cwt. In 1953-54 it dropped to some SS and then S7 and for many years was running at S6. In 1970 the bounty rule for butler is S5.58 per cwt. The simple reason for this is thai we are over producing in this country. The production rate this year is some 220,000 tons of butter which has to be divided into the S27m bounty. This substantially reduces the amount of bounty available. 
As against this, the hulk home price for butter has been rather stationary and this year it is $53 per cwt. lt is almost SIO per cwt more than the pool and the bounty rate combined, lt must be pointed out that the bounty rate is only applicable to those who are prepared to participate in the equalisation pool and in years gone by this was an incentive to all manufacturers lo participate in equalisation. But as I have indicated. the fall in the full price because of the low prices overseas and in the bounty rate because of the increased production in this country has meant that the gup between the combined pool and bounty prices and the bulk home price has be.-n getting wider each year. Herein lies the difficulty with the industry, lt would only want one large manufacturer to break away and to take advantage of the higher home price and the whole structure of the industry would collapse. These Bills give the acquisition plan the necessary statutory hacking to provide for a stabilised industry. Any manufacturer who attempts to break away would now be brought hack in.o the scheme and would be required to pay any surplus over the full price back into the fund. lt has been called an excise: il has been called a tax. I do not care what il is called. I entirely support [he Government and I entirely .support the dairying industry in this matter. I know of a large chain store that has a great financial interest in a butler manufacturing plant and in a milk producing plant. If any of these large concerns attempt to break away now to take advantage of the home price market and say: We will forget about equalisation and we will embark on the home market entirely,* then the Government must be entirely backed up and the industry must be backed up to bring these people back into equalisation and to have the right of entry into these places and to be able to say to these concerns: 'You are forced back into equalisation and any money you have gained must come back into the pool.' 1 do not care whether the Government gives assistance by way of a bounty or by way of an excise, but it must do something or before long other large manufacturers will break away. This will result in a price cutting war throughout the country, which will cause absolute chaos in the industry. Before we know where we are the many people to whom I have referred in the towns and in the country - who are employed directly or indirectly in this great industry - will find themselves back to bedrock and the days prior to the time when the former Minister for Commerce and Agriculture in the Chifley Government,  Mr Reg  Pollard, was able to implement a dairy plan in 1947. The industry needs this stabilisation. With the supermarkets engaging in all kinds of price cutting and price war activities and attempting to hoodwink the people on all occasions, this statutory backing is required if the industry is to be protected. 
Ever since the disastrous local and export prices received for skimmed milk powder a couple of years ago, I have been an ardent advocate for an equalisation scheme for this dairy product. I was pleased to be advised by the industry leaders who were here this week that as from 1st July the major producers in Tasmania, Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia will enter such a scheme for skimmed milk powder. I think the manufacturers have learnt the lesson of a couple of years ago when there was a surplus. Victorian producers were peddling their skimmed milk powder in New South Wales and Queensland at about $10 a ton below the price prevailing for the local product in the northern States. The price for skimmed milk powder on world markets fell from $180 to $60 a ton. Even South 
American countries were dumping it in the United States at fantastically low prices. It is good to see that the price for skimmed milk powder on the Australian market and on the overseas market has taken an upward trend, lt is even more pleasing to see that while these high prices are being received the industry and the manufacturers are prepared to join an equalisation plan. 
These Bills will provide greater stability for a very important primary industry which is going through difficult times. I hope the farmers will carry the referendum to implement these measures. The Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill makes legislative arrangements for the referendum to be held to decide whether the various dairying industry Acts should be brought into operation. As I indicated when I replied to the honourable member for Macarthur, a similar referendum was last held 35 years ago when the equalisation plan was introduced. At that time 49,331 producers voted in favour of and 1,416 voted against equalisation as a buttress for the industry. That vote represented 97% in favour of equalisation. The referendum provided for in this Bill is important because the associated Bills cannot be implemented unless a simple majority of the votes cast at a poll of producers is in favour of giving statutory backing to the equalisation plan. Under the provisions of the Bills, an opportunity is provided for farmers to be provided with a properly documented case for and against the proposals. It does not matter how much scorn is heaped on this democratic process. If some group or organisation wants to put up another plan, I think it is entitled to do so. The Government has provided for this to be done. The pamphlets for and against the proposal will be sent out with each of the voting papers. From memory, the pamphlets are restricted to 2,000 words, presenting the case either for or against. Clause 8 (c) of the Referendum Bill states that a person is entitled to vote if he:  is the owner or one of the owners of cows that are kept wholly or partly for the purpose of the production of milk for supply to a butter factory, or to a cheese factory, in Australia. 
Butter and cheese factories throughout Australia will be required to supply details of suppliers during the past season who would bc eligible to vote. 
I was very interested to hear the arguments advanced earlier today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he introduced his Bill to reduce the voting age from 21 to 18 years. I am very disappointed to note that the Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill provides that suppliers of dairy products who are under 21 years of agc will not be able to exercise a vote. We have had the area or farm school system of education in country areas in Tasmania now for some 40 years. I know from experience that in many cases senior boys have commenced to gather up the nucleus of a dairy herd long before they have left school to take up farming. They have become established producers in their own right before reaching the age of 21. I think it is a shame that this stupid and archaic age bar of 21 years should be adhered to. After all, any person should be able to vote on a matter affecting his livelihood, providing of course he is a bona fide producer. 
It is obvious from the Government's attitude this morning that we have no hope at present of getting a reduction in the voting age to 18 years. So any result gained at the proposed referendum will of course not represent the views of all the producers in this country. However, I am confident that there will be overwhelming support from the farmers for these proposals. They have enjoyed the benefits of equalisation long enough to realise that any breakdown would be disastrous to them because without equalisation their financial returns would be substantially reduced. The importance of the dairy industry to decentralisation is something of which dairy farmers are keenly aware. They want orderly marketing and they want statutory backing for the equalisation proposals that have been in operation now for some 35 years. 
T want to say in conclusion that this legislation does nothing at all to reduce production. This is another matter which the Government must take up very soon, lt was referred to last night in the discussion on the $25m plan for restriction of the dairy industry. It has been referred to again tonight. I point out that these Bills do nothing at all to reduce production. If the Government now wants to do anything at all it must take steps to look after production, as it is doing in the wheal industry, in some form of equitable distribution so that the industry is protected on this side. too. All I say is that these Bills simply give statutory authority to the equalisation scheme which has been of tremendous benefit to the industry. I commend the dairy industry leaders who have promoted the proposals which are embodied in the legislation, and I warmly support the measures introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry. 

 Mr ROBINSON (Cowper) fi l.49 - I rise lo support the Bill. I believe it is in the best interests of the Australian wheat industry. lt has been very fully debated and 1 do not propose to traverse the ground that has been so adequately covered thus far. Suffice it for me to say that it is a precautionary measure, so far as New South Wales producers are concerned. They would have reason perhaps to imagine that given freedom to sell their production they could capture the more lucrative market. But the dangers of this are well known and well understood by the industry in New South Wales. In the very wide ranging debate both on this measure and on the farms amalgamation proposals which were dealt with yesterday the many problems of the industry have been well canvassed. I do not propose to reiterate them. It is clear that there is a need for this precautionary action because of the trend that is in evidence in some sections of the dairy industry. The possibility exists that substantial commercial interests could take control of a dairy factory and, as a consequence, break the agreements which at this stage are voluntary so far as equalisation is concerned. This is the reason for the legislation with which we are now dealing. Of necessity the industry has been protected. There is justification for the continuation of a situation where butter is not imported into this country. 
Many suggestions have been put forward from time to time that consumers would benefit if butter were allowed in, for example, from New Zealand. But this would spell doom for the Australian dairy industry and, in exactly the same way, if equalisation were to break down there could be a serious rift in the orderly marketing of Australian dairy produce in this country. I support the measure because not only is it logica and proper that this action should be taken, but also it is the view of the Australian Dairy Industry Council, the body which is recognised as the focal point of leadership of the Australian dairy industry. On behalf of the many dairy farmers in my electorate I express the view that this is a safeguard in the light of the possibilities that we foresee and in the light of the difficulties which we will encounter in the months ahead. I strongly support the measure and I hope the House will carry it with little further debate. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and also to members of the Government a request by many people who live on the west coast of Tasmania, and also many organisations in that area, for a transfer of this region from zone B to zone A for income tax concessions. Zonal concessions in respect of various areas were brought in 25 years ago. They are included in section 79a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Sub-section (1.) provides that for the purpose of granting to residents of the prescribed area an income tax concession in recognition of the disadvantages to which they are subject because of uncongenial climatic conditions, isolation and high cost of living in Zone A and, to a lesser extent, in Zone B certain deductions shall be allowed. 
I repeat that determination of the zoning of an area stems from 3 conditions - uncongenial climatic conditions, isolation and the high cost of living experienced in these areas. The west coast of Tasmania has enjoyed zone B concessions for some 25 years. Over the past 20 years various organisations, including the Tasmanian Labor Government, have been endeavouring to convince the Government of the need to transfer this area from zone fi to zone A. It is obvious that up till now we have had very little success in this regard. We have been unable to convince the Government of the disabilities in this area. Apparently they are not to be compared with the disabilities' of people living in zone A areas such as Mount Isa, the Northern Territory and the northern areas of Western Australia. Most of zone A consists of places where water is scarce and temperatures are high. T believe, on the other hand, that constant rainfall and low temperatures are a greater threat to health than the conditions experienced in those zone A areas. The average rainfall on the west coast of Tasmania varies from 120 inches at Lake Margaret to 80 inches a year at Rosebery. Low temperatures and high humidity mean that clothes are difficult to dry and moulds flourish. Lung and throat complaints mean a definite loss of labour to the mines and are serious enough to have caused the Commonwealth health authorities to check on the high incidence of hospital patients there compared with the rest of Australia. 
Labour is attracted by high pay and bonuses, but because of the unsuitable climate, the high cost of living and isolation, men are quick to leave even though it means a drop in wages. The turnover of the labour forces is about 50%. I doubt whether employers in zone A areas can show a greater turnover. I cannot stress too much that a turnover of labour like that must be a true indication of the unfavourable conditions under which people on the west coast of Tasmania live. If people will not stay in the area despite the high wages then it must be because of the disadvantages for which the zone allowance is paid. This means that these disadvantages are present in a high and marked degree. 
Isolation is less a problem that it was before, but only because good roads have been built. However, roads can be blocked by snow falls, rock falls, fog or mist. Mail can take up to 2 days to get to and from Hobart. The high cost of living is a fact of life on the west coast of Tasmania. The long roads through uninhabited areas cause the whole burden of the transport cost to fall on the towns of the west coast. This cost is increased by a transport zone tax which effectively cuts off the west coast from the north-west coast. Grocery items are from 5c to 10c higher per article than the same goods in Burnie. The 10,000 people in the area must be given some incentive to stay longer. A more stable work force would allow expansion within the area, which in turn would mean better amenities and higher economic returns by the businesses in the area. It is important for the economy of Tasmania that the mining, forestry and fishing sections of the west coast should receive all possible assistance to allow for efficient utilisation of their assets and to give sufficient incentive to continue opening up this area. 
Wide areas of the west coast south of Queenstown are uninhabited and open to prospectors only during the dry months. They have never been properly explored or prospected. There are few areas anywhere in Australia which are as little known and as little prospected as this area. The incentive of a zone A allowance might well trigger a movement which would allow all the west coast of Tasmania to be utilised economically. There seems little doubt that the zone B allowance is not sufficient to cover the climatic disabilities of the west coast, although perhaps the high cost of living and the isolation are not comparable with those in zone A areas on the mainland, lt is an exciting prospect that the mining, fishing and timber cutting industries could be given sufficient incentive to make labour more freely available, which in turn would open up more land on a permanent basis and create new fishing ports with the hope that farming would gradually increase as the mines depleted their mineral assets. 
It seems that the zone allowance is an allowance to encourage the opening up of new areas. When introducing the original Bill in this place in 1945  Mr Chifley  indicated that this scheme was designed to offer people some kind of inducement to establish themselves in the remote areas of Australia. The Tasmanian Government in recent years has done a lot to open up the West Coast with its improvements of old roads and the building of new roads. Roads alone will not make this a popular place in which to live. A tax incentive, such as a zone A allowance will assist and should lead finally to the recoupment of tax lost, plus the permanent profit of an increase in population and a corresponding increase in the wealth of Tasmania as well as corresponding benefits to Australia as a whole. 
In support of this argument for the transfer of the West Coast area of Tasmania from a zone B allowance to a zone A allowance, I refer also to the award banded down by  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson in relation to the gold and metalliferous mining industry. At page 11 of the document in which this matter is set out.  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson takes note of the disabilities under which the people who live in this area work, or refers, at least, to a certain predominant work force in the area. He was required to inquire into this work in the mining fields on the whole of the West Coast area. He introduced a special industry allowance as a compensatory factor to .those people. I quote briefly from the award made by  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson in relation to the gold and metalliferous mining industry. He said: 
The Commission has decided to include in the total wages and not as a separately identifiable amount compensation for all the circumstances in which the work is performed. This compensation has been designed on an averaging basis to cover all of the common incidents of working in mining areas, some of which are isolation, somewhat limited medical and dental and hospital facilities, limited secondary education facilities, higher cost of goods and services, climatic conditions and healing costs, limited entertainment facilities and limited shopping facilities ....  1 maintain that these are the requirements which the Income Tax Assessment Act lays down for any area of Australia to qualify for a zone allowance classification. In particular, if these matters are recognised by  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson in granting this award, we maintain that they should be recognised by the Government in the transfer of this area from a zone B allowance classification to a zone A allowance classification. The award for this industry has a special loading to compensate these people for isolation, the high cost of living, limited educational facilities and so on. This award applies only to miners working in the mines on the West Coast of Tasmania. Some recognition by the Government of this special area would be necessary because many other forms of employment in the professional field, semi professional field, shop keepers and various related services that go to make this area an economic community are to be found there. 
So, I do bring to the notice of the Treasurer and the Federal Government this morning the latest request made by the many people and by the many organisations on the West Coast of Tasmania - an area in my electorate - for the transfer of this section of Australia from a zone B allowance classification to a zone A allowance classification. I ask also that consideration be given by the Government to the inclusion of King Island, which lies halfway between Tasmania and Victoria and which suffers much the same dis abilities as those which I have outlined concerning the West Coast of Tasmania, among those areas that receive this taxation concession. 
1 second the amendment. I would suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this would be a convenient time at which to suspend the sitting. 
Sitting suspended from  12.58 to 2 p.m. 

 Mr DAVIES Prior to the suspension of the sitting we heard a very constructive speech from the honourable member for Dawson on war service land settlement and closer settlement generally. He referred to the early mistakes and the effects of those mistakes on the war service land settlement scheme and compared this policy with the brigalow scheme. The initial planning of the brigalow development areas was correctly carried out before the settlers went on to the blocks. Of course it makes a tremendous difference when proper planning is carried out. While the honourable member was speaking I was thinking to myself that we had this type of problem on King Island where the earlier settlements at Pegarah were in a very rough state when the settlers first went there. When the settlement authorities went north to Reekara they had learnt to benefit by their mistakes, and the properties were reasonably well developed for the settlers to go on. 
This of course leaves us with a problem, and I intend to develop this later in my speech. I would like now to relate this problem to the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson. Immediately after the war, because of pressure from the Returned Services League bodies, other local organisations and men who had come back from the war and were anxious to get on to settlement blocks, the settlement authorities were inclined to let them go on to these areas before they were fully developed and ready for the settler. We know in our own case how the settlement authorities approached the settlers and practically gave them unlimited advances for improvements to the properties. These should have been carried out by the settlement authorities before the settlers were allowed to go on to the blocks. We find now that these unlimited advances are a rope around the neck of the settlers when they come to settling up, when they are anxious to get the option price and to find out what they owe the settlement authorities in order to gain ownership nf the property. I will refer to some cases in which these people have received tremendous bills :n relation to these advances. The responsibility should not really belong to the settler; it should be wholly and solely the responsibility of the settlement authorities, because after all they are the people who made the mistake of allowing these people to go on to the blocks well before the blocks were properly developed. 
This brings up another very interesting facet to which the honourable member for Dawson referred, and that is the need for equity for the settlers in these properties. Of course it is only too true that this is one of the great problems that is causing a lot of confusion and a lot of mental anxiety to settlers in my area. It is true, as the honourable member for Dawson said, that T have lived with this problem now for a decade or some 12 years. These settlers are in rather isolated areas. It is remarkable that when a senator is first elected or a member is first elected to a State house of parliament he is keen to go to these people and tell them that he intends to carry on with great crusading zeal to put everything right in these areas. But soldier settlement becomes a political hot potato before long and it is dropped. These people in the settlements have very few friends in State Parliaments or in Federal Parliament to advance their arguments. 
At the outset I must pay tribute to the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  When he was Minister for Primary Industry and in charge of war service land settlement, he came to King Island on 2 occasions. The people there always speak with a great deal of affection for him because he realised the problems that were there. He made an advance of f 750,000 for redevelopment and an advance of £750,000 for write-offs to assist these people and to try to correct the mistakes that had been made earlier by the settlement authorities. This amounted to some $3m in today's currency, lt was a very good shot in the arm for these people and a good attempt to correct the earlier mistakes and to get the settlement of this area back on to its feel. Of course, this has flowed over into other settlements and redevelopment was carried out under the jurisdiction of the then Minister for Primary Industry. So when speaking on matters of war service land settlement 1 always like to pay a tribute to him for the work that he did, the knowledge that he had, and the sympathetic attitude with which he approached the problems of these people. 1 supported the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson, the terms of which are as follows: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Select Committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to form guidelines for any future land settlement scheme. 
We have been seeking such an inquiry for a long time because we believe that it will give us the guidelines for any large scale land development undertaken by the Government in the future. More importantly, as it pertains to the present it will provide us with a formula and a determination to wind up the present scheme, making sure that the settlers involved receive their just entitlements for the work they have done on their farms. An inquiry would answer many questions that have been concerning us for years, and I intend to pose some of these questions during this debate on the Bill before the House to provide additional funds for war service land settlement. This Government has persistently stalled off all requests for an inquiry. The State Congress of the Returned Services League and then the National Congress and later the National Executive of the RSL sought a royal commission into all aspects of war service land settlement. This was refused in the first instance by the then Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for Fisher, and then by the former Prime Minister, the late  Mr Harold  Holt. This refusal has been confirmed by the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The late  Mr Harold  Holt advised us that Cabinet had rejected the request for the royal commission, but, as 1 have pointed out before, wc find this difficult to follow because a  Mr Peter  Ireland reported to the annual meeting of the RSL in February 1968 that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  who was at that time a senator and a senior Cabinet Minister in the Holt Government, had advised a Liberal Party meeting at Launceston that he had never heard of any discussion in Cabinet for a possible royal commission into war service land settlement. 
The RSL has not dropped this issue. At its State Congress held on 30th May last year in Devonport it carried unanimously a vote of no confidence in the present Minister for Primary Industry for his handling of his Department. I sometimes feel sorry for him because he inherited the whole sorry mess from the right honourable member for Fisher, who previously had inherited it from the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes).  The honourable member for Chisholm, when he was in charge of war service land settlement, said when introducing a Bill such as this in 1954 that the scheme would end in 5 years. An inquiry such as we seek would tell us why this prediction that the scheme would end in 1959 was wrong and what were the circumstances and conditions that have prolonged the agony for the further 1 1 years to date. Last year the Senate carried a motion for an inquiry. It was moved by  Senator Drury  on 11th September last year as an amendment to the 
Repatriation Department estimates, it sought an inquiry into the operation and inadequacy of the War Service Land Settlements Act. 1 repeat that the motion was carried by the Senate but the inquiry has never been instituted by this Government. The Legislative Council of Tasmania has set up a select committee to inquire into war service land settlement. At present this committee is actively engaged in taking evidence. It has been to many of the settlement areas in my electorate; it has been to King Island. It has taken evidence in several other parts of Tasmania as well. 
Not yet, my friend. The terms of reference for the Tasmanian committee are as follows: 
The administration o£ war service land settlement in relation to the amount of rent and other commitments demanded from settlers and the option of purchase price of properties. 
The responsibility for, and the basis upon which option prices should bc determined. 
Whether the basis of fixing option prices preserves sufficient equity to settlers having regard to the  effluction  of time since holdings were occupied. 
Any other matters incidental to the above terms of reference. 
The  chairman  of the Committee, the  Hon.  C. B. M. Fenton. M.L.C., arranged to visit the other 2 agent States, South Australia and Western Australia, recently because he was naturally keen to obtain some first hand information on war service land settlement in those States. Tasmanian parliamentary officials made the necessary appointments for him in Adelaide and Perth. When he arrived in Perth the official representing war service land settlement in that State telephoned  Mr Fenton  the night before the interview was to take place to say that the Crown Law Department had instructed him not to discuss ::ny matters with  Mr Fenton. 
When 1 questioned the Minister for Primary Industry about this refusal to cooperate he indicated by way of a subsequent letter to me, for which 1 thank him, that at the time of the proposed interview in Perth he had not received certain legal advice. This is very strange indeed. I cannot quite comprehend it because the Perth official said that he was under instructions from the Crown Law Department. The Minister in his letter said that this official was a temporary officer. The answer stated: 
Whilst this officer is very comp.'tail in the work required of him, he would not he in a position to comment on the policy determined for the War Service Land Settlement scheme anil it would be unfair bo.h to the officer and the Committee to expect him to give evidence. 
It is nol for the Crown Law Department to determine whether he is competent to give evidence.  Mr Fenton  made it quite clear in arranging for the discussion in Perth that the gentleman was not required to give any evidence as referred to in the Ministers letter. He was simply to have some discussion with  Mr Fenton.  We were quite upset when the official in Western Australia informed the  chairman  of the Tasmanian committee that under instructions from the Crown Law Department he was not even to see  Mr Fenton.  I am pleased to note in this letter of 21st May that the Minister is prepared to make an officer of his Department available to give evidence to the Tasmania parliamentary committee. I hope the Minister for Primary Industry will see that his departmental officers are prepared to give all the evidence which the Tasmanian committee requires. I fail to see why any evidence which this committee requires should be withheld for any reason. I think the Commonwealth should co-operate with the State people. (A disturbance occurring in the public gallery) - 
My question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport is supplementary to that asked of him by my colleague, the honourable member for Bass. The Minister will recall that losses incurred on the Darwin run and on our entry into the overseas trade are clearly indicated in the last annual report of the Australian National Line. Will the Minister inform the House of the profits made by the Australian National Line on the roll-on roll-off services between Melbourne and northern Tasmanian ports which offset the losses to which I have referred and resulted in an overall profit for the Australian National Line of some $lm? 
The Opposition supports the 5 measures. I would like to direct my remarks to the Pyrites Bounty Bill and the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill. The Tariff Board has completed its investigation into sulphur bearing materials and has presented its report to the Government. The Government now seeks time to consider the report, and for that reason the Bills before us seek to extend the operation of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Act 1954-1969 and the Pyrites Bounty Act 1960-1969 for a further 6 months The investigation just completed by the Tariff Board into sulphur bearing materials is one of many that the Tariff Board has conducted into this subject. The Government on this occasion specified 2 references to the Board. One was to ascertain how the Government could best fulfil or discharge its obligations to the industry which installed capacity for the production of sulphur bearing materials of an Australian origin or for the production of acid from Australian materials. Secondly, the Tariff Board was asked to ascertain whether the Government should continue to assist the industry to use Australian materials. 
As I indicated, the Board has submitted its report and the Government is considering it. In this consideration I appeal to the Government to bear in mind the outstanding obligation that it has to assist and to protect the industry, an undertaking that was given in the early 1950s. At that time there was a world shortage of sulphur. We could run into this problem again, because from my knowledge from talking with experts it is most unlikely that any large deposits of sulphur will be found in this country. When Australia was faced with a world shortage in 1950 the Government realised that the industry that undertook the manufacture of acid from local materials, namely pyrites, would be faced with high capital expenditure because of the cost structure of pyritic plants as against the cost structure of brimstone plants, so it introduced the bounty system. 
I want to point out that I am firmly convinced that the Government did the right thing in 1950 in encouraging the production of acid from the locally produced pyrites because of the tremendous importance to this country of the fertiliser industry. It is from the acid that we manufacture the fertilisers that are used as the backbone of primary industry. When the bounty system was introduced in the 1950s the export earnings from the primary industry section constituted about 80 per cent of the total export earnings of this country. So it was extremely important that the fertiliser industry be maintained and that the raw material be available for this purpose. 
Practically anything you care to name has at some stage come into contact with sulphuric acid. It is a widely used product. Its compounds may be seen in so many industrial processes in this country. The Government has recognised that it has an obligation to assist those organisations which co-operated with it and used pyrites for the manufacture of sulphuric acid. I recall that in 1953 this Government subsidised on a £1 for £1 basis the construction of a jetty and conveyor equipment at Strahan on the west coast of Tasmania to assist the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. to export pyrites to Melbourne where it was used by the Commonwealth fertiliser plant for the manufacture of fertiliser. In 1959 there was a change of policy by the Government. The Government must recognise that industrial concerns which co-operated with it to ensure that Australia had ample supplies of acid manufactured from indigenous materials when there was a world shortage of brimstone were involved in heavy capital outlay and high operating costs. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to the Tariff Board's report of 31st August 1967 about high operating costs. The Board points out that the capital cost of a pyritic acid plant is more than twice that of a brimstone plant of the same capacity. Operating costs of a pyritic acid plant are three or four times as high as those of a brimstone plant. The total cost of producing acid from pyrites is much higher than the comparable cost of producing acid from brimstone. In addition, the brimstone process is cleaner and the life of the brimstone plant longer than that of the plant burning pyrites. This is borne out by the attitude of the Commissioner of Taxation, who allows a 10 per cent depreciation rate on a pyritic plant but only a  7i  per cent depreciation rate on a plant using imported brimstone. 
Notwithstanding its change of policy in 1959. the Government has continued to recognise that it has an obligation to those concerns which co-operated with its former policy and has paid a bounty on pyrites and on sulphuric acid produced from pyrites and sold in Australia. In reviewing the Tariff Board's latest report the Government must now decide how best it can discharge its obligation. Some mining companies have been unable to compete with low cost imported brimstone and have lost their markets. In their case the Tariff Board has recommended the payment of compensation, and this has been done. 
Some $385,000 has been paid to Norseman Gold Mines Pty Ltd and $28,000 to Mount Morgan Ltd. In considering the situation of those mines still producing pyrites and those plants producing acid from Australian pyrites I urge the Government to be guided by the recommendations of the Tariff Board in 1967 and by the Board's comments about the life of plants. I refer again to the 1967 report on sulphur bearing materials and to that section of the report which deals with the Government's obligation. The report reads:  to setting the period of obligation lnc Board is of the opinion that 20 years would be reasonable. According to witnesses, this is about the average life of a pyrites plant wilh normal maintenance. In selecting the period of 20 years the Board is mindful that the Government has never committed itself as to the duration of its obligation to the industry. However, assuming that the Government accepts that it has an obligation for this period, the Board suggests that it commence from 1954-1955. when most production commenced under the scheme of encouragement. This would mean that the Government's obligation still has 7 years to run, i.e. until 1974. 
The Board has had the advantage of a detailed analysis of the industry. 1 can only hope that in considering the Board's recommendations in relation to the current review of the industry the Government will accept the recommendation that it has an obligation at least until 1974 and will extend the bounty provisions for at least another 4 years. The Government is also considering whether it should continue to assist those companies using Australian raw materials. There is no doubt that the Government has a national responsibility to do this. In my opinion and in the opinion of many other people the Government should continue  to  assist those concerns using indigenous raw materials. There is always the possibility that supplies from overseas could be held up by war or other stresses. We do not want to see this country held to ransom because of a world shortage of sulphur. If this were to happen the fertiliser industry, which is vital to our primary industries and to many other industries which use sulphuric acid in large quantities, would be seriously affected. 
The saving of foreign exchange by the use of indigenous raw materials is another matter worthy of consideration. In 1963 the cost of imports was running at about $4m a year. That cost increased five-fold by 1968, when we were paying about $2 1.5m a year to import sulphur. The demand for sulphur is increasing and will continue to increase rapidly. Experts predict that by 1975 we will have to import almost twice as much sulphur as we import today. In other words, our imports could amount to 900,000 tons a year, which would cost this country $50m at current landed costs. The Government must take this factor into consideration when it considers whether it should support the industry, particularly those sections of it which use indigenous materials. 
I am very proud of a plant that has been established in my area. I refer to North West Acid Pty Ltd at Burnie. I think this is the first acid producing plant to come into operation in Australia since the establishment of a plant in South Australia in 1954. The Burnie plant commenced operations on 1st May last. The Government cannot disregard the importance to Australia of such a plant, which over its estimated life of 15 years will save this country between $70m and $11 Om in foreign exchange. So that alone is worthy of some support from the Government. 
We give a bounty of some $27m to the dairying industry, and I support it. The direct earnings to this country from the dairying industry are about $104m. So the ratio is about 3 to 1: For every $1 we spend on the dairying industry we receive $3 in overseas earnings. By supporting plants like North West Acid Ltd we can save this country over a lifespan of some 15 years estimated foreign exchange earnings of between $70m and Si 10m. I think that this is a worthwhile investment and should be looked at by the Government in the same manner as it looks upon the bounty which is paid to the dairying industry. This plant has also been of great economic importance to the north west and the west coast of Tasmania. It has assisted in the policy of decentralisation and brought some economic value to these areas. It is now using by-products from mining operations which in recent years unfortunately have not been used, lt is good to see them now being put to use. 
Until the construction of the jetty under the Government's policy of the 1950s, we used to send some 70,000 tons of pyrites through the port of Strahan to Melbourne. 
When the plant was changed to a brimstone burning plant our export of pyrites fell away and they just became an unsightly heap alongside the mine. But now the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. has entered into an arrangement with the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd at Rosebery, and each of these companies supplies 150,000 tons of pyrites - a total of 300,000 tons - for the manufacture of sulphuric acid at Burnie. From this we are producing some 420,000 tons of acid a year. 
I  mention the economic importance of these operations to this area because the railway line which runs from Melba Siding near Zeehan through Rosebery and Guilford Junction to Burnie had to be reconstructed and rehabilitated. This meant a great deal of new work for the people in this area. The capital cost of constructing the acid plant at Burnie was Si 4m. This plant employs 100 men full time. Apart from that, one must take into consideration all those employed indirectly  in  the operations of this plant. A greater number of men had to be employed in the handling of the pyrites at the mines at Queenstown and at Rosebery. Then there arc the transport workers who convey the pyrites from the Queenstown mine some 20-odd miles across to the railhead at Melba Siding. This, of course, keeps the railway fettlers and maintenance men employed. 
Because we gather only about 50 per cent sulphur from the ore, it will be appreciated that from 300,000 tons of ore there is a vast amount of material which is of no use in the plant and for which no use has been found. This has to be taken some 6 miles out to sea and disposed of. So all of these employees are engaged in various aspects of the work associated with the manufacture of the acid itself. I believe that plants such as North West Acid Ltd are performing a job of great national importance. I sincerely hope that the Government, in its review and consideration of this matter, will agree to the request made by this industry for a bounty. It has requested a bounty of 22c a ton of acid for every $1 by which the price of imported sulphur falls below S28 a ton f.o.b. gulf ports in the United States. The wellbeing of the North West Acid Ltd plant is hinged on the price of imported sulphur remaining at S28 per ton f.o.b. If the overseas price falls below S28 we will be in trouble. I appeal to the Government in its present review to extend the bounty to the lower rate. 
The price of overseas sulphur is subject to violent fluctuations. Today it is $21 f.o.b. American  ports,  and it is at this price that the bounty is urgently required. We know from past experience that when the overseas price falls, as it has done recently to $21, marginal producing mines in America close down temporarily, causing a shortage and a consequent rise in prices. This manipulation by overseas mining interests must result in instability in the Australian industry, from the point of view both of those mines producing pyrites and of those industrial concerns producing sulphuric acid from Australian pyrites. 
I hold that it is the duty of the Commonwealth Government to take whatever steps are available to it in ensuring the stability of industries set up in the national interest and using Australian raw materials. Accordingly, I appeal to the Minister to recognise that the Government is under an obligation to extend the bounty provisions for at least another 4 years and at the same time to provide for bounty at the lower rates in order to protect this vital Australian industry which uses indigenous materials. As I have already indicated, the provision of the bounty will save foreign exchange, allow for economic development in various parts of this country, and reduce our dependence on vital overseas supplies in time of war or other stresses and so ensure supplies of acid for fertiliser and other industrial uses. I sincerely hope that when the Tariff Board report has been considered by the Government and is presented to Parliament it will provide for continued assistance, not only in regard to pyrites but also for the manufacture of sulphuric acid from pyrites sold in Australia. I hope the Government will consider this report sympathetically, bearing in mind the great importance of the industry as I have outlined it this afternoon. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Government is withholding approval for the construction of port facilities at Stanley and on King Island until a decision is given by the Federal Government on the location of a deep water port of King Island? Further, is the Minister aware that a contract has been signed and the keel laid for the vessel to operate from these ports, the construction being undertaken at the Cairns shipyard in northern Queensland? Will the Minister give urgent consideration to the 2 reports submitted by MacDonald, Wagner and Priddle and Maunsell and Partners so that port installations can be commenced and completed for the vessel to operate the triangular Stanley-King Island-Melbourne service as from next September? Is the Minister in a position to advise me of the Government's decision in this matter? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. 1 refer to the fact that we have 6 meat processing companies in Tasmania amongst the 26 that the Minister mentioned last week as having lost their export licences. Is the Minister aware that one exporter has had to dismiss 20 skilled personnel and has been left with a consignment of $88,000 worth of beef in cold  storage?  Is he aware also that the ship .'Port Burnie' has been cancelled and that we are without shipping space not only for meat but for valuable export consignments of butter oil and casein? Is the Minister aware that a  Dr  Meisner  of the United States of America has been crawling around on his hands and knees with a torch at 6 o'clock in the morning trying to find some fault with plants on which thousands of dollars were spent earlier this year to meet American requirements? Does the Minister see this latest development as a backyard method of imposing further quotas on Australian meat exports to the United States of America? Will he arrange for one of his senior officers to go to Tasmania as early as possible on the lines of a visit made to meat processing works in Western Australia in an endeavour to have licences restored, export markets restored and jobs restored to personnel? 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who has just resumed his seat, denied the claims by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  that there was chaos from Darwin to Devonport. All I say to the honourable gentleman is that I am sorry that he cannot catch a plane and get to Devonport today where 20 more people have been paid off by S. P. Holman and Sons Pty Ltd, bringing the total paid off to three-quarters of those employed at that meat exporters' works. I am sorry that the honourable member cannot stand out there in front of the meatworks and tell the workers that there is no chaos, that the Government is doing everything possible and that it knows exactly what standards are laid down by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  There are no set standards. I am very concerned at the varying and ambiguous standards imposed and the huge outlay of money that has to be met by meat processing companies to bring their works up to the required standard. 1 wish to lodge a protest in respect of the time allowed for this debate. Normally 2 hours is provided for the discussion of a matter of public importance. But in this debate we are limited to 50 minutes. 1 think that it is scandalous that the Government is allowing us only 50 minutes in which to debate this important subject. Speaking on behalf of my constituents, I am limited to 5 minutes. I think that this is a scandal in the Parliament. Because of the time limit, I must hurry on. 
I will speak about 1 meatworks to verify this point about the ambiguous reports about which the honourable member for Gwydir so smugly smiled. I have 3 reports here. The first is of an inspection carried out on 16th January. The report was made on 20th January. All the defects had been effectively remedied subsequently by the meatworks. I have another one. It relates to the same meatworks. It relates to an inspection by different officers with different standards. The inspections were carried on 12th and 13th March. The report was made to the meatworks on 27th April. Everything required to be remedied by the report was carried out with the exception of 1 thing. Reference was made to '"insufficient pavement'. With the wet winter, the laying of the bitumen was held up. That is natural enough. I turn now to the third report. This was an inspection early in August by a  Dr Meisner.  I have not time to tell the House more about his attitude to meatworks in Tasmania when he went there to inspect them.  His  report came on 28th August. 
The result was that the company lost its United States of America meat licence. Here it is. The meat was inspected by the meat inspectors. Certificates were given by this Government and the meat paid for. Those certificates are recognised by this Government. The inspectors were carrying out the policy of this Government with regard to meat inspection. The consignment of 112 tons of beef to the United States was cancelled. It was out of the cold store on the wharf. Everything was ready to go onto the ship and then so the United States. The result of the cancellation was a loss of $80,000. The premises were inspected by officers of this Government. This is the usual practise. Premises are inspected first thing in the morning before people are allowed te start work by a veterinarian and 3 meat inspectors. As they go around the works, if they see anything wrong - for instance, if the cleaning from the day before is not up to their standard - a tab is put on the works and it cannot start work until all defects have been cleaned up. Until this is done, the works is not allowed to start processing. When this is done, the meat inspectors and the veterinarian stay with the meat right through the whole of the operation. They watch it and they inspect it all along the line. Following that, the stamp of approval from this Government is put on the meat. The meat goes into the cold store ready for export. The Government has an obligation to accept a responsibility in this field. It lays down the standards, lt pays the people who carry out inspections. The Government must accept its responsibility to see that this meat is able to be disposed of on other export markets. 
Let me point out what has happened. When this company lost its licence from 1st September,  Senator Lillico  and myself, together with the Federal Council of the Australian Meat Exporters Association, asked the Minister for Primary Industry whether he would send down a team for re-inspection. He sent a team down. He arranged to send them down for the reinspection on Friday, 2nd October. The Press reported on 1st October that the reinspection was to be made. The Minister said: 'Veterinarians of the Department of Primary Industry from Hobart and Canberra will make a further inspection of the plant tomorrow'. 
Let me illustrate how the sympathy of the Department comes into this matter! Just look at what happened. These people arrived in Tasmania. I am paraphrasing a report from the Hobart 'Mercury*. These inspectors arrived at the request of the Minister for Primary Industry to make a re-inspection. They arrived at about half past 6. They were making their inspection. Some officer sent a telegram putting a blanket ban on the works for meat for all destinations. This was a ban on meat for export to not only the United Kingdom or the United States of America but also all destinations. While the departmental reinspection was taking place at the request of the Minister, an officer of the Department in Canberra sent down a telegram putting a blanket ban on the whole of the works. I want to know what should the Minister do. If I were the Minister I would sack this man, because he acted before he even had the chance to get the report back from the investigating officers who were in the plant. When the man realised he had made a mistake, to cover up he sent a telegram of more than 400 words down to the plant listing more and more defects. This was the fourth time in 12 months that this had happened. The people who operate the plant had no idea of these defects and, as yet, have not received a letter. They have received only a tlegram of 400 words to cover up for the fact that an officer beat the Minister to the punch as far as the reinspection was concerned. 
It is important to note that the telegram implies that the British were likely to impose a ban on the meat, too.  Senator Lillico,  Federal exporters and I were very alarmed and concerned at this, because it meant the dismissal of 75 employees and the effect on the economy of Devonport and the surrounding districts was serious. It meant the loss of $150,000 worth of meat in cold stores ready for shipment and it meant a fall in return to our primary producers because the bottom dropped out of the market. Press reports will indicate just what the effect on the stock producers in my area was. The Minister was in Fiji. We realised the matter was urgent, so yesterday we telephoned  Mr Potts  who was at a meeting of the Australian Meat Board in Sydney. We asked him, as we asked the Minister, whether there was any chance of interceding with the British Authorities to try to get the British blanket ban taken off, too.  Mr Potts  said: 'Nothing in the foreseeable future.' 
This company is facing financial ruin, with $150,000 worth of meat on the wharves, and fellows are losing their jobs. So we went across to the British High Commission yesterday, and what did we find? Something altogether different. We were told that the British authorities will take our meat if it is passed by our inspectors. I want to know why this  Mr Potts  did not tell us that; I want to know why the Minister did not tell me this when he sent a telegram down to my Burnie office yesterday; I also want to know why  Senator Lillico  and I were hoodwinked in the Minister's office some months ago when we were told that the British had the same standards as the Americans, when the British High Commission told us yesterday that they will take this meat if it is passed by our inspectors. I want to know why the Minister does not stand by these people in Devonport and other parts of Tasmania where there are qualified veterinarians and 3 meat inspectors who, as I said, have gone around hours before the works begin to operate to make sure that they are passed for operations during Hie day. Once that is done they turn around and go into the works. They watch the killing right through and set the seal on it. This is the seal of approval of the Government. These people have been trained by the Government; they are okayed and passed by it. 
I maintain that the Government has an obligation to those 74 or so men who lost their jobs. It has an obligation to this company which is facing financial ruin with $150,000 worth of meat on the wharves. It has a financial obligation to compensate this company for the charges involved in the cool stores. It has an obligation now to say to the British authorities: 'AH right. We will lift any bans that we imposed on it and let it go'. I have never seen, a greater scandal in my 12 years in this House. 1 think it is absolutely scandalous. I think it calls for a complete inquiry right through. The Minister must clean out the lines of communication. There is something wrong in his Department. He had the hide to stand up and say that he was sympathetic and all this type of nonsense. What tommyrot. The Minister ought to read through the reports and the matters of conflict mentioned by my friend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
Just to complete the matter to show how stupid they are: One lot of inspectors will come in and say: 'Oh, this is a condemned room. It has to be locked up.' The next lot will come in 2 months later and demand to know why it is not unlocked. There is this conflict all the time which goes on between inspection and inspection. What is wanted, as my friend the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said, are the varying circumstances- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In discussing the estimates of the Department of Shipping and Transport I should like, first, to ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  what was the cost to the Commonwealth of the report by MacDonald, Wagner and Priddle. He will be aware that the Commonwealth Government and the Tasmanian Government undertook this survey on a $1 for $1 basis up to a cost of $100,000. I merely seek details of costs now. I have no time to engage in a detailed criticism of the report because of the time factor. I am pleased that the Peko-Wallsend group brought in Maunsell and Partners who recommended Grassy as the port for King Island. I know that the Minister is interested in this matter because he visited King Island to inspect the possible sites. I inspected the work during last weekend and I am sure that the Minister will be happy to know that the access roads from the mine complex to the sea shore have been completed and that from this point the breakwater, which will extend about 6,600 feet from the shore to Grassy Island, is half completed. Overburden is being dumped into 50 feet of water but the work will soon be out of this depth and into the shallower water leading to the island. The company has spent well in excess of $500,000 on trucks and earth moving equipment and up to date 670,000 tons of overburden have been used on the breakwater alone. This will make an ideal allweather port and I can only hope that the Tasmanian Government is aware of the fact that the introduction of the triangular service linking Stanley, King Island and Melbourne will be a tremendous boon to both the far north west of Tasmania and to King Island. On behalf of the people in these areas I trust that the Tasmanian Government will take over the installations at Grassy and give approval for Stanley to proceed with its port facilities to take the new roll on, roll off vessel which is presently under construction at Cairns in north Queensland for R. H. Houfe &amp; Co. 
I turn now to consideration of the Australian National Line and the 12i per cent freight increase imposed on the Tasmanian trade since 1st August this year. I am very proud of the Australian National Line and of the work it has done in providing ferry services to Tasmania over the years, but I want the Minister to be quite certain that as a Tasmanian 1 will continue to press for the figures for the Tasmanian services to be separated in the financial accounts. I have never known Tasmania people - from all walks of life and of varying political opinions - to be so united as they were in the outcry at and protest against the recent  I2i  per cent increase in freight rates. They will never be satisfied until a breakup of the loss of $210,612 on the coastal trade, as shown in the annual report of the Australian National Line recently tabled in this House, clearly indicates how much of this is due to losses on the Darwin run, on the run to north Queensland or on the Tasmanian run. 
Tasmania maintains that it is deserving of special consideration as a full partner of the Commonwealth because the sea link is our only link with the mainland, especially also when it is realised that the Commonwealth has given grants of over $200m for beef roads and rail standardisation to assist transport between the mainland States. I ask the Minister - I would like to have the answer in this debate - whether he has yet reached a decision on the request of the Tasmanian port authorities to separate the port charges from the sea leg charges for services operated across Bass Strait. The Minister will be aware that the request was made following his suggestion that the sea freight rate had risen partly because of increased wharf charges. In reply to a question on 19th August, the Minister said, amongst other things: 
In only the past few years increases in wharfage dues levied by port authorities on both sides of Bass Strait which mean an additional 13c per 40 cubic feet have been absorbed by the ANL. 
In fairness to the Tasmanian port authorities, I must point out that there has been a reduction of $0,225 in the charges levied at the 3 Bass Strait ports of Devonport, Burnie and Launceston. When the freight rate, which combines the wharf charges and the sea leg charges, was set in 1961 by the ANL, for Devonport the wharfage charges a ton then were: Import, $1.68; export $1. These were reduced in 1966 to the following amounts: Import, $1.50; export, 60c. In 1968 export wharfage charges were increased by 15c to bring them into line with Burnie. So now the charges a ton at Devonport are: Import, $1.50; export 75c. So we have an overall reduction of 18c a ton in import charges and 25c a ton in export charges. Since 1961 wharfage charges in Launceston have been reduced by 5 per cent and have been increased in Burnie by 5 per cent. All this means a reduction of $0,225 for the 3 ports. 1 ask the Minister whether it is a fact that the ANL has been absorbing, and thus giving a subsidy of, the 32c a ton which was imposed in 1968 as an export wharfage charge by the Melbourne Harbour Trust. If this is correct, this subsidy must be a factor contributing to the losses incurred by the ANL on the trade. In his reply of 19th August, the Minister went on to say that there is also the problem that the wharfage dues levied by the Tasmanian ports are substantially higher than those levied by the mainland ports. The Tasmanian port authorities point out that the Melbourne Harbour Trust does not have to provide anywhere near the services that are provided in Tasmania, and so its capital and operating costs could be substantially lower. 
The Tasmanian port authorities act in all things maritime and so cannot be compared, with Melbourne, other capital cities and the majority of outer ports in the other States, which in the main do not have to provide pilots, tugs, navigation and survey services, as these are provided by instrumentalities other than the port authority. In his telegram to me on 4th August, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  set out the reasons why the Government considered the increase of 121 per cent in what he termed the wharf to wharf component is necessary. But I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether this increase covers not only the wharf to wharf or sea leg component but also the wharfage charges and whether the increased amount obtained from this latter segment will be returned to the port authorities or retained by the ANL. To illus trate this point, I would like to give the freight rates before and after the rise. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard some figures that have been drawn up by a competent marine authority. 
This Bill seeks to correct what I consider to be an error made by the Government 12 months ago when it increased the bounty on the production of certain phosphate fertilisers. I commend the Bill and I am pleased to note the final paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  wherein he said: 
The Government intends to apply this principle to any future changes in the phosphate fertiliser bounty rates. 
He was referring, of course, to the fact that from now on the benefits of any bounty provisions will apply to stocks held in store by produce merchants on the night when the annual Budget was introduced. The Government at last has shown some sanity on this matter. On 27th August last year I pointed out in this House that produce merchants had been penalised 3 times in a period of 6 years - in 1963 when the bounty was first introduced at $6 a ton and many produce merchants were caught with stocks in their store; in 1968 - my friend from Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has referred to a constituent of his who was caught with a considerable amount of superphosphate in his store - when the bounty was increased from $6 to $8 a ton; and again last year when it was increased to $12 a ton. I pointed out in the House during the debate last August the inconsistency of the Government in this matter because when the bounty for nitrogenous fertilisers was introduced the Government gave credit for nitrogenous fertilisers held in store at the time the Budget was introduced, yet it had denied the same concession in regard to stocks of superphosphate held by produce merchants. 
I would go along with the honourable member for Mallee. If it was good enough for the Government to more or less compensate produce merchants at the time the Budget was introduced in 1969, surely it would be a simple matter for the Government to look back to 1968 and extend the principle to produce merchants for that year, and also to those who held stocks in 1963. As I have said, I think the Government should be commended for trying to correct mistakes that were made 14 months ago. I agree with the honourable member for Mallee that the Government should go back to 1968 and to 1963 because I know what it means to some produce merchants. Only recently I received a letter thanking certain honourable members for the representations we had made because the person concerned had received a cheque for §400. One might say that this is the cream on the skimmed milk. This concession is important to produce merchants. One can imagine how the books of the particular produce merchant would have been affected had this $400 been taken from him. 
The produce merchant to whom I have referred is not in business in a large way. He is one of many produce merchants in my area. By putting this right the Government in effect has paid out $400. There must be many produce merchants throughout the country who could do with this concession which I consider to be a legitimate payment from the Commonwealth. When we last discussed this matter in the House I pointed out that many produce merchants in my area were in a comparatively small way and were unlike produce merchants in other parts of Australia where superphosphate was ordered, and went straight out to the farmer. It was not handled by the produce merchant. In the very rich north west coast farming areas it is important for supplies to be on hand for the benefit of primary producers for the early sowing of canning peas and other cash crops. The farmers in southern Tasmania and on the mainland usually draw their stocks direct from the manufacturer so they are in a far different position. 
The merchants could ill afford to carry the $4 increase last year, the third time that they had been caught in 6 years and farmers were concerned in case the merchants decided not to stock the manures during August which is the traditional month for the introduction of the Budget. Had the produce merchants followed this line of action then the farmers themselves would have been seriously inconvenienced. If the produce merchants had said: 'It is coming around to August which is Budget month and we are not going to be made the guinea pigs by the Government and be caught with stocks of fertilisers in store. 
We just will not carry them in August until we find out what is in the Budget,' one can imagine the chaos, confusion and the inconvenience that would have been caused the primary producers and farmers who were anxious to go to their local produce store and draw on supplies of fertiliser, the attributes of which have been exalted by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  if one is living in a small farming district in the country, unless one has access to a produce merchant it is very difficult, as my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  knows only too well, to get supplies from the manufacturing centre which, in the ease of our State, is Hobart. The produce merchants play a very important part in the farm economy of a district. Apart from raising this matter here on 27th August I submitted a detailed case to the then Minister for Customs and Excise on behalf of the Produce Merchants Association which covers merchants between Deloraine and Wynyard. The then Minister for Customs and Excise.  Senator Malcolm  Scott, advised me of certain things on 9th September 1969. I just want to quote a part of the letter because I could never see the reason for this anomaly and that is why f am pleased to compliment the present Minister for bringing about this change. The advice we received was this: 
When  deciding  to  pay increased bounty on phosphate feriliser sold  on  and from 13th August  the  Government fully considered the question of including stocks held  by  distributors  for  bounty payment  at  the increased rate.  In  this regard,  it will be  appreciated that regardless  of the  point in time, or point  in  distribution chosen, disadvantage  will  occur  to  some purchasers. 
The  decision was made that the  increased  rates would apply only  to  those sales made  by  manufacturers on and from  13th  August  1969. The  Government had in mind  the  fact  that  Common-, wealth taxing laws such as sales tax and duties  of  customs and excise apply as from  the  commencement  of  business  on  die day after  the  announcement  of the  change is made. For example, when  a  sale has taken place, goods which  have  left  the  hands  of  wholesalers are not affected  by  any change in sales  tax. 
The  same principle has therefore  been  applied in  he c  case  of the  increased bounty on phosphatic fertiliser. 

 Senator Scott said that in the circumstances he could not apply the increased bounty to the stocks held by the produce merchants. However, this decision has now been reversed by the provisions of the Bill before the House and on behalf of the merchants on the north west coast of Tasmania I must say that I am very pleased to note the change of attitude by the Government and I am delighted to learn that the merchants to whom 1 referred in my speech on the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Bill 1969 will now be compensated for stocks held at the date of the introduction of the 1969 Budget, and, what is even more important, that the Government has now adopted the principleto ensure that in future the produce merchants will never again be disadvantaged when bounties on fertilisers are introduced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General  recommending appropriation announced. 
I desire to refer to the film 'Honey-Nature's Liquid Gold' which has been produced for the Australian Honey Board. The 16mm colour film of 20 minutes duration was produced for the Board by Peter Scott of John Bushelle Production Pty Ltd. I understand that the cameramen travelled 15,000 miles to capture scenes of the real environment of Australia's 5,900 bee keepers, excluding those in Tasmania. Copies of the film are being sent to government department libraries tor viewing and ordering, and it has been sent also to Australian trade commissioners in Britain, Germany and Japan. The film has been accepted for showing at the 23rd International Apicultural Congress which will be held in Moscow during August of this year. 
 I have been asked by the bee keepers in Tasmania to lodge the strongest possible protest about the fact that the film covers activities in the 5 mainland States and completely ignores any reference to bee keeping activities in the State of 
Tasmania. We protest that we were not invited to participate, financially or otherwise, in the making of the film. It should be remembered that the levy scheme would not have come into existence but for the consent and co-operation given by bee keepers in Tasmania. We realised that the mainland States were having trouble disposing of their low quality honey on export markets, and Tasmania agreed to participate in the stabilisation plan, even though it was of no benefit to that State, Tasmania agreed simply to assist the mainland bee keepers. Admittedly the levy paid on Tasmanian honey comes back to us for promotion of Tasmanian honey, including our world famousleatherwood honey. But I point out that levy collections in Tasmania are on roughly 50 per cent of the honey sold in Tasmania. All the specials appearing in supermarkets in Tasmania are honey packs from the mainland. 
If we take the latest figures available which cover the period from 1st July 1969 to 30th April 1970 it will be seen that levy collections in Tasmania amounted to $1,301. So it is safe to assume that the Honey Board benefited to the extent of more than $1,000 from the levy collected in Tasmania on honey packed on the mainland. It is wrong for the Board to assume that we are keeping all the money collected in Tasmania from the levy. The Honey Board financed half the cost of the film to which I have referred. Despite our assistance to overcome a constitutional problem associated with getting the levy operative and despite the undoubted levy collected by the Board for mainland honey sold in Tasmania, the Board, for some strange reason, did not include in the film any reference to Tasmanian bee keepers. Surely the situation warranted at least a few spoken words and a shot or two of the beautifulleatherwood tree which is unique to Tasmania and from which we derive the famousleatherwood honey. 
The latest market report from the United Kingdom gives prices for Australian honey ranging from£Stgl25 to £Stgl45 per ton, but at the sametime leatherwood honey was fetching over £Stg200 per ton. What right has the Honey Board to omit any reference to this unique product? Either the Department of Primary Industry or the Department of Trade and Industry is equally to blame because the Government financed the other half of the cost of the film on a §1 for $1 basis, lt is bad enough that the Honey Board discriminates against Tasmania, but it is being aided and abetted by the Commonwealth Government. Tasmania is one of the States in the Commonwealth. Its people pay their taxes and it produces the best honey in the world. When I took this matter up with the former Minister for Primary Industry he replied in a letter in these terms: 
When arranging the sequences of the film, the Board was mindful of the decision of the Tasmanian Beekeepers' Association before the Board was established, that it would not contribute to or participate in overseas promotion conducted by the Board. Up to date the Tasmanian Beekeepers' Association has not indicated to the Board that it wishes to change its policy and use the Board's facilities to promote Tasmanian honey overseas, and consequently the Board has no choice but to leave Tasmanian honey out of promotional considerations. 
What rot. Who misled him? If 1 were the Minister I would want to know who was responsible for writing that letter for him to sign. The Minister has been misled on other occasions. One instance of this is when he was misled by some of his officers in connection with the meat works at Burnie. The Chief Executive Secretary of the Australian Honey Board,  Mr K.  A. H. Read, wrote to the Secretary of the Tasmanian Beekeepers' Association on 25th March 1968. In that letter  Mr Read  gratefully acknowledged the receipt of that Association's cheque which was to be used for the promotion of honey in the United Kingdom. He congratulated the Association and pointed out in that letter that the grant to the Australian Honey Board would attract a $1 for $1 Government subsidy and would assist in the promotion of honey overseas. 
It is clear that the Minister v/as completely misled in regard to the information he gave me in reply to my representations seeking details of why Tasmania was not included in the promotional programme or even consulted with a view to participation. I think it is obvious that Tasmania would have been willing to contribute to the promotion programme, but its honey representatives were never consulted about the film. To add insult to injury, Tasmania was not included in a map of Australia on a promotional tea towel which was put out by the Australian Honey Board. Honourable members can see that this tea towel which I have in my hands depicts a map of Australia but there is a drawing of a bee in the position where a map of Tasmania should have been placed. 1 hope that it will sting the Honey Board into taking some sort of action in the near future, lt is of no use for the Board to attempt to fob off Tasmanian honey producers and say that it did not have anything to do with this promotional scheme. The latest report of the Board for the year 1969-70, which was tabled in this House the other day, states at page 12 that 216 tea towels were distributed from the office of the Board. If the Board is prepared to take the credit for the distribution of promotional material it must accept the responsibility for leaving a map of Tasmania off that tea towel. 
Apparently the officers on the Board have short memories. They mislead the Minister in his reply to me. They conveniently forgot that but for Tasmania the plan for orderly export marketing and levy collection in 1962 would never have got off the ground. A levy is a type of tax and the consent of all States is required before a levy can be imposed. At the time serious difficulties were being experienced by the beekeepers in the mainland States. Their export prices had progressively fallen from £Stg136 per ton in 1956 to £Stg89 in 1959. On the other hand Tasmanian producers were getting almost double the export price. They were getting about £St&amp;150 per ton for leatherwood honey, but in order to help out the mainland producers in their export difficulties the Tasmanians agreed to come into the scheme. Without the Tasmanian producers there would have been no orderly marketing scheme for exports and there would have been no authorisation for levy collections anywhere in Australia. Tasmania's complaint is that it was not invited to participate financially or otherwise in the promotional film. 
The producers of Tasmania have had a raw deal from the Honey Board and on behalf of the Tasmanian Beekeepers Association I lodge the strongest protest possible at this unfair discrimination by both the Commonwealth Government and the Australian Honey Board against that Association. I ask the Minister to find out who was responsible for dictating the letter of 17th December 1970, because the information he gave me in relation to the meatworks is not true. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the restriction to 220,000 tons of butter imposed by his predecessor on the dairying industry. I ask the Minister: Has there been a shortfall of this figure because of the restrictions imposed, coupled with adverse seasonal conditions? What is the immediate future of this very important primary industry and what are its prospects of being able to supply the home market during the winter months in addition to our current export orders? 
The Pig Industry Research Bill has been introduced at the request of the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, and as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has indicated, the Federation represents by far the great majority of farmers in the industry. There was previously only the one organisation, the Australian Pig Breeders Association, representing the breeders of stud pigs. The commercial breeders felt that they should get together for the benefit of the industry, but unfortunately attempts to form a federation failed time and again mainly because of a clash of personalities. This was referred to by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who led for the Opposition in this debate. The organisation finally got off the ground at a meeting held in South Australia in September 1969, and 12 months later the Secretary wrote to the then Minister for Primary Industry seeking legislation for the implementation of  a  combined Government-industry research scheme. 
It is unfortunate that 2 sizeable groups remain outside the scope of the organisation. I refer to the Victorian Division of the Australian Farmers Union and to  a  similar group in Queensland. The Pig Division of the Victorian Farmers Union has been seeking a poll of producers and an alteration in the constitution of the Federation to allow for any member group to have the power of veto rather than to allow for decisions to be made by a simple majority. The Minister has rightly ignored the protests by this group and has brought in the legislation that we have before us tonight. It provides for a maximum levy of 10c per pig slaughtered, with an operative levy of Se, which will raise between $150,000 and $160,000. With the Commonwealth's matching grant over $300,000 will thus be available for research purposes each year. With all due respects to the Victorians, this research programme is long overdue. Ronald Anderson pointed out in his publication 'Primary Industry Survey' of October last year the long time backward nature of the Australian pig industry. He said: 
It is an inescapable fact that in Australia pigs have been very much second-rate animals. The pig industry is, for example, one of the very few livestock fields in which the Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organisation has not interested itself. There has been a remarkable and serious dearth of research and extension workers trained in modern pig production techniques and  a  minimal level of pig research generally. 
He went on to say: 
In the last few years, the pig industry has boomed. The specialist has begun to oust the sideliner and in the process there has appeared an urgent and burgeoning demand for more sophisticated levels of knowledge about pigs, their breeding, feeding, housing and all the other factors contributing to efficient, economic pig production. 
Unfortunately (or fortunately) however, people do not breed as rapidly as pigs, and the level of knowledge now being demanded by specialist pig raisers, by the more advanced studs, and by the large intensive units is all too often beyond the limited research and extension facilities existing in Australia. 
Lack of finance has been a constant trouble. I am aware of several students having approached the Australian Pig Breeders Association and its individual members, anxious to do some postgraduate research into the problems associated with the industry, only to be turned down because of the lack of the necessary finance. This will be remedied by the Research Bill now before the House, in that the Bill provides for the establishment of a Pig Research Trust Account and for a Pig Research Committee which will make recommendations concerning expenditure for the type of research that I mentioned earlier. 
Moneys from the Trust Account will be used for scientific, economic and technical research in connection with matters related directly or indirectly to the raising of pigs, or the production or distribution of pigmeats and other products of the slaughter of pigs. It is anticipated in the Bill that a research programme will be planned to find solutions to problems of disease control, breeding, malnutrition, management and marketing. The setting up of progeny testing stations for the testing of boars throughout this country is essential in view of the desirability of improving carcase quality, or the ratio of fat to lean meat, and in improving food conservation. This is of tremendous importance economically, because with the correct food supply available to breeders of pigs it is possible to cut the food bill in half. The largest intensive unit in Tasmania, and incidentally one of the largest in this country, has conducted trials on pigs from 12 weeks to porkers, with remarkable results. The trials showed that 1.96 lbs of grain with a quantity of whey, totalling approximately 2.S lbs of food, converted to 1 lb of meat. 
The well known Wonga piggery in New South Wales has also conducted tests and the results of these reflect the keen and thorough planning that has gone into the Wonga breeding programme. The food conversion ratio test under tests conducted at Wonga last year, resulted in 1.9 lb of food to 1 lb of live gain and this reflects very creditably with tests conducted by the British Pig Industry Development Authority where the ratio was 3.5 to 1 and with tests in Victoria showing 4.5 to 1. We still have a long way to go in the field of nutrition and management of commercial pigs. In his report on his study tour of pig production in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia, Holland and France in 1967, the eminent authority,  Mr Vin  Fagan, reported that in all these countries considerable sums of money were being expended on research in the field of nutrition of the commercial pig. The Pig Industry Development Authority awards scholarships for postgraduate study, whereas here in Australia, similar requests from postgraduates have had to be refused, up to now, because of the lack of funds. 
The British Government also makes very large sums of money available for pig industry research, and the net result is that, there are many institutes equipped with the very best research facilities, each one staffed by experienced research workers supervising postgraduate studies by young graduates seeking their PhDs. There have been dramatic changes in the diet of pigs in recent years, and research is required to find alternatives, or to produce locally, whenever a shortage of the main food base, meat meal, becomes apparent. I understand that in any case, meat meals manufactured in Australia are of extremely low protein quality and we are importing fish meal from South America and soya bean meal from the United States of America to improve this protein quality. We, as a country, must conduct research in an attempt to find alternatives in Australia so that we will not have to rely on these imports. Skim milk used to be the main diet, but less and less milk separation is done now on dairy farms and whole milk is collected by tankers from the farms. 
It is estimated that the total quantity of skim milk retained on Australian farms declined from more than 700 million gallons in 1955-56 to about 460 million gallons 2 years ago, and skim milk now represents probably less than a quarter of the total ration fed to pigs. In 1966 it was estimated that in Victoria alone if skim milk was withdrawn completely from the diet of pigs, an additional 78,000 tons of meat meal and 21 million bushels of grain would be required if Victoria was to maintain the existing level of pig meat production. We have the grain to meet the requirements of an industry based on food other than skim milk, but there is serious doubt within the industry about our ability to meet the increased needs of animal protein foods. This is one of the fields which the Pig Research Committee, set up under the proposed legislation, will undoubtedly explore, now that finance is available. The Minister also referred to possible investigations into marketing problems, and with an anticipated over-supply of pigs in Australia next year, I feel it would be wise if some research was undertaken first into this problem. We do not want the problem that arose in South Australia recently when, from memory, I think some 3,000-odd pigs had to be slaughtered before the target of 1,200 carcases of suitable export quality - which was less than half - could be found for a consignment for Japan. 
Just before Easter the Australian Broadcasting Commission televised a programme which was seen by members of this Parlia ment and which dealt with an electronic machine from the United States of America which estimated the fat compared with the lean content of beef cattle. Electronic waves were passed over the back of the beast and a film was developed within 10 seconds. A graduated scale was superimposed over the film and the quantity of fat to lean meat was calculated. Perhaps an electronic device such as this, which can make a calculation in 10 seconds, could be used in the pig industry. Surely the research committee which is set up under the Bill could look at such a system. In this way we might be able to get over the problem of having to slaughter such a huge number of pigs in order to obtain the grade and type and quality required for the export market. In the near future we must come up with a Commonwealth scheme, acceptable on a Commonwealth wide basis, for a system of grading based on weight and grade, and not rely on individual State schemes. 
Grading has never been practised in Australia on a Commonwealth level. Voluntary schemes in individual States have sprung into being and perished, due to violent changes in the pig population. However, for many years Australian authorities sought to improve the carcase quality of pigs produced by conducting carcase competitions which were judged by standards established by a committee of English scientists and personnel experienced in the meat trade. This system of carcase appraisal was known as the Smithfield system and was universally adopted throughout Australia from the early 1930s to the late 1950s when many authorities considered that the Smithfield system no longer met the requirements of the Australian market. Since then some 5 or 6 differing, and often conflicting, systems have been established in the various States, and each of them has been studied in research projects conducted by the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture and the Pig Research Centre at Wollongbar in New South Wales. In general it was found that the indices used in the Smithfield system for assessment of carcase quality were invalid. Because of uncertainty and reluctance to establish yet another system of carcase appraisal, Tasmania has continued to use the Smithfield system. As  Mr Vin  Fagan has pointed out, it was hoped that information would be available from British research centres, and in particular from the combined testing stations, where large scale dissection work is carried out, which would enable a system to be based on sound indices for desirable carcase quality characteristics. However, the information when subjected to close examination has proved to be very disappointing, and in particular a workable and accurate index for the assessment of lean meat content in the carcase has yet to be found. 
Various research programmes are being undertaken at the University of Leeds, the Rowett Research Institute in the United Kingdom and the Vollebeck Research Institute in Norway, but here in Australia we have not adopted a practice of pig meat grading. The housewife is demanding more lean meat to fat and all we have done to meet this demand has been to decrease slaughter weights. Fifteen years ago the ideal baconer weighed about 160 lb, but now the processers do not want anything over 140 lb. Porkers have to dress out at 50 to 60 lb and this is a very expensive carcass to produce. This attempt at grading to meet the demands of the consumers is both expensive and wasteful and much research into a system of weight and grade is required. In this connection I was pleased to receive a report just released by  Mr R.  E. Brocksopp of Ulverstone, Tasmania. He undertook a study tour into pig meat grading and marketing in Canada last year and his findings would be worthy of study by the pig research committee which will be set up by the present Bill.  Mr Brocksopp  maintains that there are 4 lessons to be learnt from a study of grading, and I refer to page 11 of a report which he published on his return to Australia. He outlined the lessons as being: 
That gradings can operate satisfactorily at the abattoirs. 
This has always been a bone of contention with pig buyers. 
That the system of differential payment according to yield is of a financial stimulus to quality improvement to the commercial producer. 
That the stud breeder is encouraged to performance test his stock to meet the demand from the commercial breeder who is prepared to invest more in the type of stock that will improve his pig meat gradings. 
That the need for an all Australian system of gradings is necessary if the export market is to meet the challenge from other countries. Exports of pig meat to Japan have been made; in 1969 some difficulty in meeting the specification was experienced, but if grading throughout Australia was practised with one particular system of grading, the export market would lessen their difficulties in achieving the type of quality specification required by the importing country. 
The fourth lesson is most important. Other matters worthy of research include disease control and established pig housing. Pig housing is very big business today. At a cost some $400 to $500 per sow housed, it means an outlay of about $lm for an intensive unit of 2,000 pigs, and there are several such units now in Australia. I had hoped that the provisions of the Bill would have allowed me to deal with some of the takeovers that are taking place in Australia today by Canadian packers wim Mayfair and with Swift, and various moves in Western Australia and in Sydney, but this does not come within the scope of the Bill. However, I think it is worthy of some scrutiny by the Department of Primary Industry. I simply mention again that this is big business and some companies are investing up to $6m in certain takeover moves in various areas of the Australian pig industry. It is big business because it costs $lm today to put up an intensive unit for 2,000 sows. 
In conslusion, I hope that the research committee, which will have some $300,000 annually at its disposal, will encourage research into some of the problems to which 1 have referred, namely, progeny testing, nutrition and management and marketing, and in the interests of the industry, will come up with some Commonwealthwide, uniform system of grading to the benefit of the export trade as well as meeting the needs of the home market and satisfying the housewife in her search for lean meat as against that containing a fair degree of fat. I am very pleased to support the measure. I know that it will be of great benefit to the industry in which I, like the preceding  speaker,  have taken a great deal of interest. 
The tin agreement which the Parliament is asked to ratify, is the fourth negotiated by international interests since 1956 and is the most important one to date for Australia because we have changed from a consuming-importing member of the agreement to a producing-exporting member. The other major tin exporting countries arc Malaysia, Bolivia, Thailand, Indonesia, Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The objectives of the agreement are set out in Article I and I shall refer to them briefly. They are to provide for adjustment between world production and consumption of tin, to alleviate serious difficulties arising from a surplus or shortage of the metal, and to prevent excessive fluctuations in the price of tin and in export earnings from tin. This refers to the operation of the buffer stocks to which I will refer later. Another objective is to prevent widespread unemployment or underemployment and other serious difficulties which may result from maladjustments between the supply of and demand for tin. It is pleasing indeed to see this objective regarding employment and the well being of the work force employed in the industry included in the agreement. 
Other objectives refer to the taking of steps, in the event of shortages of supplies of tin occurring or being expected to occur and in the event of a surplus of supplies of tin occurring or being expected to occur, to mitigate serious difficulties which producing countries might encounter. These are implemented by export controls to which I will also refer in a few moments. Another objective of the agreement is to review disposals of non-commercial stocks of tin by governments and to take any steps which may be necessary. 
In Australia tin is found mainly at Greenbush in Western Australia, on several dredging sites along the tablelands of Queensland, at Ardlethan in New South Wales, and at Rossarden, Renison Bell 

<graphic href="072131197104282_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table clearly indicates that up to and including 1965 Australia was a net importer of tin. In that year we imported 1,582 tons and exported less than half of that quantity, 682 tons. In the following year, however, we imported only 203 tons and "exported more than six times that quantity, 1,360 tons. Due to the development of hard rock mining on a large scale at Renison Bell and Mount Cleveland we have seen the gap between imports and exports widen considerably. It is to the great credit of those two outstanding mining concerns that last year, 1970, we had to import only 100 tons whereas we were able to export 4,600 tons. Not only has this been of great benefit to this country in assisting our balance of payments overseas, it has led also to the construction of a new town at Luina, in one case, and to the rehabilitation of another, Zeehan, with millions of dollars being spent on the provision of new homes, schools, roads, shopping centres, television translator services, water and sewerage and, in recent years, Mount Cleveland in Tasmania. As I indicated earlier, Australia is now participating in the agreement as an exporting member. This change from a net importer to a net exporter occurred between 1965 and 1966 with the dramatic developments which took place at Renison Bell and Mount Cleveland on the west coast of Tasmania. The changed picture is best illustrated in a table of tin production, trade and consumption; for which I am indebted to the Australian Mining Industry Council. I have referred . this table to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate it in Hansard. schemes, and all the other associated services and amenities that have been of tremendous benefit to the people in this otherwise rather isolated area. 
As a net exporter, for the first time under the present International Tin Agreement, we are called upon to meet our obligations to contribute to the buffer stocks. I am very pleased that our negotiators in Geneva were able to have our contribution based on a percentage of our exports only and not calculated on our overall production. Under the present Agreement to come into force from 1st July this year for a period of 5 years, the buffer stock will amount to 20,000 metric tons and our contribution will amount to $1.6m. The floor price has been set at £Stgl,350, an increase of £Stg90 over the corresponding figure in the last Agreement while the ceiling price is set at £Stgl,650 It is the duty of the manager of the International Tin Council to endeavour to keep the world price between the floor price and 

<graphic href="072131197104282_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

the ceiling price. He is authorised to buy or sell, in an endeavour to iron out any wide variations in world prices. If the market price falls and approaches the floor price set under this Agreement, then the manager buys in stocks. If, on the other hand, the market price rises and approaches the ceiling price, the the manager sells from the buffer stock in an attempt to stabilise prices. 
 I would like to point out that Australia's contribution to the buffer stock is not another Government handout. When the Agreement terminates in June 1976 there will be, as under the previous 3 agreements, a winding up of the buffer stock and the Government can expect to receive its advance repaid in full, together with an interest rate of about 6 per cent because this has been the trend over the past 3 agreements. The manager of the Tin Council is an Indonesian, who is extremely competent and has had wide experience in the industry. I believe credit is due to him for the success of previous tin agreements. Apart from operating on the buffer stock to control fluctuations, the manager can also call on member countries to impose export controls if the world price of tin falls below the floor price set under the present Agreement. Quotas are determined, based on overall production of member countries, and, I understand from discussions with the Executive Director of the Australian Mining Industry Council,  Mr G.  P. Phillips, that the quota set in the case of Australia should be enough to prevent any disruption to the industry in the event of export controls being introduced. 
Export controls have been imposed only once since the agreements commenced in 1956 and in that case the Australian Government imposed restrictions on Australian exports of tin even though we were not officially in the producer category. Tin producers are fully aware of the effects of any controls, especially now that we are a net tin exporter, and the  chairman  of directors drew attention to this in his report to the shareholders of Renison in September 1969. He said: 
The International Tin Council has imposed restrictions on the exports of tin by its producer country members, and although Australia is not officially a producer country, the Australian Government has voluntarily imposed some restrictions on Australian exports. The tonnage of permissible exports from Australia under this arrangement has been such to date, that Australian production and exports have not been affected. Nevertheless, in considering any expansion programme full regard would need to be taken of the possibility thatinternational restrictions could limit Australian tin exports from time to time. . . . 
I refer now to the voting strength on the 
International Tin Council. The Council is centred in London and each participating country is represented by one delegate exercising a certain number of votes. The producer countries- we are included in that group - hold 1,000 votes and these are allocated to producer members in accordance with their volume of exports. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  referred to the fact that Australian exports are small, accounting for only about 3 per cent of world trade. Consequently, Australia holds under annexe A of the Agreement the 5 initialvotes plus 27 according to exports, making 32 out of a total of 1,000 or 2.82 per cent of the total votes allocated to producer countries. Malaysia has447 votes or 45.83 per cent of the total as the largest exporter of tin in the World. However, there is every indication that Australia's place as a tin exporter will improve in world standards. I have already paid tribute to Renison Tin and Cleveland Tin NL for their great developments in recent years which, have taken us from a net importer to a net exporter, and this trend will continue to develop as further expansion takes place at Renison Bell and Luina. 
Tin mining has been carried on at Renison Bell since its discovery by Ringrose Nicholson in 1890 and an intensive diamond drilling programme from 1955 to 1957 revealed extensive deposits, hitherto unknown. 
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. gained a controlling interest from Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd in 1958 and gave considerable impetus to the mining operations and exploration programme. There was considerable speculation in 1964 that Consolidated Gold Fields took over Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. simply to gain control of Renison Tin. Whether or not this be true, it is correct to say that the company certainly did commence an era of development, unprecedented in the region, which led to Australia's passing from a net importer to a net exporter. This involved an expenditure of over $10m and meant the driving of a declined adit which is now almost 8,000 feet from the portal to gain access to .the Federal and Bassett lodes. A concentrating plant, capable of treating 1,000 tons of ore a day was constructed on an area near the portal of the adit. Land was acquired in the nearby township of Zeehan, and the construction of housing and single men's and staff quarters, of a very high standard, was commenced. Street construction, kerbing and guttering, water and sewerage services in Zeehan were undertaken by the company and when completed these essential services were handed over to the local governing body for operation. It has certainly provided a new look for Zeehan. 
There has been a spectacular increase in the treatment rate over the past 10 years at Renison, rising from about 100 tons per day, 10 years ago, to 1,200 tons per day now-an increase of 1,100 per cent. The tin content of the concentrates produced was 1,134 tons in 1968 and this increased by just over 100 per cent to 2,277 tons in 1969 and by a further 40 per cent to 2,812 tons last year. Production will increase still further with developments and the expansion programme currently in hand. The General Superintendent,  Mr R.  R. McGhie, and his staff can take great pride in what they have accomplished, both in the mine and for the township of Zeehan, and especially in the fact that their mine is now producing one-third of Australia's output of tin, and is the largest of its kind in the world. The other mine which has contributed also to our transfer from a net importer to a net exporter is Cleveland Tin NL. It issued its prospectus in 1966 and commenced to build the township of Luina in the rain forest at a cost of over $2m. Further houses are planned for a work force which averages 230 to 250 men. A sum of $8&amp;m was spent on mine development, and further development is being undertaken to step up the rate of treatment and recovery of the tin concentrates. 
It is anticipated that both treatment and recovery rates will stabilise in June of this year, when Cleveland NL will be producing 140 tons of tin per monthly period of 28 days. Unlike Renison, this mine also produces copper and this runs at about 50 per cent of the amount of tin, giving 65 to 75 tons of copper per monthly period of 28 days. Here again the standard of housing, amenities, roads and streets, accommodation for. single men. provided by the company, and, above .all,' the very fine community spirit in this new town - in the treatment of new arrivals and the assistance given to those in need, as only two examples - stand out worthy of the highest commendation. 
The Minister referred- in his second reading speech to the significant expansion of production, resulting 'from the development of large scale hard rock mining in Tasmania, and as the member for the area I am especially proud of. the contribution being made to the nation's economy by Renison and Cleveland,- the two mines concerned. By their activities, they have lifted this country from a net- importer to a net exporter and have guaranteed, by their further developmental projects, that our export earnings from tin, valued- at $12m, will increase even further in the future. ' 
The International Tin Agreement, the ratification of which is provided for in this Bill, will assist these companies because the objectives as set out in the draft Agreement cover a wide fieldi, and 'will ensure price benefits and a fair degree of stabilisation for the . industry. This, as I have indicated, is very important for Tasmania, two-thirds of which is had for the exploration of minerals. Several companies hold tin exploration licences. They are: Ludbrooks in the south west, between Cox's Bight and Bathurst Harbour, ah area covering 170 square mile's; Texins in the north east; the New Mount Bischoff company, which has taken up 2 leases along the Waratah River; Anglo American, which is operating under the name of Comstaff Pty Ltd, and which is engaged in. an extensive programme around the old Mount Bischoff mine; and Australian Consolidated Industries, which, in conjunction with Renison, holds licences extending up the west coast from Granville Harbour to the Arthur River and is looking for tin and other minerals. 

 Mr W. E. Tucker of St Helens is currently undertaking to issue shares to the public in Briseis tin mine at Derby in the north east of Tasmania, and has stated that his group has spent $200,000 on equipment to date. Blue Metal Industries of New South Wales recently took over the old Endurance mine at South Mount Cameron in the north east, and is about to reopen the old mine. This company, BMI, is already producing tin from the nearby Monarch mine. ; ' Over the past 10 years, our production of tin has risen 450 per cent - from 884 tons in 1960 to 4,939 tons last year - and its corresponding value has risen 1,600 per cent, from being worth just under $lm 10 years ago to $17m last year. I repeat the figures because they show the spectacular increase in the mining industry in the island State of Tasmania. The value of tin produced 10 years ago was just under Sim, and last year it reached $17m. I have a table, supplied by the Mines Department of Tasmania, which shows the production and value of tin produced in Tasmania over the last 10 years. I have already referred it to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and have received his concurrence in having it incorporated in Hansard. So With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate it in Hansard. . . 
 We, as a State, are now the largest tin producing State in the Commonwealth, and Renison on the west coast of Tasmania, as I have already said, would rank as the largest tin mine of its kind in the world. Two-thirds of the State is held for exploration for minerals, and international agreements such as the one which this measure will ratify must inject additional confidence into the mining industry, as well as providing adequate safeguards for producers and consumers alike, and for the stability of employment of those engaged in the industry. 
In conclusion, I am very pleased to note that Australia has changed from being a net importer to a net exporter of this very important and valuable mineral. I strongly support the International Tin Agreement of which Australia is now a member. It will give us an umbrella of protection on the lines that I indicated when I commenced my speech, particularly as regards the sale of tin and the protection of the work force engaged in the industry. I strongly support the measure before the House. 
I strongly commend and support the Australian Labor Party proposition for a fuller and more detailed analysis of the costs and other factors that determine the cost of production of an industry, which is a relevant factor to be considered in deciding the extent of protection for our industries. This evening 1 want to deal specifically with the first Tariff Board report on the list contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I refer to the report relating to calcium carbide and the Board's recommendations on protection for that industry. The Tariff Board has recommended a duty of 40 per cent preferential, an increase of 10 per cent, and a general rate in accordance with international commitments. I understand that the margin of preference is twenty-three and one-third dollars a ton, so that the general rate will now be 40 per cent plus twenty-three and one-third dollars a ton. 
I state categorically that the Labor Party supports this increase, and I commend my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  for his great advocacy and support for this industry in his own electorate. I know that several public meetings have been held in his electorate. As recently as Monday evening a very big public meeting was held which was attended by Labor members of the State Parliament in Tasmania. The honourable member for Franklin was represented by his very charming wife. We strongly support the continuance of and the increase in the protection that has been granted to the industry that manufactures calcium carbide at Electrona in southern Tasmania. The Board has recommended also that any shortfalls in Australian production of calcium carbide be admitted at minimum rates of duty. The current demand in Australia for calcium carbide is about 20,000 tons annually. In Tasmania we produce 14,000 tons a year, so the shortfall of 6,000 tons is admitted practically free of duty except for a duty of 71 per cent on non-preferential sources of supply. 1 believe that this by-law arrangement comes into effect only if Australian users of calcium carbide agree to take the full output of the carbide works at Electrona in Tasmania. 
It was announced in the Tasmanian Parliament on 16th March this year that the smallest of the 3 furnaces at Electrona would close down at the end of June and that about 30 members of the work force of approximately 230 would lose their jobs. My inquiries lead me to understand that this will reduce production to 10,000 tons of carbide annually and that this production will be mixed with a similar amount of imported product for a twofold purpose: Firstly, to attempt to satisfy criticisms contained in the Tariff Board report on the operations of the carbide works at Electrona; and secondly, to attempt to reduce the overall cost of carbide to the 3 main buyers in Australia. This, as I indicated, would be brought about by mixing the cheaper imported product with the higher priced locally produced commodity. 
I agree with the sentiments and comments of my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor CDr J. F. Cairns). Thirty people are to be retrenched due to the efforts of a company to reduce costs and to satisfy the criticisms of the Tariff Board. I think we should know what steps are being taken to retrain these people for alternative employment or what steps are being taken to obtain alternative employ ment for them. They have been retrenched through no fault of their own. I voice the sentiments of my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Franklin, and others in Tasmania in the hope that further retrenchments will not be made in this industry. 
This Government and the Tariff Board must do all in their power to safeguard the industry at Electrona in southern Tasmania for 2 reasons. Firstly, Electrona is the only place in Australasia, and that includes New Zealand, where calcium carbide is produced. The industry must be protected and kept operating, because Australian industry would be in a serious position if it were entirely dependent on overseas suppliers. If any major international -upheaval occurred to halt the supplies we would be cut off. During the last week or two in Tasmania we have seen what can happen in the case of any upheaval. The industrial life of that State was slowly but surely coming to a halt because the shipping strike had cut us ofl from the mainland supplies. Secondly, the carbide works at Electrona represent the only secondary industry of any note in the Channel district in southern Tasmania. Electrona is the centre of the apple growing districts of Tasmania and it provides employment and stability to an area which is going through economic difficulties due to our inability to get rid of our apple crop at any reasonable price. I believe that the Minister for Trade and Industry was alluding to benefits such as these when in a recent speech on tariffs he said that no government can decide its tariff policy on considerations of costs alone. He went on to say: 
The benefits of an industry to this country must also be taken into account and generally speaking the benefits are more diverse and even harder to measure than the costs. 
This is perfectly true in the case of carbides. The cost of protection is easy to calculate and as I have indicated the company is proposing measures to assist in lowering these costs. But the benefits far outweigh the costs in this case. Therefore protection is justified and the Government must ensure that the plant at Electrona is kept operating. 
I shall refer again to the Minister's statement later in my speech. The chief users of carbide in Australia are Commonwealth Industrial Gases Ltd, Australian Liquid 
Air Ltd, both of which manufacture gas cylinders for oxy welding, and Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited which uses this product in the preparation of a substance used in dry cleaning. Norway is the chief overseas supplier to CIG. The price of carbide from Norway is approximately $90 f.o.b. plus about $30 a ton for freight and delivery into store in Sydney. This brings the price to around $120 a ton. CIG has an agreement, recognised and approved by the Department of Trade and Industry, to take its proportionate share of production from Electrona so that the imports from Norway can come in under by-law and attract a margin of preference of only 7i per cent, giving a delivery into store price of about $130 a ton. The price for the Tasmanian product free into store in Sydney is about $165 a ton. The fact that is is possible to buy imported carbide at a very much lower price than that produced at Electrona was pointed out by the Tasmanian Premier in the statement in the Tasmanian Parliament to which I referred earlier. 
However, I want to point out - and this is very important - that if the Norwegian product was not admitted under by-law and attracted the full general rate of 40 per cent plus the margin of preference of twenty-three and one-third dollars per ton, the imported price would be higher than the cost of the carbide produced in Tasmania. So, I believe in order to satisfy criticisms from the Tariff Board and others as to the cost structure of this industry, and in order to stay alive - this is the very, very important point that the honourable member for Franklin and I want to emphasise - the company has taken the decision to reduce production as from July to meet about 50 per cent of Australia's requirements. Although the industry is not in my electorate I personally put in a strong plea for continued assistance to the industry. I have been associated with it in one way or another for some 30 years and I have great respect for the pioneering family of Hay Brothers who owned, managed and operated the limestone quarries at Ida Bay for many years before selling them to Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co. Ltd. 
The old scow, 'Cathkit', which was brought from New Zealand to carry to Electrona the limestone to be mixed with anthracite from South Africa to produce carbide, is still in commission and has been joined since by the 'Alma Doepel'. Here again I would refer to the decentralising benefit of this industry because, without doubt, the small township of Lune River would go out of existence but for the 10 houses there owned by the company for its quarry employees. The company owns a further 50 homes at Electrona and Snug. The town of Snug made world headlines in 1967 when it was completely wiped out in the disasterous bushfires which swept through southern Tasmania. The company plant also was severely damaged and although it was forced to close down for one month all the workforce was kept on the payroll and apart from rehabilitating its own plant and building the company and its employees played a major part in rehabilitating the surrounding districts. 
The Commonwealth Government has a financial interest in the well being of Electrona. There is not only an interest in whatever benefits Electrona can bring to Australia - and I refer again to the Minister's recent speech - but also an interest because the Government loaned the State Government $218,000 so that the carbide company could get back into production after the bush fires. To my knowledge this loan has not yet been repaid. On pages 5 and 6 of its report the Tariff Board goes into some detail to compare the costs of production at Electrona with the costs in 2 overseas countries. Here again I want to point out how much I agree with what has been said by my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Lalor. I fail to see how we can make any comparison because of the tremendous disparity in volume of production compared with the 2 overseas companies chosen by the Board. The Rand plant in South Africa produces 40,000 tons a year in one furnace. The Odda plant in Norway produces 108,000 tons a year using 2 furnaces. The plant in Tasmania is small by world standards and produces only 14,000 tons - not 40,000 or 100,000- yet the Tariff Board uses these volumes for comparison purposes. We are producing only 14,000 tons in 3 furnaces. I cannot see how we can make any comparison, in regard to costs, with the Rand and Odda plants when we compare our low level of production with theirs. As the honourable member for Lalor said, how can we compare costs? How can we do this when insufficient information is given or when the information that we are given is entirely unsatisfactory? 
The Tariff Board on page 5 of its report on calcium carbide stated: 
The Board received in confidence - 
Why can it not make this information available to us even if it is of a confidential nature? I repeat: 
The Board received in confidence details of costs of production from 2 overseas producers of calcium carbide represented at the inquiry, Rand and Odda. These enabled the Board to assess the extent of disabilities in ACC's cost of production. 
How gullible was the Board if it wanted to make this comparison? I am not casting any reflection on the members of the Tariff Board. But here we have 2 overseas companies which have come forward to supply their costs of production and these details have not been made available to us. These are the only companies which have wished to do this. Surely there could be collusion or some ganging up or some effort to mislead the Board. I am not casting any reflection at all on the Tariff Board. However, because these 2 organisations which have high levels of production Were able to supply information of a confidential nature, the Board has turned around and estimated the cost disabilities. How can anyone forecast this? The Board has said that the cost disability of the plant at Electrona is as follows: Direct labour SOO per cent, raw materials 80 per cent and electricity 150 per cent. What does this mean? Why did not the Board spell it out? Why did not the Board come out into the open and give us more detailed information on the costs of the Australian industry as compared with the detailed costs from overseas so that we could see just how those plants are operating and where is the disability. 
The Labor Party requires some detailed assessment so that we can see whether the level of protection that we are seeking for our industries is justified. The carbide company at Electrona suffered in the bush fires of 1967. There was another fire in the plant in 1968 and along with all other Australian industries this industry has had to meet the ever increasing cost of raw materials, wages and transport. Let us forget about what the Tariff Board says. The figures of the company are conclusive. In the year of the bushfires - 1966-67 - the company did not pay a dividend. In the 4 years prior to that the annual profit dropped from $33,750 to $20,356. In 1967-68 there was a loss of $125,000. The company lost a further $124,424 with the plant fire of June 1968 and its report for 1968-69 showed a loss of $14,351. So for the last 3 years for which figures are available, there have been no dividends. 
In conclusion, I wish again to refer to the Minister's statement on tariffs. Prior to this afternoon I had only a newspaper extract of the speech, as reported in the Financial Review' of 16th April, when the Minister was speaking about the Government's point of view and talking about what the Government looks for. He said: 
From the Government's point of view, the economic worth of an industry to the nation requires a judgment on whether the benefits derived by the community from the existence of that industry outweigh or otherwise the costs to the community. 
So, he is speaking of either the benefits or the cost. Later in his speech the Minister referred to the fact that: 
No Government can decide its tariff policy on considerations of cost alone. 
The Opposition has endeavoured to point out to him tonight the costs of the Carbide Company. The Minister went on: 
The task which the Government faces is to make the right decision in each case in the national interest, taking into account both the casts involved and the benefits. 
He continued: 
Benefits to the community from the existence of an industry which a Government must consider in making its judgments on the level of protection provided include- 
Then - and this is the important thing as far as the Opposition is concerned - he said: 
Similarly, there can be highly significant noneconomic implications which a Government must take into account in considering the protection to be afforded an industry. Examples are where factories in decentralised locations provide major employment opportunities. 
I agree with my colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  who last night advocated protection in the form of a subsidy of some $2m to keep alive in 
Western Australia a town of 25,000 people. Tonight, my friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and 1 have simply advocated the extension of tariff protection for the Carbide Company of Tasmania in order to keep alive an industry at Electrona in southern Tasmania. Of course, my friend has always been a strong advocate of the decentralisation of industry in his own area. I also have been associated with a policy of decentralisation for over 30 years. I know the benefits that can flow from the continued support by the Government of the calcium carbide works at Electrona and the benefits that accrue in this apple growing area where producers today are facing depressed incomes. Every support for this industry in such an area where the industry gives some economic support to the area- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. When did the Minister receive the report of the Tariff Board on sulphur bearing materials and sulphuric acid made from indigenous materials? In view of the drastic and continuing' declining price, of imported sulphur at $16 a ton f.b.b. Gulf and. Canadian ports compared with more than twice that amount pertaining at the time when I believe the Tariff Board completed the report, would not the Minister agree that the Tariff Board report could now be considered out of date? Finally, when will the report be tabled, and will we be given an opportunity to debate the recommendations, if necessary, before Parliament rises this week, in view of the disabilities being faced by producers pf acid from indigenous materials? - 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that 150 men are being retrenched at the Associated Pulp and Paper Ltd mill at Burnie in Tasmania and that ils subsidiary at Ballarat in Victoria is reducing its working week from 7 days to 5 days because of lack of orders due to imports from overseas? Will the Minister make urgent inquiries into the rate of imports and the landed costs of writing paper and printing paper, both coated and uncoated, from overseas countries to see whether action by the Government to protect the local industry is warranted? In conclusion, will the Minister initiate a campaign through all Government departments and instrumentalities to buy Australian made products, as was done 10 years ago, in an attempt to assist the paper industry in this country? 
I have no desire to be unkind to the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  But the honourable member questioned the availability of finance and the position of the Constitution with regard to the setting up of a marketing authority. It is to be regretted, I think, that he and others on the other side of the House do not keep in touch with leaders of industry and, in particular, leaders of the industry that we are discussing tonight. Had they done this, they would have been supplied with a very fine exposition setting out the cost of the authority, the question of constitutional powers and so on. A number of their fears would have been shown to be groundless. 
In his second reading speech on the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  referred at length to the industry in Tasmania. I think that, at the outset, I should place on record the considered opinion of the Apple and Pear Growers Federation on the stabilisation plan. The Federation considers stabilisation a very necessary support plan to replace devaluation assistance. However, it nowhere near makes up for the loss experienced by growers through Australia's failure to devalue when Britain did. The plan gives a breathing space during which it is hoped to make the necessary drastic moves to reorganise the marketing of apples. One of these moves occurred at the weekend when the Australian Apple and Pear Board decided to issue one export licence to Tasmania with the 19 exporters working in a type of consortium. It is considered a very necessary adjunct to a marketing scheme such as that proposed in the Grant Report. 
The Federation considers, however, that the stabilisation plan has its weaknesses. One of these weaknesses is that it operates on the basis of an average Australian price and takes no account of the wide inequality of market returns experienced by different growers for the same quantity of fruit. The Federation points out that it will need to continue as planned and the amount of support may have to be increased to compensate for costs that are increasing and which are beyond the control of growers. I think that I should reiterate the value of the apple and pear industry to the economy of the State of Tasmania. I agree with the leaders of industry that, comparatively speaking, the apple and pear industry is more valuable to the State of Tasmania than the wool industry is the economy of the Australian nation. 
In recent years, the apple and pear industry has been worth between Si 6m and $20m annually. It provides between 45 and 60 per cent of agricultural earnings and 12 per cent to 15 per cent of the total incomes from rural primary industries, including timber and mining. There has been a trend to decrease acreage but to increase production as yields have improved. The average yield per .bearing acre in Tasmania 2 years ago was about 500 bushels of apples as against the Australian average of 300 bushels. In the same year, Tasmania produced 32 per cent of the total production of apples from 19 per cent of the total Australian acreage, that is, 7 million bushels out of a total of 22 million bushels. On an average over the past 5 years, Tasmania has provided 36 per cent of Australian apple production, but 70 per cent of apple exports. It has provided 7 per cent of Australian pear production but 21 per cent of pear exports. Of Tasmania's production over the past 5 years, 76 per cent of apples and 83 per cent of pears were exported. However, all is not well with the industry. Gloom and depression have settled over it. 
The industry is carried on in the Huon, Derwent, Tamar and Mersey Valleys. From the Statistician's figures of 1966, only 75 per cent of Tasmanian orchardists are still on their properties. It is a fact that 100 families have left the Huon Valley in the past 18 months. This emphasises the very serious situation that exists. The Apple and Pear Growers Federation has referred to the stabilisation plan envisaged in the present legislation as a support scheme to replace devaluation. I might add that it is a very poor support scheme at that. For many years, we enjoyed the benefits that came from the difference in currency values. The old English £1 was worth 25s Australian when we received the returns for fruit sold in the United Kingdom. This bonus, as it were, of 25 per cent was the cream on the skim milk and for years the industry prospered. Certainly we had bad years. I well remember friends of mine receiving a bill of 2s 6d for 250 cases of apples sold in the old country but these were the exceptions rather than the general rule. 
However, 2 matters have caused the present downturn in the industry. The first was the devaluation of the English currency. When this happened in 1967 the cream for us was gone. As the present Minister for the Interior said at that time, this Government had thrown the primary industries to the wolves. He accused the present Prime Minister of smothering the devastating damage done to our export industries under a flood of high sounding economic jargon. And he was right at the time but he has been very silent on this matter ever since. This Government, in its decision not to devalue, agreed to compensate growers and paid about 50c per bushel for apples and pears consigned to devalued markets. But the damage had been done. In the first year following devaluation, 1968, some 68 per cent of growers in northern Tasmania had net farm incomes below S2.000 per annum, despite the fact that they received on an average about $1,900 per orchard in devaluation compensation. If you take out the devaluation compensation the net return for the year was only $1 00. 
If there had been no devaluation compensation, growers in northern Tasmania in 1968 would have had a net farm income of minus $1,200. Growers in southern Tasmania would have been little better off with a net farm income of plus S600. Taken over the whole State of Tasmania in 1968 devaluation payments represented $2,513 of the average net farm income of $2,744 for each orchard. These figures come from the survey conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. From this it can be seen that devaluation compensation has helped, but not enough, and now it is to be replaced by a support scheme through stabilisation. The support price this year will be even less than the devaluation compensation. So how are they to exist? The Bill before us provides that the basic limitation of fruit forwarded on consignment is a total quantity of 4.4 million bushels. This quantity could attract the maximum payment of 80c per bushel. 
As the quantity exported at risk goes above 4.4 million bushels, the maximum rate of payment per bushel will be reduced pro rata.  Mr Jenkins  of the Australian Apple and Pear Board announced recently that the quantity forwarded on consignment this last season amounted to 7.5 million bushels. So by working on the formula 4.4 multiplied by 80c divided by 7.5 the support price for this season will mean a return of 47c to the grower if his fruit does not reach the price listed in column 2 of the Second Schedule of the Act. And of course, in many cases, the fruit will not reach the prices listed in the Second Schedule and so all the grower can expect is 47c in place of the previous devaluation compensation of around 50c per bushel. I spoke with some exporters in the Huon Valley last week and they estimated a stabilisation return of about 45c. If, as the BAE survey showed, we were going from bad to worse with the 50c odd under devaluation, what will be the position when this is reduced to about 45c? 1 have with me the returns only recently received by some growers. The first applies to 173 cartons of Jonathans shiped on the Britannic' to Liverpool at an f.o.b. return to the grower of $304.20 - an average of $1.75 per carton. In view of the large quantity shipped from Australia on consignment and the support price for jonathans as listed in the Second Schedule being $2.58, this grower can expect to receive an additional 47c from the pool, making a total of $2.22 f.o.b. for his fruit. It costs a grower $2.91 to put a case of apples on the wharf in Tasmania, so this grower will show a loss of 69c a bushel even after receiving his contribution from the stabilisation plan. Even with stabilisation he loses $119 on this shipment. For the sake of the record, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Mansard an analysis of production and marketing costs as determined for the 1971 season in Tasmania. It is on this table that I base my calculations. 

<graphic href="074131197110051_71_4.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister for his courtesy. 
 That table itemises the production costs at 76c per bushel. The harvesting costs are 20c; presentation costs $1.65; interest and depreciation 30c. It costs a Tasmanian grower a total of $2.91 to put a case of apples on the wharf in Tasmania. If you add the shipping and marketing charges which come to $3.33 the total cost is $6.24 which the grower must receive in the United Kingdom before he makes a penny for himself. From this, it can be seen it costs $1.65 simply to present a carton of apples and this does not allow for any return to the grower for his labour, sprays or fertilisers and all the expenses that go to putting the fruit on the trees. He has to get $2.91 at the wharf before he breaks even. 
The exporter in Tasmania takes 25c for every carton. The freight to the United Kingdom is $2.23 per carton. The person who sells the carton in the United Kingdom gets 85c. And all this means that the grower who sells at risk must get $6.24 for each carton overseas before he breaks even. Herein lies another weakness in the stabilisation plan. It is related to f.o.b. returns and has no relation to shipping and marketing charges in the United Kingdom and on the Continent. These can continue to sky-rocket as they have in recent years and the grower has no control over them and yet we have to face the prospect of another 22 per cent freight increase this year. I simply ask: How many people in the United Kingdom can afford to pay $6.24 for a carton of Tasmanian apples, and this charge is soon to be increased to almost $7 if the freight increase is to apply? 
I turn to another export return. This grower receives $150.31 for 103 cartons of jonathans shipped in the 'Britannic' to Hamburg. This gives him a return of $1.46 f.o.b. and does not even cover the presentation costs of $1.64. In other words he is down the drain 20c a carton simply after packing them in a carton and transporting them to the wharf. After taking into account his labour, spray and fertiliser costs, he will lose $1.45 on each carton and this loss will be reduced to $1 after he receives his contribution from the stabilisation plan. The grower does all the work and takes all the risks, yet the middle-men and the freight people take all the profit. Let me point out the expenses in connection with this shipment of 103 cartons in another way to highlight how everyone else gets his cut and the grower is forced to take what is left over - and as I have pointed out, this left over will not cover his costs of production. 
The main expenses for this shipment are: Freight $229.69 - mind you that is for 103 cartons; the freight charge was $229.69; exporters fee $25.75; importers commission $31.50; handling charges $34.75; landing charges $41.62. The fruit realised $525.55 but charges after leaving Tasmania amounted to approximately $374. Thus the grower is left with $150 to cover all the expenses of his own labour, packing and presentation costs and freight in getting his 103 cartons on to the wharf in Tasmania ready for export. In other words, the expenses after leaving Tasmania amounted to 75 per cent of what the fruit brought overseas and to me this is the weakness in the stabilisation plan because the grower is still at the mercy of the shipping companies and fruit importers and exporters. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the figure of 4.4 million as appearing in section 1 1 , sub-section 2 (b) of the Bill is totally unrealistic when compared to the total exports at risk of Australian apples and pears. This figure should be amended to a more realistic figure. Much play has been made of the fact that the pool payment to the grower is 80c but this is misleading, and as the quantity on consignment rises the pool payment is reduced. As I have indicated, the pool payment this year will bc about 47c based on an export figure of 7i million bushels. 
There is another aspect that amazes me and this is the different support prices for various varieties of apples and pears. I know the excuse that the experts put up. A greater support price is given for granny smiths but they are going out of popularity. This extra support is to try to encourage more people to grow them but the returns this year do not indicate that the granny smiths warrant this additional support price. 1 cannot see why we did not have the one support price because it costs the same amount to grow a bushel of apples whether they are jonathans sturmers or democrats or any other variety. I realise there has been this move to encourage the growing of granny smiths but this move is not justified by the figures. I consider too that section 7 of the Act relating to support prices for the different varieties of fruit should be amended to allow for the increases in the cost of cartons and wages, components of the f.o.b. price, which have risen since the support prices for last season were determined and listed in column 2 of the Second Schedule of the Act. To illustrate my point, there has been a rise of 6 per cent in national wages since these prices were determined on 1st October 1970. The Act provides for the support price for each variety of fruit to be determined on 1st October in the year preceding the export season under consideration. In view of this it is only reasonable to request that an escalating clause or arrangement be included to make provision for any increase in the components of the f.o.b. price for the particular season. 1 have referred to the rot that set in in this industry when this Government decided not to devalue in 1967 and offered the fruit industry compensation for devaluation. 1 have some knowledge of the fruit industry, having been associated with a fourth generation fruit growing family for over 30 years. The industry prospered right through from the turn of the century to the 1960s and, contrary to what the Minister for Primary Industry said in Hobart last week the industry has put its house in order with marked improvements in harvesting and packing to meet the rising costs. I admit that it desperately needs a single marketing authority. Credit must go to the exporting firms and I deplore the action of the Government members who write them down. Credit must go to these exporting firms which in recent difficult years have kept the orchards afloat through their advances to enable orchardists to buy sprays and manures and packing material so that the crop can be harvested. The  Chairman  of the State Fruit Board,  Mr Walker,  also was critical of the Minister's comments in Hobart. The industry has pruned out the unwanted sizes and varieties to which the Minister referred and the fruit has arrived at overseas markets in better condition than fruit from other countries. As  Mr Walker  points out, the biggest problem facing the industry is the increase in the basic freight rate. 
I pointed out that in 1968 the devaluation payments represented $2,513 of the average net orchard income of $2,744, leaving only $213 after the payment for devaluation for a year's hard work in tilling the soil, picking and packing and putting the crop on the seas. I do not know how much longer the industry can continue. Unless the Government accepts the amendment moved by the Opposition there will be a mass exodus of growers. I have not much time remaining. The returns T quoted earlier were from an orchard in the Mersey Valley but I draw the attention of honourable members to another case. For 220 cartons of democrats that were sent on the Rockhampton Star* to Rotterdam and Florence there was a return of 2,365 Danish florins. The cost of getting them there was 2,783 Danish florins and the debit return to the grower was 418 Danish florins or, converted to our currency, $104.50. That was for 220 cartons of democrats. He had to receive a return of at least $650.20 in order to break even. He had to pay that $650.20, and in addition to that had to pay $104 in order to satisfy the debit that these apples attracted. I close on this point because time is not on my side. I should have liked an opportunity to expand on the single marketing authority in support of the Opposition's amendment I appeal to the Minister, who I think realises that we are in a desperate position. The figures that I have cited prove this to be so. I have stacks of returns from the Huon, the Tamar and the Mersey valleys, if the Minister is interested in them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Corbett)  adjourned. 
It appears from what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said that this Parliament is so hide bound that we cannot alter the support price as laid down from 1st October each year in respect of the season for which the stabilisation plan is to operate. I regret this very much. I cannot see any reason why some movement in cash costs cannot be dealt with by a responsible government. Surely there must be some way by which recognition can be taken of movements in the various prices and the costs which the grower has to carry. Before 1 go on I want to let the Government supporters who have spoken in this debate know that the Tasmanian members on this side are speaking with the support of the industry leaders. It was at the request of the industry leaders that we attended a meeting of the Australian Labor Party Rural Committee in Canberra and put to that meeting the request of industry leaders to have this escalating provision included in clause 7 of the Bill. This is a result of representations made by quite a large number of orchardists in the Mersey Valley in northern Tasmania at a meeting a few weeks ago and also by a large group of orchardists last Saturday in the Huon Valley. 
At that time 1 received the request from the growers in the southern part of the Huon Valley that we attempt to get the Government to accept an escalating clause in regard to the movement of costs. I do not think there is any need for me to labour this point but I simply point out, as I did last night, that the support prices are set on 1st October 1970, say, for the 1971 season. As the orchardists point out the cost of a carton alone has risen from 65c to 70c. By looking at a table on presentation costs and cost of production drawn up by the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania it will be seen that the cost of a carton represents quite a substantial part of the cost of production and presentation costs. Therefore any movement in the cost of a carton during the current season must materially affect the f.o.b. price or the return which the grower receives. 
This is one item and unless we can get some single marketing authority to replace the present fragmented state of the industry, which is at present controlled by some 19 exporters, the growers will be faced with additional costs. If we can establish a single authority to act as the marketing agency for all cartons required by the growers we feel that some substantial reduction would be obtained in the cost of cartons. At the present time this is handled by at least some 20 different agencies. This multiplicity of orders must increase costs. If we had a single marketing authority to handle all the orders for all the cartons required for the apple and pear crop it would effect some sort of reduction in the cost of cartons to the grower. Until we have that authority any movement in the cost of cartons, as there has been since the support prices were set for the 1971 season which has just ended, must have some substantial bearing on the f.o.b. costs for which the grower must get a comparable return in order to cover his costs of production. 
In addition, at the beginning of this year there was the 6 per cent national wage rise which flowed over to orchard labour. In looking at production costs we see that the labour for a carton of apples represents 38c from a total production cost of 76c. 
Therefore labour alone per carton represents 50 per cent of the total production costs. In regard to presentation costs, the packing shed labour is shown in the table I referred to earlier as 45c for a carton of apples. This is out of a total presentation cost of $1.65. The packing shed labour alone represents about 25 per cent of the. total account. The 6 per cent wage rise naturally flows over into such costs, as would be shown in cool storage, country freight, shipside freight, the Marine Board wharfage and, not so much the transient insurance but the pallet charges and so on. 
It is a pity that the Government cannot see fit to get around the problem so that it could accept an amendment which has been put up in all good faith, not so much by politicians but by industry leaders. I assure the Minister that the amendment has come from dedicated people who are pioneers in industry, who are responsible for a tremendous amount of good and who have been in the industry for many years and are looking forward to some form of stabilisation now that the Government has decided against devaluation compensation. In all good faith, these people felt that there should be some provision for movement in the cost structure. If the growers have to endure this movement in costs, which is entirely beyond the control of the growers, then surely some way could be found to incorporate it in the support price structure so that the growers would be able to receive the benefit. 
The growers are at the end of the line all the time. Like all primary producers, irrespective of what industry they are in, the growers are not able to pass on costs as they occur. It is unfortunate at this time when the Minister, in all sincerity, is trying to do something for the industry - I hope that when he sees the position as it has deteriorated day by day he will be able to do more for it - that this request cannot be accepted somehow by the Government. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Once again I assure honourable members opposite that our request is made on behalf of the industry itself. We were accused earlier today of putting up our own scheme but the request comes from the industry. I have had hundreds of representations from people in the industry. I could refer to only one or two of them last night, but I would like to refer to some more of them in a minute. The whole question is that the quantity sold at risk has doubled in the last few years, and we are now selling about 7.5 million cases of fruit per annum at risk. This situation has been brought about by the fact that, because of the dock strikes in England in 1970, the people who bought apples in the orchards lost millions of dollars as the ships that were carrying the apples were diverted from one port to another. Sub stantial costs were incurred by the exporters who owned the apples at this time; as I say, the cost ran into some millions of dollars. So we found that in the 1971 season no buyers visited the orchards as they had done for the past 50 years, and the large quantity of fruit that was forwarded on consignment during the 1971 season is a direct result of the loss that was incurred by the people in the Old Country to whom we sold in advance. We do not think - I speak for the industry - that they will come back in the near future. It might be some years before sufficient confidence is again engendered in the industry for these buyers to reappear in the orchards during the apple season. 
I think the Government agreed more or less to the stabilisation plan as a substitute for the devaluation compensation that growers once received. I think this was referred to by the former Minister for Primary Industry when he opened the annual meeting of the Apple and Pear Federation conference in Hobart last year. The present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  opened the second annual conference last week. This scheme is a substitution for compensation devaluation. The growers have asked us to come to the Parliament and to ask the Minister whether he will try to do something under this scheme because, for the  7i  million cases that will be sold at risk, the growers will receive only 45c a bushel. That is not even equivalent to the devaluation compensation payment. 
The present position of the industry was brought about by the devaluation of sterling. The Government decided to compensate growers for the lower returns they received on fruit they sent to markets in countries which had devalued their currency. But even in the first year of devaluation compensation payments growers in Tasmania were in a parlous state. But this year, when we will give the growers 45c a bushel under this stabilisation scheme, they will be in a far worse state. As I said last night, in 1968, the first year following the devaluation of sterling, some 68 per cent of growers in northern Tasmania had net farm incomes below $2,000 a year despite the fact that they had received an average of about $1,900 for each orchard as devaluation compensation. In other words, the net farm income was only $100 a year. Under the stabilisation scheme the payment must be considerably less than $1,900 for each orchard, and growers will be in a very bad state. If there had been no devluation compensation in 1968, growers in northern Tasmania would have bad a net farm income of minus $1,200, and the growers in southern Tasmania would have been a little better off with a net income of plus $600 a year. 
Surely the very basis of a stabilisation plan is to try to put the industry on its feet. The figures I have quoted obtained 3 years ago. My word, we have gone down very quickly in the last 3 years. I refer also to the disastrous bushfires that affected southern Tasmanian orchards in 1967. So we had not only devaluation of sterling to put up with but, as I say, bushfires also. In the couple of minutes I have left I want to make a plea to the Government to do something about this because the bushfires that affected these orchards were an act of God. As we know, because we debated the matter in this Parliament, the fire travelled through the air. As 1 have said here, 1 can show honourable members slides depicting dry country with not a skerrick of fire damage on the ground for acres and acres and yet the tops of telegraph poles were burnt off and wires collapsed. Fires added greatly to the indebtedness of the orchardists in the Huon. Next year will be the most difficult one that I think we will go through. The Government loans that were made to farmers after the fires in 1967 have an interest rate of only 3 per cent, but the first call on this money will be made on 1st April 1972. The first instalments will have to be met on 1st October 1972. Some of the loans are on the basis of twenty 6- monthly instalments and some of them are on the basis of ten 6-monthly instalments. I know of farm after farm that is up for $700 or $800 every 6 months. Even if they had received the income that they obtained in 1968, as I tried to point out. the position would have been practically hopeless. But in the 3 intervening years a downturn has occurred in the industry. The 45c a bushel which is to be paid under the stabilisation scheme will nowhere near compensate even for the devaluation loses. 
The position of those engaged in the industry is very grim indeed. Those in the industry know that they cannot obtain any more than 45c a bushel. They were hoping for 80c a bushel. I realise that an amendment proposing this increase cannot be moved to this Bill because the sum appropriated with respect to the Bill would need to be increased and amendments of that type cannot be made. But I do appeal to the Government to accept the proposed sub-clause so that this figure will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for each season. 
The growers realise, as a result of the returns achieved, that the position is hopeless. With the payment of 45c a bushel under the stabilisation scheme the position will still be hopeless. Last night I quoted the case of one grower who dispatched 222 cases of apples and received a bill of $104 in respect of them. He was $650 down the drain - that was the break-even figure - before he received the bill for $104. I do not wish to weary the House with these examples but they show that the situation in different orchards is similar. One grower consigned 440 cells of sturmers - honourable members should note that different types of apples are involved - on the vessel Halifax Star' to Rotterdam. The sturmers brought $858 or $1.95 a bushel. This represented a loss of 86c a bushel. The compensation payment will be 45c a bushel only. So, this grower will still lose 41c a bushel. Put another way, he will lose $378.40 on that shipment of apples. 
Another example that I have here concerns a consignment of 264 cartons of granny smiths. These apples are supposed to be the top line and the ones which attract the highest support price. This quantity of apples was sent on the vessel Port Nicholson' to Hamburg in the last season. The return that they attracted was a little better than the return in the last example I gave. These cartons realised $675.97 or $2.55 a bushel. The loss on that shipment is $95.04. The next example that I give concerns a shipment of 373 cells of democrats on the vessel 'Greenland' to Hamburg. These cells realised $79.80 or 22c a bushel. The cost f.o.b. on the wharf in Tasmania was $2.91 a bushel. So, this grower has lost $2.69 a case or $1,003.37 on that one shipment. I could continue to give further examples. These statistics indicate that a more realistic figure than 4.4 million bushels should be adopted. That figure may have been acceptable 3 years or 4 years ago for the total at risk in relation to the state of marketing in the industry then. It is not a realistic figure now. If these growers are to be assisted in any way at all we must be more realistic and must increase the figure to 7.5 million bushels or something of that order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will not detain the House very long. I would like to make a contribution to this debate because I attended a meeting at Ulverstone on Monday night. I support the Bill before the House. I am very pleased that the Bell Bay rail link is now to be constructed. This rail link will, as my 2 colleagues from Tasmania have said, be of tremendous benefit to the wood chip industry in Tasmania. It will in addition, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said, provide opportunities for employment which will ease the unemployment situation. The rail link will also provide for much needed impetus to the processing works for the impregnation of timber at Longford in the honourable member's electorate. I ask the Minister for Shipping and 
Transport  (Mr Nixon)  whether he will carefully bear in mind the impact of this decision by the Government to build the Bell Bay railway link on the recommendations in the Pak-Poy report that has just been released in Tasmania. I sincerely hope that the Tasmanian Government after considering the Pak-Poy report will throw it out holus-bolus. There is quite a lot of good in the report, and some of the recommendations are all right, but there is a lot of feeling in Tasmania among economists and others that the recommendations are based on wrong information and, so, many of the findings are incorrect. 
The whole report seeks to justify the upgrading of the railway service in Tasmania and, because of the provision of Commonwealth money for the Bell Bay link, the report contained a recommendation that Bell Bay be the one port for Tasmania. This is completely contrary to the 4-port system in which the Minister for Shipping and Transport has a special interest because the Australian National Line has over the years not only supported but also built its line of ships to service the 4- port concept which has operated so successfully in the island State of Tasmania. If the Government is at all influenced by the Pak-Poy report based upon the concept of the link to the present Tasmanian railway service taking all non-bulk cargo from all over Tasmania simply to get longer rail haulage and so make the railways pay - and this is definitely the thinking of the people who produced the Pak-Poy report - woe betide all attempts at decentralisation and the attempts of the Australian National Line over the years to develop the ports of Hobart, Devonport and Burnie. It will not only destroy the concept of decentralisation as we know it but also add an impossible burden on industries that have grown up around the 4-port concept in Tasmania. 
For example, paper from Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd at Burnie and Wesley Vale will have to be conveyed by rail over this link to Bell Bay, according to the recommendations in this report. This will add an extra $6 a ton to the freight charge for this product. We know, of course, the difficulties being experienced by this industry at the present time. It has retrenched from 250 to 300 employees. It looks as though Pak-Poy and Associates completely based its report on the fact that the Commonwealth Government has provided the funds and the State Government intends to carry out the rail link to Bell Bay, and in trying to build up the financial returns of the railways it has come out so strongly in favour of the oneport concept. I add this word of warning and ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether he would look into this question, because I fail to see how all the Australian National Line shipping services at present serving Tasmania can be concentrated upon the port at Bell Bay simply because it has this rail link provided by Commonwealth money. I repeat that it will sound the death knell for many of the small industries that have grown up in the port areas. I might add for the Minister's information that there was quite a large public meeting at Ulverstone with representatives of municipal councils from Smithton to Latrobe and from the marine ports along the north-western coast. Out of it has been established a committee to deal directly on this matter and report to the Minister for Shipping and Transport in Canberra. I appeal to the Government to make sure, irrespective of the benefits that this money will provide for Bell Bay and the wood chip industry in northern Tasmania - and I support it very wholeheartedly - to take cognisance of the fact that the Australian National Line knows more about the benefits of the 4-port concept than Pak-Poy, which has based its report wholly and solely on the fact that the Commonwealth is building this rail link. It has tried to justify the sending of all goods through this link in order to make the Tasmanian railways pay. If this happens many industries will go out of existence. 
Will the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport have inquiries made into the reason for the recently announced 3 per cent surcharge imposed by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on steel shipped to non-capital ports such as Devonport, Burnie and Launceston? Can the Minister advise the House why it costs $2.70 a ton more to ship steel from Port Kembla the relatively short distance to Devonport, Burnie and Launceston than to ship it the longer distance to Hobart? Finally, will the Minister have inquiries made to ascertain whether Australian National Line vessels can carry steel to the 3 northern ports of Tasmania to overcome the disparity in freight rates and price cutting which will inevitably follow among steel fabricators in various parts of Tasmania? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  that clause 3 be postponed as an instruction to the Government to provide for the payment of the bounty to be extended until 31st December 1974. I support what the honourable member for Dawson said regarding the recognition of the obligation of the Government by the Tariff Board after a great deal of research by the Tariff Board in 1967. I fail to see, and I would like an explanation from the Minister for the Army and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock),  why it was that the Tariff Board said in 1967 that it recognised that the obligation should extend for 20 years. Honourable members should bear in mind the life of plants of this type. The industry has been supported by the Government since 1954-55. The addition of the 20 year obligation period recommended by the Tariff Board would bring us up to 1974. 
I disagree with the Minister and I agree with the honourable member for Dawson. I think that there has been double dealing. I do not like to use the word. The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, in my electorate, has for years provided pyrites for making sulphuric acid. Mount Lyell is one of those companies which was assisted and encouraged in 1954 to go into pyrites production. As a matter of fact, the Commonwealth Government had a stake in the industry. I recall that in those days it assisted on a £1 for £1 basis with some port installations at the port of Strahan to enable the pyrites to be moved from Strahan to Melbourne for the manufacture of the acid. When the acid plant in Victoria ceased to take our supplies of pyrites Mount Lyell and the Electronic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd set up a joint company called North West Acid Pty Ltd. They thought that they were protected until 1974. They had great faith in the Tariff Board and in the fact that the Government more or less - not always - accepts the reports of the Tariff Board. 
An obligation to the industry was recognised in 1967, and the company went ahead and invested a considerable amount of money - over $lm - in additional plant and equipment at Queenstown and also in installations at Melba siding near Zeehan, the terminal of the Emu Bay Railway Company railway line which takes the pyrites north to Burnie. They anticipated that they would be protected by the bounty and they also had the assurance of the Tariff Board in its recommendation of 1967. Let me point out to the Minister again that I think the obligation should extend until 1974 because of the dramatic changes that have taken place in the industry. There has been a long delay in the Tariff Board's report which has not been accounted for by the Government or by the Minister a while ago when he spoke in the Committee stage of the Bill. 
The reference was given to the Board by the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry 3 years ago. The public hearings took place 2 years ago. The report to the Minister was made 18 months ago but it became available to us only in 1971. I repeat that there have been some changes in the industry since evidence was taken at the public hearings 2 years ago. At that time the landed cost of sulphur was $46.12 a ton. Looking at that price and looking ahead, the Tariff Board said that it could not see why protection would be needed in the foreseeable future. It estimated that North West Acid Pty Ltd would not require tariff protection unless the landed cost of sulphur fell below $28 a ton. North West Acid is a competent company with trained economists. When they looked at the economics and the viability of this industry they believed that it would require protection if the landed cost of sulphur fell below $38 a ton. That is a difference of $10. I am more strongly on the side of the economists who considered the economic viability of North West Acid and argued that it would need protection below $38 a ton. 
Supposing the Tariff Board is right - although there is $10 difference - in its report in which it said that North West Acid would require protection if the price fell below $28 a ton. It has been very difficult to get these prices, but . we know for a fact that since last December the price has been $26 a ton and less. So surely the Government, rather than extending its obligation un iiI May next year, ought to do the right thing by the Tariff Board and by the industry and extend it until 3 1st December 1974. I have referred also to the other problem that the industry has to put up with. That is the question of the ready availability of the bulk carriers throughout the world when they are tramping and collecting cargoes for any freight rate. This applies not only to sulphur but also to coal. They are back loading coal from the United States and taking it to Japan at about $3.40 a ton. This is the lowest rate on record and is a fantastic cut in freight rates. 
Some of these tramp vessels are coming here from Vancouver in Canada, bringing sulphur into this country at fantastically low rates. There is no end to this. On 1st July an additional 30 of those ocean going bulk carriers were tied up compared with the number tied up on 1st June this year. The shipowners, according to the best information available from the Department of Shipping and Transport, are not prepared to lay them up. They are prepared to take anything they can get to cushion the losses that are amounting to $100,000 a round trip on these vessels. This elemental sulphur is being landed at fantastically cheap rates. Surely the Government ought to protect local industry. Surely it should see its obligation to industry and extend the bounty until the end of December 1974, otherwise the industry will be forced to the wall. Irrespective of the assurances that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  may have, one hears a different story when one speaks with the principals of the company in South Australia. It is different when one speaks to the men employed at Nairne and to the men employed at the sulphuric acid plant in South Australia. 
The honourable member spoke about the possibilities of finding them alternative employment. I only hope that the honourable member for Angas is right and that they can get alternative employment. But that is different from the information I have received. The honourable member will have to front up to his own electorate. I have to worry about the families that are concerned in my electorate. I make the strongest possible plea here today to the Government to do the right thing by this industry and at least to recognise the fact that we ought to encourage the use of our own natural resources. We ought to save foreign exchange where we can. On the best information available, we are saving $5m a year. The amount that the Government is giving in compensation is estimated to be $2m. So there is still S3m down the drain if we accept the compensation and do not save the foreign exchange. I appeal to the Government to do the right thing - if not here then possibly in the other place - and to accept the amendment moved by the Opposition which seeks to extend the provisions of the bounty, both for sulphuric acid made from pyrites and for the indigenous pyrites used in the manufacture of sulphuric acid, at least until 31st December 1974 for the reasons that I have outlined. 
1 support the amendment to be moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in the Committee stage which, if accepted, will give effect to the extension of the bounty period until 31st December 1974. The Government has accepted the report of the Tariff Board on sulphur and sulphuric acid. I want to make it quite plain from the outset that I am strongly opposed to the recommendation that the bounty be extended only to May 1972. 1 also protest very strongly about the long delay since the last reference to the Tariff Board and its consideration by the Government. The present reference was made by the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry on 11th October 1968 3 years ago. Public hearings took place in Melbourne in 17th and 18th June 1969; in Perth on 8th July 1969 and in Canberra on 20th November 1969 - 2 years ago. 
In August 1969 this Parliament was asked to extend the bounty for 12 months until 30th June 1970 pending the report from the Tariff Board. I understand that the report was completed, signed and given to the Minister for Trade and Industry in June 1970 - 18 months ago. From that date it took the Minister 1 1 months until 20th May this year to read, study and make up his mind to accept the recommendations. That is not good enough for this Parliament, for industry and for the people who depend on industry for employment. The reference was made 3 years ago. The public hearings took place 2 years ago and the Government sat on the report for a year. In that time, as my colleague the honourable member for Dawson pointed out, great changes have taken place in the structure of the industry. 
In its submission North West Acid Pty Ltd of Burnie, Tasmania, requested assistance by way of bounty at the rate of 22c per ton for each $1 by which the landed cost of sulphur fell below $38 per ton. This submission was made to the Tariff Board on 17th June 1969 and in its report the Board points out that according to its calculations the company would not require assistance unless the landed cost of brimstone was less than $28 per ton. But this was based on evidence taken 2 years ago. I must point out that at the time the evidence was given by North West Acid, and the decision given by the Board based on that evidence, the landed cost of imported sulphur for the quarter ended 30th June 1969 - this is when the hearings took place - was $46.12 per ton. But the price of imported sulphur has fallen dramatically since then. The latest figures that I could get from the Department of Customs and Excise and from the Research Section of the Parliamentary Library show a drop of over $22 per ton to $26 per ton for the December quarter last year, and in the last half-year of the current year. 
On the Board's own findings in its report North West Acid and its associated pyrites producers should be given assistance now because of a collapse in world prices of imported sulphur. I repeat that North West 
Acid said that it would require assistance if the landed cost of imported sulphur fell below $38 per ton. The Tariff Board said that it would require assistance if the price fell below $28 per ton. For almost 12 months the actual price has been below $26, so surely as the honourable member for Dawson said there is some justification for this matter to be again referred to the Tariff Board so that it can bring the matter up to date. 
I have used figures on landed costs because these were the yardstick for the Board's calculations. But to emphasise my point I will refer to the average cost per ton of imported sulphur. In 1960 it was $39.43 per ton; in 1969 it was $32.07 per ton - this was the year in which evidence was taken and the recommendation was made; last year it was $18.80, which is a drop of about $13 per ton. As I have pointed out before in this place, we can always expect rises and falls regularly in the price of elementary sulphur. But the position has changed quite recently with the discovery of large natural gas deposits in western Canada in recent years. These deposits contain hydrogen, sulphide, commonly known as rotten egg gas. The sulphur is recovered in the sweetening process of the indigenous natural gas prior to its delivery to consumers in the home market in Canada and to an increasing extent in the United States. 
So it is important to remember from this that recovered sulphur production in Canada now goes on and on, regardless of any trends in supply and prices on the world sulphur market. It is calculated that stockpiles will increase in Canada at the rate of 9 million tons a year. Last year production was estimated at 4.2 million tons. This year it is estimated to be 5.8 million tons, rising to  li  million tons next year. Canada now supplies us with 58 per cent of our requirements, with the bulk of the remainder of our requirements being supplied by Mexico while smaller amounts come in from the United States and Poland. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table which has already been shown to the Minister, sets out the countries of origin and the imports of bulk sulphur by Australia for the year 1970- 71, the dramatic increase for the year 1971- 72 and the very dramatic decrease in the price of sulphur. 
I incorporate the table accordingly. 

<graphic href="074131197111042_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

This tremendous build-up of stocks in Canada to which I have referred has naturally affected world prices, as is much more evident now than when the public hearings were held 2 years ago. The 6th August 1971 issue of the 'Mining Journal', published weekly by Mining Journal Ltd of London, draws attention to the depressed overseas prices. In the United States of 

<graphic href="074131197111042_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

America and Mexico in August of this year the prices were down to $22 to $25 a ton f.o.b. whereas Canadian sulphur was priced at $10 to $20 a ton f.o.b. Importers of sulphur from Canada, however, cannot expect to go on benefiting from these lower prices forever because during the first week in August the Alberta Government announced that it plans to institute controls on the sale of sulphur produced in an attempt to get a more realistic price and to bring some stability back to the industry. But this could take years to achieve. 
Coupled with low prices is the fact that freight rates to Australia have fallen dramatically also. An excellent article appears in the July-August 1971 edition of 'Sulphur'. It relates to shipping and transportation and is headed: 'Freight Rates Sink to New Post War Low Points'. The article points out that there were 120 dry cargo ships lying idle on 1st July this year compared with 97 the month before. The article points out also that it is plainly evident from statistics issued by the United Kingdom Chamber of Shipping that dry cargo owners are refraining from laying up their vessels in spite of the losses now being incurred on many voyages. On some voyages losses amount to almost 5100,000. The owners will accept any freight rate rather than lay up their bulk carriers I give a couple of examples. Sulphur rates from Poland to India were reduced from $16 a ton 12 months ago to $10.50 a ton last month. Sulphur rates from Vancouver, Canada, to this part of the. world were reduced last week by as much as $5.75 a ton. Falling prices overseas and greatly reduced freight rates are 2 factors which threaten the manufacture of sulphuric acid from indigenous materials and so also, threaten employment opportunities in Tasmania and South Australia. 
I maintain that the present Tariff Board report is stale and out of date. I challenge the Minister to produce the figures of imported sulphur that were available to the Board 2 years ago and upon which it based its conclusion. I quote from page 16 of the Board's report as follows: 
Of the 3 producers of pyrites, the Tasmanian companies - EZ and Mount Lyall that supply North West Acid - would not require assistance at the prices likely for brimstone in the foreseeable future. 
I should like to know the prices on which the Tariff Board based that comment. The report continued: 
Although world brimstone supplies currently exceed demand and arc likely to remain in surplus for some years the Board does not consider world sulphur prices likely to be such that assistance is warranted in terms of its normal criteria for the most efficient producers of sulphur or sulphuric acid from indigenous materials. These are the producers of pyrites on a by-product' basis and the producers of acid from gases arising  as  by-products from the sintering of lead-zinc or zinc concentrates. 
I think that in all fairness the Government should withdraw this legislation and resubmit the matter to the Tariff Board in an attempt to bring it up to date. 
The whole question of bounty stems from the fact that there was a world shortage of sulphur in 1951 and the Government then decided to encourage manufacturers to produce sulphuric acid from indigenous sulphur-bearing materials. By 1954 the world brimstone supplies had eased and to meet the competition  a  bounty was paid to manufacturers of acid produced from pyrites. Subsequently Government policy of assistance by bounty changed, but the Government, realising it had an obligation to the industry, per medium of its encouragement in 1951, decided to ask the Tariff Board how best it could meet its obligations to the industry. In this connection I quote from the 1967 report of the Tariff Board concerning sulphurbearing materials. This is important, because I want to know why the Government has departed from the 1967 report. The report states: 
In setting the period of obligation the Board is of the opinion that 20 years would be reasonable. According to witnesses, this is about the average life of a pyrites plant with normal maintenance. In selecting the period of 20 years 'he Board is mindful that the Government has never committed itself as to the duration of its obligations to the industry. However, assuming that the Government accepts that it has an obligation for this period, the Board suggests that it commence from 1954-55, when most production commenced under the scheme of encouragement. This would mean that the Government's obligation still has 7 years to run, that is until 1974. 
I can point out only that I am at a loss to understand why the Board selected 1974 in its 1967 report and now reduces the period by 2 years in determining the finishing period of the Government's obligation. Why did the Government see fit to reduce its period of obligation from 20 years to 18 years? 1 turn now to the question of defence and matters of foreign exchange and ask the Minister whether, at any time, he or the Tariff Board gave consideration to ensuring that Australia had a secure source of supply of sulphur, independent of any world shortages, for at least a portion of its requirements of this essential commodity. 
Up until now no worthwhile sulphur domes have been discovered in association with natural gas deposits in Australia, and there is every indication that none will be discovered so we will be dependent on imports of sulphur from overseas. Surely, in circumstances such as these, we should encourage the development of our natural resources. Practically everything we touch or use has, at some time or other, come into contact with sulphuric acid. This is apart from its use in the manufacture of our superphosphates which are vital to the primary industries which are still a highly important sector of this nation's economy. Both secondary and primary industry would run down quickly if, by the action of the Government, we were to be made wholly reliant on imports of sulphur and if, at any time, those overseas supplies were cut off. 
On the question of foreign exchange, I point out that North West Acid uses the equivalent of 140,000 tons of imported brimstone each year, and by using the indigenous material the company is saving this nation about $5m a year in foreign exchange. Surely this should be taken into consideration when the Government is determining whether it should continue bounty payments. I maintain that as Australians we should develop our own natural resources and not leave it to others. In this regard I am proud of the expansion, development and increase in job opportunities that have resulted from the commissioning of the acid plant at Burnie in Tasmania. This much needed boost to our island economy was felt on the west and far north west coast of Tasmania. The Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Limited zinc mine at Rosebery and the Mount Lyell Copper mine at Queenstown agreed in mid-1968 to supply 150,000 tons of their by-product, pyrites, to their joint venture company, North West Acid. Both companies had to set up new flotation equipment, including ancillary facilities and to arrange for the indigenous material to be transported by the Emu Bay railway to Burnie. 
Here again, new job opportunities were created for construction workers, railway fettlers, transport drivers and so on. Seven new locomotives and 69 concentrate wagons have been acquired. Pyrites from the mines is carried in unit trains of 25 wagons with a capacity of 40 tons each. The 70-mile track between Rosebery and Burnie has been improved considerably with sections of the line replaced and some pans straightened. The track also has been extended 13 miles south of Rosebery over a stretch disused for many years to receive pyrites from Mount Lyell at a siding 5 miles north of Zeehan. Up to this point the Mount Lyell pyrites' is transported some 20 miles from the mine in articulated lorries. Unloading and storage facilities had to be constructed at the Burnie terminal. A transport company has a contract to take pyrites by lorry to the acid plant. Apart from all this, the acid plant itself employs 100 men in full-time employment and the weekly salary of its work force is an important factor contributing to the economic well-being of the town of Burnie. 
I want to sum up very quickly before I refer to the question of compensation if the bounty payments are suspended. I maintain that the Tariff Board report is completely out of date. Its figures are unrealistic now wilh the transformation that has taken place in the industry, with the very low costs of elemental sulphur from overseas and the low freight cost to get it here. We' need protection because we do not want to be wholly dependent on overseas supplies. We need the savings of foreign exchange. As I pointed out, this amounts to some $5m a year. I think we should encourage the use of our own natural resources. This request for an extension is strongly supported also by  Mr Harris,  General Manager of Adelaide and Wallaroo Fertilisers and  Chairman  of Sulphuric Acid Pty Ltd, Largs North. South Australia, which employs 75 men. It is supported also by Nairne Pyrites Pty Ltd of Brukunga, South Australia, which employs 60 men. These are well established local industries in South Australia using local natural resources, and their future should not be put in jeopardy now by a report based on out of date statistics. 
I come now to the question of compensation. I pointed out that the cessation of bounty, if the Government goes ahead with it, must put Mount Lyell and North West Acid in a very unfortunate financial position with a loss of revenue. I point out that there is nothing in it from now from 
Mount Lyell's point of view. To illustrate this I refer to the financial statement of Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. Its return on the sale of pyrites in 1969-70 amounted to $380,800. Production costs and expenses on winning this amounted to $491,638. So there was a loss of $110,838 on the operation. Even if we take into account depreciation on plant of $42,000 and the amount of $133,743 received in bounty payments between January and June 1970, the whole operation on 26,657 tons of concentrate ended up in a loss of $19,122. If the bounty payments are taken away, as I said, the company will be in a very unfortunate financial position. 
I do not know how the Government will work out compensation, but I only hope to goodness that it will be fair, because I think it will be more than the $2m that was referred to in the Tariff Board report. I hate to think how the Government will compensate the 60-odd people at Nairne in South Australia and the people who will be put out of work in my State. They cannot be compensated enough if, by Government action, they are put out of work altogether. Mount Lyell alone has spent $1,134,500 in buildings, plant and machinery and additional stocks to go ahead with an expansion programme to supply pyrites to North West Acid at Burnie. 

 Mr GILES (Angas) (3.58&gt;- As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr 
Patterson) stated, the use of pyrites or indigenous materials for the making of acid in terms of the treatment of phosphate rock owed its origins, its original impetus, to the action of this Government back in the early 1950s when it actively promoted the thought that it was necessary during those times to produce sulphuric acid or pyritic acid for that purpose. One of the earliest groups to take up this challenge and do something about it for the sake of the nation at that time was a collection of companies in South Australia which took up a quarter share each in the company that became Nairne Pyrites Pty Ltd. They were Wallaroo-Mount Lyell, Adelaide Chemical, Cresco and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Subsequently there was an amalgamation of the first two, which became Adelaide Wallaroo Fertilisers Pty Ltd, who now own a half of those shares. The managing agent and quarter owner was BHP. As I will explain later, this is important in relation to any redundancy that could occur. 
By 1951, very shortly after the point of time that I have just described when the company was formed, building was commenced and production got under way ;n Nairne Pyrites in 1955. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a simple chart on the production of pyrites which appears at page 5 of the Tariff Board report. 

<graphic href="074131197111042_46_1.jpg"></graphic>

I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that clause 3 be postponed as an instruction to the Government to provide for the payment of the pyrites bounty to be extended until 31st December 1974. I will be very brief in my remarks because I do not wish to refer to matters that have already been covered. I simply want to point out to the Minister that this bounty was introduced as an encouragementto the industry back in the 1950s. One of the 2 companies affected by the bounty payment is the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd in Tasmania. That company expected to be protected by an obligation on the part of this Government for a period of 20 years from 1954-55 to 1974- 75. This company has now become the victim - and I do not like to use these words as I said a while ago - of double dealing because since 1968 it has supplied pyrites for the manufacture of acid in order to try to keep this country independent in its supplies and it has used natural resources in this field. 
The Mount Lyell company entered into an arrangement with Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Aust. Ltd at Rosebery for the supply of 150,000 tons of indigenous material for the manufacture of 140,000 tons of acid at Burnie, thereby resulting in a saving for this country of some $5m in exchange rates alone. As well as providing job opportunities in areas where previously they did not exist this company has been a boost to the economy of the town of Burnie and to the rehabilitation of a railway line of some 80 milesfrom the Melba siding to Burnie. It has also used in manufacturing production a by-product from a mine at Queenstown. All this is now to be tossed overboard by the action of this Government in accepting the recommendation of the Tariff Board. The Tariff Board has gone back on its word. That is what it means. The Government is guilty of double dealing with the Tariff Board. This is one company which has now been placed in this position by a Government which says that it believes in a liberal approach to industry, by a Government that says it believes in a fair deal and by Government supporters who stood in their places here today and said that they were encouraging employment opportunities. But what is the Government doing now? Here is an opportunity for the Government to encourage the use of, and to go on using, natural resources of this country. What does this Government want to do? 
It is estimated in the Tariff Board report that compensation for these industries will cost $2m. The industries are saving this nation $5m a year in overseas exchange on Australia's balance of payments. Surely mathematically it is a good investment for the Government to continue with the payment of the bounty on pyrites used in the manufacture of sulphuric acid. I am sorry to be in this house today and be witness to the action of the Government which intends to sound the death knell on a very very important industry which uses the natural resources of this country. It is a complete sell-out and I do not like it. It is the last appeal I will make to the Government to at least go back to the Tariff Board and to say: 'Well, what was said in 1967 is all right.' After careful research the Tariff Board in 1967 said that the Government would have an obligation until 1974. Why does not the Government accept that recommendation and its obligation of those days to continue the protection of these industries until 1974? 
Why should the bounty be paid only until 1972? Why did the Government sit on the report? Why did the Government have it for 3 years? What did the Minister do while he had it in his office for over 11 months before he brought it out? Is this the way to treat industry? Is this the way to help old established industries in this country? Is this the way to encourage new industries to set up their operations and to help take up the slack in unemployment in this country? I do not think it is. As I said, I am very sorry to be a member of this House today to witness the action of this Government towards an industry that has done a tremendous amount for the development of this nation. I strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson that the bounty payments ought to be extended to at least 1974 and that in the meantime the Government should instruct the Tariff Board to have another look at the industry. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  quite rightly referred to the Tariff Board report and a decision by North West Acid Co. to go ahead with its operation when plans were set up in 1968, bearing in mind of course that it had a contract. Conditions have changed a great deal. I remind the Minister that the amendment relates to the pyritic by-product from the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd that is used in the manufacture of acid irrespective of whether the acid is made by North West Acid Co. at Burnie or whether it is made when it attracted bounty before, when the Government introduced a bounty to support this industry back in the 1950s. 
The Minister acknowledges this fact now. 1 am not arguing on behalf of North West Acid. I am arguing wholly and solely a case for the continuation of a bounty payment to Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. at Queenstown for pyrites used in the manufacture of sulphuric acid irrespective of whether it is made at Burnie by North West Acid or whether the plants are reconstructed or rehabilitated in Melbourne where the acid was made before. My argument has nothing to do with North West Acid; it is based wholly and solely on the viability and the economic use of the by-products from the operations of Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. at Queenstown. I simply point out to the Minister and to the Committee that this is quite a valuable byproduct. 
It is a wonderful thing in this country - I have discussed this with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - to see industrial by-products being brought into some form- of useful production in industry. The only use for pyrites is in the manufacture of sulphuric acid and it is for this reason that I am arguing on behalf of Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. for the continuation of the bounty on pyrites. It is unfortunate for the company that the bounty provisions will be discontinued next year. It is most unfortunate from a financial point of view for this company that its investment of over $lm in plant and equipment for the upgrading of pyrites production as a by-product of its copper operations is now to go to the wall. Again I suggest to the Minister that the Government should give this matter further consideration. However, it is obvious from his reaction that the Government will not. I go along with what was said by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  Frankly, I do not think that the Govern ment has studied this matter. I do not wish to be disrespectful in any way to anyone but I realise that this is not the Minister's portfolio. He has another job to do. I really do not think that the Government has given sufficient consideration to this matter. If the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment moved by the Opposition - there will be a vote on it - by the time it goes to the Senate we hope to have convinced certain senators of the value of the amendment and that we will be more successful there. 
I conclude on one other note and that is to reply to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  He talked about the us? of emotion. If he is referring to me, I will speak as I feel I should in this Parliament. When I think that industries and families will be affected by a decision of the Government I will speak as I feel and as I want to speak. The honourable member spoke about the economic use of industry and for his benefit I commend him to study - if he has done any homework in this matter, although I doubt it - the publication of the British Sulphur Corporation Ltd which is a very respectable journal. If the honourable member examines Sulphur Journal No. 89 of July-August 1970 he will find an excellent article on the Tasmanian Pyrite Acid Project Commission. He will find it full of very worthwhile praise and commendation and he will see that an economic feasibility study has been done of the plant that was established at Burnie. 
I think the honourable member might have second thoughts on his comments concerning the economic use of industry. He more or less implied that this is an economic concern and that as such it should not be bolstered by bounty payments from this Government. The Government is giving some $40m to the dairying industry; I support this. In return we will get about $100m in overseas earnings. They are not bad odds - about 3 to 1. Any punter would be happy to receive these odds at the racecourse. This is what we will receive from our investment by way of bounty payments to the dairying industry and I think that it is worth while. The Government is to be congratulated on continuing these bounty payments to the dairying industry because it reaps something in return for this country. 
J am not an economist and I simply ask the Minister to go back to the Tariff Board or to someone in the Department of Trade and Industry to find out just how much is paid out in bounty and then find out what the Government will save in overseas exchange on the other side. Of course, to this figure would have to be added the amount of compensation which would have to be paid. The honourable member for Angas mentioned some matters in relation to compensation that need consideration. Many factors are involved and I feel that the Government will be up for a considerable sum of money - much more than the Tariff Board mentioned in its report. The Company just cannot take all this plant and machinery that has been specially obtained and set up for the grinding of ore for pyritic production and sell it anywhere. It must be compensated if the Government is to put it out of operation. There will be a tremendous bill if the Government really settles down to meet its obligation to the industry as it should. However, rather than think that that will be the case I again ask the Government if it will examine this question. If it does not accept the amendment to extend . the bounty provisions until the end of December 1974 on which we intend to vote this afternoon, at least let it have another look at the problem in view of the various statements and propositions which I have made on behalf of an industry with which I have been in close contact over many years and for which I speak in this Parliament. I am very proud to be able to puts its case even though it sometimes falls on deaf ears. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  whether he will kindly give me an explanation of an item on page 87 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72. Under sub-division 3, Other Services, provision is made in item 04 for financial assistance for the Melbourne-King Island shipping service. The amount appropriated under this item in 1970-71 was SI 60,000, and that was the amount expended. I note that the estimate for 1971-72 has been reduced by $70,000 to $90,000. I ask the Minister what connection this has with the construction of a new vessel the 'Straitsman', by R. H. Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd in the Cairns shipyards in north Queensland. It is a vessel of 1,000 tons which we arc all anxiously looking forward to coming into service some time, we hope, in February. 
The subsidy given to King Island commenced in 1964-65 at a time when it was urgently needed by the Island people. I did a great deal of work with the Island authorities at the time compiling statistics which indicated that the rail and road freight rates to Melbourne from places the same distance from Melbourne as King Island is from Melbourne were certainly much lower than the sea freight rates on goods carried between King Island and Melbourne. The Government provided for the 'King Islander", the vessel which has provided a marvellous service between King Island and Melbourne, a subsidy which was originally $5 a ton for general cargo. That subsidy has been reduced over the period since 1964-65 to $3.35 a ton for general cargo. The Government also gave a subsidy on cattle and sheep that were carried on the ship to the port of Melbourne. It meant the salvation of primary producers on the Island and brought a great deal of stability to the Island. We have always been grateful to the Government for the shipping subsidy that has applied to the 'King Islander' since 1964-65. I believe that since the subsidy was introduced about $lm has been paid out. 
I am concerned at a possible reduction because even though the 'Straitsman' is due to come on the service in February and will provide a triangular service between Stanley, King Island and Melbourne, the 'King Islander', which I said has provided a wonderful service over the years, will be retained in the service. As the subsidy was originally given exclusively to that vessel, I wonder whether the subsidy will be continued with the introduction of the new vessel. It is for this reason that tonight I have asked the Minister why there has been a reduction in the estimates under this item of some $70,000. We are anxiously looking forward to the introduction of the 'Straitsman'. Port installations at Stanley have already commenced, and the service will be a tremendous boon to primary producers in the far northwest corner of Tasmania, because with 5 services a fortnight they will have access now to the Melbourne markets. 
Because this is the first opportunity I have had to do so I would like to refer to a report - the Minister may know the cost of it - to the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Tasmania on a King Island shipping subsidy which was compiled by Macdonald, Wagner and Priddle. The cost of the report was borne on a dollar for dollar basis by the Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport and the Government of Tasmania. Quite honestly if I were the Minister for Shipping and Transport I would sue these consulting engineers for the return of any money they received for this report. The report is simply a mass of tables which anyone could obtain from various organisations in Tasmania and on King Island. There is no consideration in it of the triangular service linking King Island with Melbourne and Stanley. No consideration is given in the study to the possibility of building a port at Grassy. The report mentions firms as having been interviewed, but I know for a positive fact that they had no consultation whatever with this company. I refer to such bodies as the Marine Board of Circular Head, the Duck River Co-operative Butter Factory Co. Ltd and Hardwoods (Australia) Pty Ltd, who were listed as having been consulted in the compilation of this report when in fact the principals of those factories and the Marine Board of Circular Head, which has its office at Stanley, had no contact with this company. 
I was very pleased - as a matter of fact everyone was - that Peko Wallsend, which had come on to the scene and taken over the scheelite mine at Grassy on King Island, consulted Maunsell and Partners, consulting engineers of Melbourne. This firm came up with a report recommending the construction of an all weather port at Grassy on King Island. The Government then called for a second look at the Macdonald, Wagner and Priddle report as against the Maunsell and Partners report. I am very pleased that eventually both the Commonwealth and the State Government, but the State Government in particular, accepted the recommendations of Maunsell and Partners and that an all weather port at Grassy has now been completed and the installations are under way. It was good to see the other day that the 'Joseph Banks' was able to get into this port and shelter. 
Peko Wallsend is to be congratulated for the work it has done. It has spent $500,000 on capital equipment for the construction of the breakwater. This meant the taking of millions of tons of overburden from the mine to build a breakwater which extended from the shores some 1,600 feet out to connect up with an island. Overburden and great rocks and boulders were dumped into water up to 50 feet in depth. It was a great day when the final load was delivered across the breakwater and connection was made with the island. The port of Currie on the other side of the island has served the island very well, but the channel is far too narrow and far too dangerous. Many times the 'King Islander' and other ships which have used this port have been held up in there for days at a time because of the weather; it has been impossible to get in and once in sometimes it has been impossible to get out. Goodness knows how many times the 'King Islander' has scraped its propeller when it has attempted to get in to service the island. 
In the few seconds left to me, as I did when the late Frank Mercovich passed away, I pay tribute in this Parliament to the work he did as General Manager of the Australian National Line. Briefly but very sincerely I pay tribute to  Sir John  Williams, who has just retired after 15 years as  Chairman  of the Australian National Line. I pay tribute to him for the wonderful work he did in the great advancement of the national line in this country. When he took over the Line we were spending $600,000 a year in subsidies to a private shipping company to provide a service to Tasmania. Now, of course, we have 3 vessels and a cargo vessel on Bass Strait every day. 
1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That 'Lake. Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness areas are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of  a  value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural site. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Primary Industry whether he has received submissions from the Australian Dairy Industry Council relative to the 2- price quota system for dairy products. Does this scheme envisage the registration of producers and the control of production? Will the plan be submitted to all dairy farmers in Australia for consideration before acceptance and implementation of the scheme on a national basis? 
The Bill before the Parliament provides for additional finance, totalling $4m, for war service land settlement in the agent states of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The scheme has dragged on and on and makes a mockery of the prediction by a former Minister in charge of war service land settlement, the later  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes who in 1954 said, when introducing a Bill such as the one now before us, that the scheme would end in 5 years. Despite this prediction, the scheme has dragged on beyond 1959 for a further 12 years  -  17 years in all - and the deception practised in setting rentals and valuations has gradually emerged until it is now crystal clear and warrants the inquiry sought by the Opposition. 
Each year we go through this routine of reviewing the progress made under the scheme and over the years we have been able to get the Government to accept some recommendations, such as re-development, which have been of some assistance to the settlers concerned. Over the years, too, I have been an advocate for the release of option of purchase prices, long before redevelopment, because I have maintained time and time again in this House that this would have meant the 'green light on the hill' for the settlers. They would have known where they stood instead of being crippled with the burden of high rentals and annual commitments year after year while the option of purchase price was deliberately withheld from them. I hope to indicate as I develop this theme that it was deliberately withheld from the settlers. 
In the debate on the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill last year, I referred to a committee of the Legislative Council which had been set up by the Tasmanian 
Parliament last year to inquire into war service land settlement with the following specific terms of reference: 
The administration of war service land  settlement  in Tasmania in relation to the amount of rent and other commitments demanded from settlers and the option of purchase price of properties. 
The responsibility for and the basis upon which opinion prices should be determined. 
Whether the basis of fixing option prices preserves sufficient equity to settlers, having regard to the effluxion of time since holdings were occupied. 
The committee was indeed well qualified for the job. The  Chairman  was  Hon.  C. B. M. Fenton, a member of a pioneering farming family in Circular Head, Tasmania, with properties in the Smithton district and at Temma on the west coast, and a person well versed in the problems of war service land settlement, because the main problem areas of Preolenna, Mawbanna, Togari and King Island are within his electorate, as indeed they are mine. The other members of the committee were Messrs Dixon and Hodgman, 2 prominent lawyers, qualified to study the legal ramifications of the war service land settlement agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania;  Mr Foot,  a qualified accountant, to probe the bookkeeping methods employed by the Authority; and Messrs Shaw and Cairns, 2 successful farmers, with  Mr Cairns  holding the post of  chairman  of the butter producing factory in his area and being head of the local government organisation in Tasmania. 
Before dealing with the committee and its findings, I wish to refer to an earlier committee on King Island, which up until now has been treated as 'Confidential'. However I am advised that the ban now has been lifted and that the Select Committee of the Legislative Council, in its report tabled in August 1971, refers to this earlier committee. This earlier committee consisted of a chartered accountant, the Principal Research Officer of the Commonwealth Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Assistant Under-Treasurer o.' Tasmania, a representative of the King Island Settlers Association and the Accountant from the Agricultural Bank of Tasmania. Honourable members will agree thai it is quite an impressive line-up. The committee found, after analysing the average costs and returns of dairy farms for the years 1957-58 to 1961-62 - I should like honourable members to take particular note Of the commencing year 1957, because that was when Tom Colquhoun put it over the State of Tasmania - that the average settler had, after providing for a living allowance of $2,534, a balance of, $80 a year from which he was expected to pay rent, interest and capital repayments to the Authority over the 5-year period, with payments of $308 during the last 3 years of the period to meet these commitments. These findings are set out on page 36 of its report, which is marked 'Confidential' but from which, as I said, the wraps have been lifted. 
In ils findings, the committee reported that settlers on dairy farms on King Island could reasonably have been expected to pay only $200 a year to the Government for the 5 years from 1957 to J 962. Now we know why the report was classified as Confidential'. lt was because the Government warned it hushed up. The Government had no intention of reducing rentals to an economic figure., despite the findings of the competent group of experts to whom 1 have referred. The Tasmanian Government had vested control of war service land settlement in the Closer Settlement Board and it asked the Board to comment On the committee's findings in 1964. The Board recommended that rentals be adjusted &gt;u a more equitable scale, but thu Commonwealth authorities just were not interested. They had other plans in mind. We naturally ask: Why was the Common.wealth not interested? For years now, I have maintained that the Commonwealth has insisted on high rentals and commitments in order to reduce the 'write-off' and I am pleased to note that this is borne ou! by the findings of the Select Committee of the Legislative Council. 
Under the scheme, the excess cost of development was written ofl', if the cost of development exceeded the capital value of the farm. This excess or loss was to be shared as to 3/5 ths by the Commonwealth and as to 2/5 ths by the agent State. The bill to be borne by Tasmania as its share of the loss is now $ 12.7m. I agree with the Select Committee that the high level of rents insisted on by the Commonwealth was an important factor in increasing capital valuations and reducing the loss on developmental cost and subsequent write-off. I maintain that in order to satisfy any criticism by the Treasury of the everincreasing amount of *write-off' the Commonwealth, through its Authority, kept insisting on higher and higher rentals. One has only to consider how the Commonwealth set the rents. It looked at the farm and worked out a budget. It estimated the profit that the farm was capable of making  and after providing for commitments on advances and a living allowance for the settler it considered that the balance should be available as the rent for the farm. 
The Authority then took this rental figure and multiplied it by 40 to give the capital value. If the rent or the balance was $600 the capital value became $24,000. The higher the rents were fixed - that is the amount that was left over after the settler received his living allowance and so on and these were set by the Authority on its budget figures - so the higher the capital value and the less the write off value. Honourable members can see why the earlier report was hushed , up. The Committee found that these settlers between 1957 and 1962 had only $200 over. When that figure is multiplied by 40 the farms on King Island would have had a capital value of only $8,000. The influence of Treasury can be seen much clearer later - as I have stated before and will repeat again tonight - in trying to have the option price related to this inflated rental based capital value in order to avoid a further write off. 
If an inquiry was needed before then there is a pressing need for one now. I must agree with the Select Committee of the Legislative Council when at page 10 of its remarks it staled: 
As a  level  of rentals of 21 per cent of capital value of a holding was adopted by the authorities, the normal and equitable method of calculating the amount payable on this basis should have been lo rim! the capital value of the holding assessed by accepted valuation procedures, deduct therefrom the cost of structures and take 21 per cent of the result as rent. Working in reverse, to calculate capital value from an arbitrarily assessed rent may he an easy system of determining the write ofl' of development losses, but when its unrealistic impact affects the settler unfairly, this method cannot be condoned. 
Surely in view of this indictment by a competent and impartial inquiry, instituted by an agent State, the Commonwealth must now set up a select committee to investigate the basis of rentals charged in the past, whether these were reasonable and, if not, the extent to which reduced rentals should apply retrospectively to the date of the allotment of the farm to the settler. I refer those who wish to check this method of fixing rentals to page 22 of the transcript of a judgement given earlier this year by  Mr Justice  Bright in the case of Henrich v. Dunsford in South Australia. After considering the new set of conditions sent to South Australia by the Commonwealth Minister on 30th July J953  His  Honour summed up the position as follows: 
So the real was  to  be  2i per  cent of the capital value based on productivity with some prescribed deductions and additions. 
I have outlined the basis of fixing rentals on the budget basis. T now turn to the change in fixing rentals as demanded by the Commonwealth authorities on 9th March 1956. This is what I  meant by the  interjection which I made when the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was speaking. Despite strong opposition from the Closer Settlement Board in 1956 and final acceptance, reluctantly, only after several months of correspondence, the new increased scale based on per cow equivalent in. the case of dairy farms or fat Iamb equivalent in the case of sheep properties was finally agreed to. The closer settlement Board maintained, in fact, that the rentals should have been reduced to what is known as the third valuation or $198 per cow equivalent for the calculation of capital value from which rental was assessed as 2i per cent of that capital value. To illustrate this situation and the effect on rentals I point out that a dairy farm on King Island carrying 57 milking cows at a No. 3 valuation of $99 per cow equivalent paid a rental of $366. At the No. 4 and No. 5 valuation of $110 per cow equivalent the rental was $405. The new 1956 scale arranged by this Authority and by the Commonwealth and forced on to Tasmania increased the rental to $470. For a dairy farm with a carrying capacity of 57 dairy cows, the rental was increased from $366 to $470. The Committee drew attention to the inequalities in this plan. It stated: 
The variations in basis of calculation that have been imposed have created undesirable and unfair discrepancies between settlers, sometimes in the same settlement. 
For instance,  it  must surely be unfair that dairy farms, with the same assessed carrying capacity and therefore income earning ability, should have widely varying rates of annual rent. 
Six of the dairy farms on Pegarah Estate al King Island are assessed at 57 dairy cows and replacements, and have annual rent;, ranging from J270 to $415. 
I would like the Minister to give me an explanation. Here we have 6 dairy farms side by side, with the same carrying capacity of 5," dairy cows, and their rents range from $270 to $415. Where is the equality or justice in this? The same inequalities can be found in the case of sheep properties. 
This is not confined to the State of Tasmania. I refer to the case earlier this year of Henrich versus Dunsford in South Australia and to the judgment of the Honourable  Mr Justice  Bright.  Mr Henrich  was a soldier settler, and in 1954 his rental was fixed at $400 per year. In 1963 the agent State, no doubt under instructions from Canberra, raised the rental from $400 to S962 per year.  Mr Henrich  made a declaration 'that the latter fixation, $962, was invalid and that the proper rent was $400, or if not, was a sum to be determined by computation either according to a method set forth in the petition or alternatively, according to a method as shall be thought just and in the latter event, he seeks an inquiry'. 
I refer to the finding by  Mr Justice  Bright which is in keeping with the findings of the Tasmanian Select Committee.  Mr Justice  Bright said: 
J find that the proper method of fixing the rental for the petitioner's land was to assess the value in terms of para. 5 (in other words, capital value) and to take 2i per cent of that figure with the adjustments provided therein. 
In referring to valuation - I want to quote this very specifically - he said: 1  cannot find expressly lhat the valuations made were improper.  It  may be that they are completely just and proper.  It  is obvious that  I  cannot adjudge what is a proper rent. But is not clear that the valuations are proper and  I  am justified in directing the attention of the Crown to this matter. 
I ask the Minister: What has he done about this case? The judgment refers to other irregularities His Honour continued: 
I am  therefore  left  quite uncertain whether the rent has ever been properly fixed and  1  am clear that it has never been property notified. 
He went on to say, however, that he had no power to direct the Minister or to order an inquiry. But surely after the comments made by  Mr Justice  Bright and the report by the Tasmanian Select committee, an inquiry of this Parliament s'-ould be held, particularly in relation to valuations and rentals. J have referred to the change in fixing rents which was introduced in 1956. The Select Committee is critical of the former Commonwealth Director, of War Service Land Settlement,  Mr Colquhoun  who appeared before the Committee for 2 days. 1 want to make it clear that the Commonwealth Director was in the witness box for 2 days and he made no reference to the change in rentals upon which he insisted. The report states that he 'failed to inform the Committee that since 1956 all rentals have been determined from a set scale of rentals applying to carrying capacity levels'. The report continues: lt should be slated here that the efforts of the Committee to obtain a clear picture of the basis upon which rents were calculated in the various ureas and at various limes were frustrated and confused by the apparent Jack of frankness by ihe former Commonwealth Director of War Service Land Settlement. f ask the Minister, who in the Department still confuses him regarding the setting of rentals and the basis on which they are set? I have a letter here dated 17th September 1971 in reply to a letter in which I asked ihe Commonwealth Minister how the rents were fixed. I want the Minister to listen to this. This is the basis on which they were set right up to 1956. The letter states: 
In practice, a budget is prepared on the estimated returns and the cost which would be expected to apply to a holding, commitments which had to be met on borrowed capital and a reasonable provision for living expenses. The surplus of the budget would be the sum a settler could afford to pay in rent. 
The Commonwealth Minister is still being advised by the Commonwealth Department - because he wrote the letter - that this is the way in which rentals are being fixed. But the Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania knows different. He knows that the former Commonwealth Director of War Service Land Settlement put the boot down in 1956 ami because of changing economic circumstances on farms - I hope to have a chance to deal with this later - the method o! assessing rentals was changed completely The Munster for Agriculture in Tasmania knows this, but the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry does not. In a letter dated 4th November 1971, the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture says: 
In regard to determination of rentals since 1 956, these are calculated on the assessed carrying capacity of each holding at the maturity of the planned work, based on the average settler management. 
This assessment is then applied to a scale of rentals per Fat Lamb Ewe Equivalent, Dry Sheep Equivalent or Dairy Cow and Replacement Equivalent, prepared by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and supplied by the Commonwealth War Service Land Settlement Authority. 
So the Department told the State Minister for Agriculture one thing and the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry another. This confusion has existed from the date when the method of determination of rentals was changed under pressure from the Commonwealth in 1956. When the Select Committee placed the Commonwealth Director of War Service Land Settlement in the witness box last year - he was there for 2 days - he did not advise the members about the change. The Committee had to drag from some other witnesses the evidence that there had been this dramatic change in the method of assessing rentals. The budget method of determining rentals was scrapped in 1956 because there had been good seasons until then and the profitability level enabled the Authority to get the maximum rental possible. But it set the budget, there was a fair bit over, it took that as the rent, multiplied it by 40 and got a very high capital value for the farm. So the Authority was able to push the capital value up close to the development cost and there was less write-off to satisfy Treasury demands. But when conditions changed mid rising costs, falling prices and lower levels of profitability would have revealed in a budget the inability to pay the higher rents, the method of fixing rentals also charged, despite very strong opposition from the Tasmanian authorities. The rentals were pushed up, despite declining farm income, in an attempt to reduce the write-off and make things look better than they were. 
I turn now to the value or option of purchase prices. There can be no doubt now that the allegations of dummying the figures are correct and no Minister can sit back and close his eyes now. 
-] will not delay the House for long. I agree with the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who said that the purpose of the Bill is to enable the Australian Dairy Produce Board to engage in new markets. There are a couple of observations that I wish to direct to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  but before doing so I should like to refer to the history of the dairy industry, so far asI am concerned. In 1961-62, when Britain commenced negotiations to enter the European Common Market and was told that it would not be permitted to do so, we were informed that we had to diversify and to try to find other markets for our dairy products. From that period onwards - and this is the point to which I come very briefly - we were told by the Australian Dairy Produce Board and by all the market - observers on behalf ofthe Australian  Government that there had been a build-up - of up to 500,000 tons of butter in the Common Market countries. The production of butter in the Common Market countries was being subsidised and butter was being  exported even to the Middle East countries. Despite the efforts of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, butter was being dumped in those Middle East countries at between 21c and 25c per lb. The point is - that if this tremendous build-up of butter stocks existed in the Common Market countries, why were not we advised by people, such as the Australian trade commissioners in the Common Market countries, that this so-called accumulation of butter stocks did not exist? As it transpired, they did not exist. 
I will acquaint tbe Minister with definite facts. Let us say, for example, that in France 25,000 tons of butter were certified in one area. This quantity of butter did not exist, but as it supposedly moved from one country to another country amongst the 6 Common Market countries it attracted a subsidy, there was a book entry, and there was a build-up of stocks. This was the malpractice which occurred in the 6 Common Market countries. Although during the 1960s we were threatened with a tremendous build-up of butter, particularly in the Common Market countries, apparently it did not exist. The premise on which the Government, a couple of years ago, asked the Australian producers to restrict the production of butler to 220,000 tons was not valid. The producers of this country, under a voluntary system, cut back production. The butter factories said to the producers: 'Please do not go over a certain figure'. This false premise on which the Government based its production figures and quotas caused a great deal of hardship to people not only on my area but also in other parts of Australia. 
Many dairy farmers were forced to say to their sons: 'I am sorry, but there is nothing in the dairying business for you*. So they turned to cows and vealers. When it is obvious that the figures produced by the Government showing tremendous stocks in the Common Market countries were incorrect and that those supposed stocks did not exist, one is entitled to say: Surely to goodness the Government with the expert services available to it should have been able to establish that the figures were incorrect. Instead, the Government introduced into the dairy industry restrictions which  caused tremendous hardship for many people. Because .of that the Government  has now sponsored for. the .industry '. a 2-quota system which involves an overall view of the market, demand from, overseas,  plus the home market demand. This system will attract a Government subsidy. Under the dairy produce marketing scheme production above the quotas will not attract a subsidy. I understand that the scheme has been submitted to the Australian Agricultural Council and that the only State that has held out is Tasmania. Perhaps the Minister could correct me on that point. 
It seems that Victoria realises that there is now a world shortage of dairy products. Victoria's attitude indicates that the projections of market demand put forward not only by the present Minister for Primary Industry but also the previous Minister for Primary Industry have been incorrect. Australia is one of the major dairying nations of the world. We employ experts overseas. In addition to representatives of the Australian Dairy Produce Board we have government marketing services and other people employed at great expense overseas. Surely they could have advised us that the stocks allegedly built up in Common Market countries did not exist. 
Dairying production in Australia has been restricted by a certain quota. This meant, in the first instance, that the butter factories asked their suppliers voluntarily to hold production at a certain level and not to expand. We did not have the raw material to produce powdered milk and casein. The prices for these materials were running at an unprofitable level. I do not have the figures with me, but I have pointed out before that the price of powdered milk reached an all time low of about $200 a ton. At this time last year the price of powdered milk was between $400 and $450 a ton. At about this time last year, or perhaps at about April or' May last year, the price of casein rose to an all time high of about $700 to $800 a ton. 
Yes, it is much higher now. We are debating a Bill which will enable Australian dairy produce to enter new markets. On behalf of dairy producers in my area I would like to know why the Government must enter the field and impose quotas. They will not. work. An industry like dairying is dependent upon the seasons. In Queensland, northern New South Wales and Victoria there may be one flush season and then a drought, but over a period 1 would think that the seasons would balance out. I do not think any government should impose restrictions on production as this Government has done. The Government certainly  has done a lot of damage to the dairy, industry in Tasmania by the imposition of restrictions willy-nilly on dairying production. Those restrictions were imposed because of the fear of a tremendous build up of stocks in the Common Market countries, but those stocks did not exist. Trade commissioners and other people are paid high salaries overseas to advise the Government on marketing. Surely they should have known that the supposed build up of stocks in the Common Market countries did not exist. 
I urge the Government not to proceed with the 2-quota system because at present there is a demand for dairy products. Previous speakers in this debate have praised the Australian Dairy Produce Board for entering Asian markets and I also applaud its tremendous effort following World War II. The Australian Dairy Produce Board was responsible for the production of cheese sticks and the introduction of Australian cheese into Japan. That was a great leap forward and worthy of commendation. Cheese displays were organised by the Board in various stores and emporiums in Japan and the introduction of Australian cheese into the diet of the Japanese was a significant development. 
As other honourable members have pointed out, the Australian Dairy Produce Board has entered markets in South East Asia. I have referred before in the House to the combination of Australian condensed milk and overseas labour. With the help of funds from the old stabilisation plan the Australian Dairy Produce Board has certainly done a tremendous job for the Australian dairy industry. I return to the point that I have been making and again ask the Minister on what basis it was assumed that there was a need for curtailment of production. The calculation of stocks in Common Market countries made a couple of years ago caused a great deal of trouble and anxiety to .butter producers throughout Australia, particularly in Tasmania. I believe that it was based entirely on false grounds, it has been proved that the stocks thought to have existed in the Common Market countries did not exist at all. The fact of the matter was that stocks were simply traded from one Common Market Country to another and book entries made simply to attract a subsidy. Surely Australia should have known something about that situation. 
The Government stands guilty of having misled the dairy farmers a couple of years ago when it called for the imposition of voluntary quotas on Australian dairy producers, lt will take a long time for our producers and butter factory managers to regain some sort of confidence in any predictions or information given or requests made by this Government. We have gone through the mill and we know that our people have lost money simply by meeting this Government's request to curtail production in order to achieve these voluntary restrictions. So when the Government asks them again to curtail production in order to meet a certain requirement it will have to come up with some definite proof that the need for it is there. Certainly it has misled these people in the past and they will not put up with it again. 1 commend the Bill because, as the honourable member for Macmillan has said, it does assist the Australian Dairy Produce Board with its new markets. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation advise me of the current position of Aerial Services in Tasmania, having in mind the withdrawal of its operational licence? When can the question of Captain Terry  Burns's  approval as chief pilot be expected to be resolved by the Department of Civil Aviation? Can the Minister give an assurance that the service will be resumed as soon as possible, especially in view of the valuable service given by Aerial Services to the west coast of Tasmania, and the complete confidence in Captain Burns expressed on behalf of all people by the West Coast Municipal Association of Tasmania? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. It relates to war service land settlement. Has the Government now accepted the recommendations given in the Heinrich v. Dunsford case in South Australia and agreed to  by  the. Labor Government in that State and has the Government now adjusted rentals in the State of South Australia? Are these recommendations similar to those of the select committee of the Legislative Council of Tasmania and agreed to by the Liberal Government in that State prior to the recent dissolution of the Tasmanian Parliament? When will the Government introduce the necessary measures to relate valuations of war service land settlement properties to State valuations at the time of occupancy, with rentals based at  2i  per cent of that valuation, to cover all war service land settlement properties in this country? 
I wish to raise this morning the question of soldier settlers. At the beginning I refer briefly to an article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 10th March 1972. Under the heading Settlers Win Long Rent Fight' it states: 
One hundred soldier-settlers near Greenways in thi south-east of South Australia, will not have to pay $100,000 back rent they owe the Federal Government. 
The money was a backlog of payments caused by an increase in rental fees which the Government imposed nine years ago and which the farmers refused to pay, claiming the increases were illegal. 
Yesterday a spokesman for the fanners said the Federal Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  had told them they did not have to pay the money. "They realised after nine years that the increases were unjust," he said. 
It refers to a group of settlers in zone 5 in South Australia. When they went on to these blocks, like other settlers in schemes under Commonwealth control in the 3 agent States, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, they had no commitment to meet for 12 months and they were given a living allowance. In their case the rent was to be fixed within 12 months and this rent was to be adjusted. It was called a provisional rent. There was a ceiling to the rent which could be lowered or raised if any improvements were carried out. 
In 1958 Commonwealth and State officers met and changed the method of rental. They fixed it on a dry sheep equivalent, based on budgetary considerations. In 1963 there were blanket increases in rentals in zone 5 and this led to an outburst of protest. The Government set up a committee of inquiry headed by  Sir Thomas  Eastick. The work of the inquiry resulted in a substantial write down in the rentals, but these were not accepted by the Commonwealth, the reason given by the Commonwealth being that it had not been invited to give evidence. However, I point out that this inquiry, headed by this notable gentleman,  Sir Thomas  Eastick', found that the rental increases were not legal. The settlers then protested to the then Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford, and he offered rentals at various rates. This proposal also was not acceptable to the settlers. 
The matter then went to court and all attempts were made to throw out the case. The settlers invoked the Petition of Right and finally, after a tremendous amount of work, they were able to bring on the case in the Supreme Court of South Australia - it was the case Heinrich versus Dunsford - to test the legality of the system of determining rents adopted by the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry in respect of war service land settlement properties in South Australia. The judgment was handed down in September 1970. It indicated that in the opinion of  Mr Justice  Bright the rents were to be either  2i  per cent of productivity valuations or of the cost. The South Australian State Minister,  Mr Kneebone,  in a statement to the settlers on 25th August last year, referred to the fact that he had obtained legal advice on how to comply with  Mr Justice  Bright's findings in that Supreme Court case. I quote from  Mr Kneebone's  statement, because it is important. He said: 
This finding, as you know, suggested that rents should be fixed on the basis of either cost or a productivity valuation and the rent was to be 2i per cent of these amounts. 
In answer to a question by me yesterday, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  implied that this correction in the determination of rentals applied only to those settlers in South Australia who had refused to sign their leases. Just in case there is any doubt, and to put the record straight immediately on this matter, I refer to a letter dated 13th October last year from the South Australian Minister of Lands to the settlers. In outlining proposals to reduce rentals the Minister said:  1 had also advised the settlers of the following adjustments with which the Commonwealth was prepared to agree: 
I emphasise the phrase 'with which the Commonwealth was prepared to agree'. The Minister continued: 
Settlers still in occupation who had already signed their leases would participate. This arrangement would also apply if a property had passed to the family of a deceased settler. 
No adjustments would be made where a property had been sold outside the scheme. 
I emphasise that the reduced rentals were to apply to conform with the judgment handed down by  Mr Justice  Bright and that the Commonwealth agreed that these proposals would apply also to those settlers who already had signed their leases. I simply point out that if the reduced rentals are to apply also to those who have signed their leases in South Australia there is no reason why the same justice in adjusting valuations and rentals cannot apply to settlers in Western Australia and Tasmania where the Commonwealth has an overriding authority. 
I turn now to the position in Tasmania and I ask the Government to accept the 2 main recommendations of the Select Committee of the Legislative Council of Tasmania. I submit that the Government should adopt these recommendations because the methods of determining rentals and option purchase prices in Tasmania are just as invalid and illegal as they were in South Australia. If ever a royal commission of inquiry were required into war service land settlement, it is now. It would justify the stand taken by the National Executive of the Returned Services League a few years ago when it approached Cabinet and asked for the appointment of a royal commission of inquiry only to be turned down. However, the Supreme Court case in South Australia now conclusively shows that the method of determining rentals in South Australia was illegal and wrong. We maintain, and it has been borne out by the Select Committee of inquiry in Tasmania, that the same method adopted by the Commonwealth authorities in Tasmania, is illegal and incorrect. I ask for the implementation of the 2 main recommendations of the committee of inquiry in Tasmania. For the sake of the record I quote those recommendations. The first reads: 
That, in all cases where the cost of a holding exceeds the market value at time of allotment,  a  new option price shall be determined from the capital value of the holding, as assessed by the State Valuation Branch by the nearest valuation prior to date of offer of holding. 
 The State valuation of structures together wilh advances for improvements at time of allotment shall be deducted from the State valuation to determine trie net option price. 
The second recommendation reads: 
That all rentals on the above holdings be recalculated at an annual charge of  2i  per cent of the new option price determined as above, and that the reduced rentals apply retrospectively to the date of allotment of the holding. 
The Select Committee completely justifies the stand that I have taken in this place over many years, namely, that like that in South Australia the method of fixing option of purchase price and rentals in Tasmania was illegal and incorrect. In the third paragraph of the report of that Select Committee appears the following: 
Your Committee is convinced that a mistake was made when the new Commonwealth scale was adopted in 1956, and the rents demanded since that time are excessive. 
Before 1956 the rentals were fixed on a budgetary basis. The profitability of a farm was looked at and after allowing for a living allowance, operating costs and the repayment of advances the balance of profit was considered to be the amount available for rent. This balance was then capitalised at 21 per cent to give the capital value of the holding. This is the reverse of the method that should have been used. The Act provides for the option price to be the cost of the farm, or the market valuation, with the rent at  2i  per cent of that figure. The budgetary method of fixing rents was changed in 1956 and the Committee was very critical of the apparent lack of frankness of the former Commonwealth Director,  Mr Colquhoun,  in failing to inform the Committee that a change had taken place. It is no wonder a change had taken place because the Payne Committee, whose report was hushed up, found that a dairy farmer would, after allowing for the living allowance and so on, have only S200 left for rent and if that were capitalised at  2i  per cent it would mean that the value of the property was only $8,000. 
As my time has almost expired I make a plea for the soldier settlers in Tasmania and Western Australia and other soldier settlers in South Australia to be given the benefit of the judgment of  Mr Justice  Bright. We should have a new set of valuations and the rentals should be fixed at  2i  per cent of those valuations. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement made by the right honourable gentleman at the end of last year that the increase in subsidies for nursing homes which he announced then was an interim measure. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Is he aware that the flow on from recent increases in nurses salaries granted by the Public Service tribunal in Tasmania last month has placed the future of homes for the aged in that State in jeopardy? In view of the fact that the last increase was classed as an interim measure, I ask the Prime Minister whether urgent consideration will be given to further assistance so that these homes will be able to remain open and continue with their great humanitarian work. 
I wish to raise with the Minister a question that I asked this afternoon. If this is a Liberal Government that believes in free enterprise, why does it not, as it was requested to do in 1967, provide for a proportion of the funds to be allocated under this measure to private foresters? After all, the Government recognises this principle in relation to housing agreements. A proportion of housing funds for the States is set aside for free enterprise, for the terminating building societies, with the largest proportion going to the State governments. Surely a similar principle could be applied to the private foresters. Therefore, in Committee, I simply ask the Minister whether the Government, in relation not to this agreement but possibly to future agreements, will make some provision for private forest development. The banks will not make funds available to these people at interest rates as attractive as those for which this measure provides. The banks are unable to lend at interest rates comparable to those that the Government can permit. Surely the people to whom I have referred are entitled to some consideration. I ask the Minister to intimate why private industrial forests and people who have private forests are not covered by this agreement. 
The House is debating the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1972, which provides for the continuation of financial assistance for a further 5 years from 1st July 1971. I join the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in criticising the Government for introducing this measure through the back door, so to speak. The Government did not acquaint us with its proposals last year so that the matter could have been debated before the legislation became effective. The purpose of the Bill is to expand the rate of softwood plantings. The first Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill was passed in 1967. An amount of $18m was provided by the Commonwealth under the first 5-year plan, and the current programme is expected to cost $21m. Under the Act each State is allocated a base year area of softwood plantings which is financed by the State governments. According to the Schedule to the Bill before us, the base year plantings for the 6 Australian States amounts to 29,680 acres, with the figure for my own State of Tasmania being 2,100 acres. This area is to be financed by the State of Tasmania. There is a scheduled area in excess of the base year figure, with the excess being financed by the Commonwealth. 
The scheduled or net area for the 6 States for each of the next 5 years is 54,680 acres. This means that the Commonwealth will assist with the planting of the area in excess of 25,000 acres, and in the case of my own State of Tasmania, we will receive Commonwealth assistance for 2,500 acres each year, over and above the initial 2,100 acres which will be financed by the State Government. I simply point out, by way of comparison, that under the first Agreement we received Commonwealth assistance for 12,400 acres as against 12,500 acres planted under this new Agreement - an increase of only 100 acres over a 5-year period - despite the fact that the Commonwealth's contribution has now been increased by $3m for the same period. 
I strongly support the Bill because the State governments could not possibly go beyond the base year planting figure if it were not for finance from the Commonwealth. But again, as I did in 1967, I raise the problem of the private forest owners who are unable to obtain finance from the usual sources because the banks will not lend money over the lengthy period required for forestry. Over the periods of 10 years or so for which the banks are agreeable to lend money, they require a rate of interest which forestry is unable to earn. As a result of the non-availability of finance, at least 2 industrial companies have had to reduce their annual plantings considerably, to zero in one case and to one-third in the other case. This has been brought about in order that they may have the finance required for other more essential works such as the installation of very expensive machinery needed to process the rapidly expanding forest production in their developing forests. 
I refer briefly to one big industrial concern that commenced reafforestation 20 years ago in 1951. After 10 years it achieved an annual planting rate of 500 acres and 5 years ago it reached a peak of 1,700 acres each year. This figure was within 200 acres of the base year planting of softwoods financed by the Tasmanian State Government for the whole of the State. I maintain that this private company certainly was playing its part with its own funds. However, heavy capital commitments with a duplication of its paper plant brought about a reduction in the funds available from company sources for reafforestation and now there is a drastic reduction in the acreage planted for pines. 
I personally believe that cheap money should be made available for private industry for plantations on the same terms as it is made available to the States. In making funds available to the States for housing, the Government ensures that a percentage goes to the private sector in the form of terminating building societies, so why not apply the same principle to the forestry agreement? Not only do the State forest services have the advantage of obtaining the use of Commonwealth and State moneys for the purchase of land and the establishment, management and protection of their softwood forests, but also they now receive Commonwealth money free of interest and free of the need for any repayment of principal for 10 years - a concession estimated to be equal to a 38 per cent grant of the investment. In addition, the State forest services do not pay income tax, land tax, or local government rates, all of which have to be paid by the private forest owner and these, especially municipal rates, are increasing steadily. Industrial forestry receives some income tax concession but I believe that all calls on the capital afforestation companies should be allowable deductions for taxation purposes - not just the one-third as is at present allowed. If it is good enough for the oil industry to benefit 1 00 per cent it should apply to afforestation also because by this activity we are providing a crop to reduce our reliance on the importing of forest products from overseas. 
I make it quite plain that I have great admiration for the work done by the respective State forest services, especially that in Tasmania, but I believe as I stated in 1967, that industrial forestry, subject to certain conditions that I have not time to elaborate on now, also should benefit from Commonwealth financial assistance. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the scheme will provide employment in the forest and in forest industries, thereby stimulating employment opportunities in rural areas. Because of rising unemployment, especially in rural areas, this Government has spent millions on rural reconstruction and on proposals for retraining rural workers, with little, if any real, success. 
I suggest that the Minister should confer with his colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and instead of encouraging the drift of population from small country towns and hamlets he should investigate the wonderful success that the Forestry Commission in Tasmania has had with retraining retrenched workers thus saving whole communities, as has been done in the case of the Fingal Valley in the electorate of the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  and at Strahan on the west coast of Tasmania. There is now no unemployment in the Fingal Valley as there was late in 1961 when the coal mines closed down. As with people in small communities all over Australia, the miners had no desire to abandon the homes they owned. State and local government authorities wanted to safeguard the capital spent on streets, water supplies, schools, medical services, stores and power reticulation and to protect the homes of the people. So the Forestry Commission moved into the Valley and began to train for forest work men who had worked underground for years. This is an excellent example of the ability of the forest service to meet the challenge of unemployment in a rural area. 
I have a table of the area planted over the last 10 years together with another table showing the annual level of employment engaged on this scheme in the Fingal Valley. I have discussed this with the Minister and have his approval to seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows): 

<graphic href="078131197205305_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

Table 2 shows the annual level of employment at Fingal since 1962-63. 

<graphic href="078131197205305_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I would like to explain that the reduction in employment from a peak figure of 109 6 years ago to 66 this year has been due to the normal wastage, such as age retirements, sickness, resignations to take up other work, and so on. I repeat that no unemployment has been evident in the main towns in the Fingal Valley - Avoca, Fingal and St Mary's - since the scheme began 10 years ago. The retrained men have built hundreds of miles of roads and fire breaks and dams for fire protection and have done a magnificent job. 
The Forestry Commission undertook a similar scheme at Strahan on the west coast of Tasmania. Here it began training waterside workers when they were thrown out of work when the Port of Strahan closed in 1969. The gang commenced with 12 men In 1969, increased to 20 in 1970-71 and now stands at 18. All unemployed waterside workers have been employed and the reduction to 18 men is due to normal wastage and to the efficiency of the gang. 1 pay a tribute to these men. I was in the area a few weeks ago and watched them at work. They are extremely efficient. They have proved capable of handling the annual establishment of 600 acres of plantation, in addition, the Forestry Commission has built 18 miles of roads and 5 miles of fire breaks during the 3 years of the scheme. Dams for the provision of water for fire fighting have been provided and a fire lookout tower has been built, radio coverage has been provided and forest staff has been increased. This is another very fine example of the forest service meeting the challenge of unemployment - this time amongst waterside workers. 
Many conservationists tend to criticise re-afforestation, claiming that the countryside is first destroyed by bulldozers or fire prior to regeneration or planting. But these people will be pleased to know that those plantations to which I have referred were established in the first instance on ancient stabilised sand dunes and on land carrying little to no merchantable timber at this point of time. We hope, of course, that these ventures will be profitable in the years to come. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition aims at the conservation of hardwoods and this naturally entails regeneration of our hardwood forests. I believe that a case currently is being reviewed by officers of the Department of National Development and the Commonwealth Treasury for financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government because there is no doubt that an additional flow of money will be required, especially in Tasmania. No formal work in regeneration was carried out by the Forestry Commission in Tasmania until 11 years ago. In the past 11 years some 22,200 acres of high quality dense understorey forest has been regenerated by the Commission. In addition to this many thousands of acres have been regenerated by private paper companies such as Associated Pulp and Paper Mills in the area south of Burnie and by Australian Newsprint Mills Pty Ltd in the Florentine Valley. I must emphasise that the areas treated were limited and are still limited by the availability of funds. Now that APPM's chip mill is about to commence operations in the Tamar River area and the other chip mill at Triabunna is in full operation, it is obvious to all that a very rapid increase in the acreage of regeneration established each year will occur, especially as the areas cut out for saw logging will be re-worked to provide pulp wood. As I have indicated the Forestry Commission regenerated 22,200 acres in the past 1 1 years. With both woodchip plants in operation we will have to regenerate that area each year because it is estimated that both plants will cut, in all. over some 25,000 to 30,000 acres every year. Certainly, not all of this is of the dense understorey type of myrtle forest that is found south of Burnie, especially in the Parawee district. Some of the areas on the east coast will regenerate naturally following a light slash reduction burn or from the seed available on seed trees which are retained in the area, or from cull trees not suitable for pulp wood production. 
To obtain successful regeneration, we must remove competition and let in the light for the seeds to germinate. Finance beyond the resources of the State is needed to bring about these conditions. It will cost money to do this, whether the burn method is employed or the bulldozer with its special attachments such as was imported by APPM from America some years ago. The Forestry Commission alone has spent an average of $58,000 a year over the past 1 3 years on regeneration of hardwoods in Tasmania. Now it is faced with completing each year, what it has very capably carried  out over the last 13 years at a total cost of approximately $750,000. Finance of this magnitude is clearly beyond the resources of the State. Commonwealth assistance must be given. This is terribly important to the State of Tasmania. There are 44 country municipalities in the State. The timber industry, from the point of view of both employment and the value of production, is the No. 1 industry in 29 of them, No. 2 industry in 9 of them, No. 3 industry in 5 of them and No. 4 industry in the remaining one. Out of 44 municipalities it is either No. 1, No. 2 or No. 3 from the point of view of both employment and the value of production. In the cities, it is No. 3 in Launceston and No. 5 both in Hobart and in Glenorchy. 
It will be of little use to expand the use of Commonwealth funds to build up forest resources if, on the other hand, the Government continues to allow imports of paper and timber to flow into this country thus endangering employment in these industries. What is the use of building up our forests if New Zealand timber and paper manufactured in other parts of the world are allowed to come into Tasmania? There was an increase of 50 per cent in the quantity of banks and bonds imported in the December quarter of 1971 compared with the December quarter of 1970. To emphasise my point I repeat that there was an increase of 50 per cent in the quantity of banks and bonds imported in the December quarter of 1971 compared with the December quarter of 1970. The paper being imported is similar to the paper being produced by APPM at Burnie in Tasmania, and again I ask the Government to take urgent action to restrict imports. The wellbeing of APPM, which employs about 4,000 people, is of tremendous value not only to the north west but also to the whole northern area of Tasmania and the economic welfare of that State. It is of no use to continue expanding our forest resources if the end result will mean unemployment in the finished products sections of the industry. I again ask the Government to please do something about imports. I have taken up this matter on many occasions with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  but the answers I have been getting have not been satisfactory. I think the only way to gain some protection for this industry is to refer the matter immediately to the Tariff Board. 
In regard to timber products, chaos and the closure of the timber mills would result if timber imports ever rose by 4 per cent or 5 per cent above the present level. 1 realise that efforts are being made now by the New Zealand Government to have mouldings included in Schedule A for the immediate removal of duties instead of waiting for the phasing-out period under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. We have already lost a market of up to 20 million super feet to imported dressed timbers. We export 90 million super feet each year to the Australian mainland and in recent years there has been the change in emphasis to which the honourable member for Dawson referred. Our market for scantling for timber frames for housing in Victorian has grown to 20 million super feet but our overall export figure remains at 90 million super feet. So we have lost about 20 million super feet to imported dressed timbers and, as I have indicated, the industry is traditionally vulnerable in a very sensitive market and any sudden pressure from more imports would cause unemployment on a grand scale. 
I simply repeat that in the case of the finished product of dressed timber and also in the case of paper products, it is not the slightest bit of good to spend $21m, which it is proposed to spend over the next 5 years, unless we do something to ensure that the people who are employed now will have their jobs protected. We do not want this field to ourselves. I know very well people in this industry in Manjimup in Western Australia, in Penola and Mount Gambier in South Australia, and in the Dartmoor district in Victoria, on the tablelands along the eastern coast of Australia. These are efficient people. This is an efficient industry. They put out a first-class finished product. The same applies in the paper industry. But why should we allow imports to flood in? Why should we allow the New Zealanders to try to get more favoured treatment under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and thereby put people out of work? This is something which the Governmust must face up to. 
I support this Bill and the amendment moved by the Opposition which seeks to  protect the environment because irrespective of what the honourable member for McMillan says, this is an important phase of the timber industry. We must always keep an eye on environmental aspects. I repeat that I maintain that industrial forest owners should have access to Commonwealth funds. If this Government is one which believes in so-called liberal enterprise, then surely some part of the $21m should be made available at the very attractive interest rates to the private forest owners so that they will be looked after because, as I indicated earlier, these people cannot make enough out of forestry to meet the interest rates required by the banks. In many cases these people have to turn company money with which to build mills, to increase mill output, to provide paper plants and so on to deal with the increased raw material which they gain from increased forest resources. This Government should look after them in the same way as it looks after State forest services. 1 believe that there should be financial support for hardwood plantings. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In the event of the compulsory conference in Sydney this afternoon not reaching a decision, will the Minister give urgent consideration to convening immediately a conference of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, together with officials of the union concerned and the Australian National Line, in at attempt to avert a tie-up of all ANL ships which, if it occurs, would have very serious effects on the economic life of the island State of Tasmania? 
I ask the Prime Minister: What plans does his Government have to restore the shipping service to King Island - such as, for example, instructing the Australian National Line to charter the vessel 'Straitsman'? If he has no plans, will he give further consideration to accepting the Tariff Board recommendation on shipbuilding to pay compensation to companies like R. H. Houfe and Co. so that the Straitsman' can put to sea again and prevent further irreparable damage being done to the economy of King Island which now has been over 2 months without a regular shipping service? I add to that question by pointing out to the Prime Minister that over 3,000 people are there. They are dinky-die Australians who pay taxes like everybody else and they are entitled to this service. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I am extremely disappointed that no constructive measures have been included in the Budget to come to grips with the problem of unemployment. The present pool of unemployment was deliberately created by this Government in its 1971 Budget. We find, as we did last year, that the people well out on the fringes of a metropolis are the first to be affected. This has happened in the island State of Tasmania. We in Tasmania are the last to feel the effects of any real stimulus to get people back to work. The Premier of Tasmania has sought a Premiers Conference with the Commonwealth in order to have a constructive study of this urgent problem undertaken. Rural unemployment grants are readily acceptable as a short term measure and local councils have been able to carry out some essential and worthwhile projects involving a fair labour content, thus relieving unemployment in these areas. 
These grants favour rural areas but they should be applied equally to metropolitan areas. In Tasmania for the month of July 1972 the number of unemployed rose by 12 per cent over the July 1971 figure in non-metropolitan areas but the rise in metropolitan areas was 70 per cent. Tasmania has the unenviable record of having the second highest proportion - second only to Western Australia - of its citizens on unemployment benefits. That proportion has doubled within a year from .62 per cent in July 19,1 to 1.23 per cent in July 1972. Furthermore, of total unemployment there is a higher proportion of juniors than there is in any other State. The statistics show too that the proportion of juniors has increased during the last 12 months. Whereas the total unemployed rose by slightly over 1,000, from 2,687 to 3,704, the number of unemployed juniors rose from 1,001 to 1,621, an increase of 620. 
Whatever can be said about older people, no-one can claim that young people who have only recently left school can be blamed for not being able to find work. I am extremely concerned about these young people who have had to leave our State and to seek opportunities elsewhere. Not all of those who leave the State can get a game of football with St Kilda. The trend is clearly shown in Commonwealth statistics which reveal that Tasmania has the highest birth rate per thousand of any State. The age distribution tables at the census dates of 30th June 1947, 1954, 1961 and 1966 and the figures estimated for 1970 show that Tasmania has the highest proportion of its population in the under 19 age group. In 1947 the percentage of under 19s was 36.5, 3.8 per cent above all the States average; in 1954 the percentage of under 19s was 38.7, 3.6 per cent above all the States average; in 1961 it was 41.4, 3.5 per cent above the all States average; in 1966 it was 41.7, 3.3 per cent above; and in 1970 the estimated figure - the figure has not yet been determined from the census - of 40.6 per cent shows that Tasmania was 3 per cent above the all States average that year. However, the tables for the next age group, 20 to 29 years, equate with the national average, indicating that many of these young people have left the State at the age of 20 to seek job opportunities denied them through the lack of stimulus and through transport difficulties, both of which are the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. It is not their own fault but is due to mismanagement of the total economy, not the Tasmanian part in particular. 
More than in any other State, high economic activity in Tasmania is bound up with buoyancy in the economy elsewhere, a buoyancy which is singularly lacking at the moment. Whilst the number of unemployed in Tasmania rose by 1,000, the number of unfilled vacancies for males increased by only 1] and for females by 21. So we now have 5 males chasing each vacancy for males and 6 females chasing each vacancy for females. There is very little that Tasmania can do directly to remedy this desperate situation. Certainly there is very little in this Budget to bring any substantial stimulus to the island. More than half of our unemployed females are in the category of clerical and administrative. There are 750 unemployed in that category and the total number of females unemployed is 1,336. There are only 53 unfilled vacancies in that category. In other words, 750 unemployed are trying to fill 53 vacancies. There are 1,676 unemployed males in 2 categories. This figure is out of a total of 2,368. In the unskilled or manual category there are 874 unemployed and 41 vacancies, and in the semi-skilled category there are 802 unemployed and 87 vacancies. This situation will not just go away. As I shall show later, it is more likely to deteriorate further. 
The background paper submitted recently by the Chief Secretary and Minister for Transport,  Hon.  Neil Batt, on behalf of a Tasmanian delegation, to the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  pointed out that Tasmania has resources which are of considerable importance to the national economy. But their development is being inhibited by the difficulty and the cost of sea transport. Added to this difficulty is the general rundown of the economy, the blame for which lies at the feet of the Federal Government. The background paper submitted shows that Tasmania is not progressing as fast as the other Australian States. Already Tasmania has the lowest income per capita of any State, a relatively high unemployment rate over recent years and the lowest rate of population growth. As the Budget Papers indicate, at Federation we had 4.57 per cent of the population of the Australian States, but 70 years later our percentage of population of the Australian States had fallen to 3.07. 
Apart from the general rundown in the economy, there is no doubt that the other factors contributing to this situation are the disabilities of sea transport and other problems associated with Tasmania's geographical location. Not only is it becoming more and more difficult to attract new industries to Tasmania but there is a real possibility of losing existing industries to the mainland. As an island State, Tasmania has only 2 methods of transporting its imports and exports - that is, by sea and by air. Only 8 per cent of our exports are carried by air, and these exports are restricted to smaller parcels of goods. Sea transport is the only effective or practical method of moving the bulk of Tasmania's exports and imports. In this respect our position in the Australian federation is unique, as the other States have road, rail, sea and air services available for use if they are needed. We are entirely dependent upon the services provided by the Australian National Line. 
I refer now to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, which inquired into freight rates on the Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania. It recognised Tasmania's unique position in the Australian federation as regards its dependence on sea transport, the high proportion of export trade and the small domestic market. The Committee confirmed - these decisions by the Committee are important ones - that in terms of freight costs Tasmania is at a disadvantage relative to other States and that as an island State Tasmania has no interstate links except by sea and air and in this respect its position in the Australian federation is unique. It also confirmed the inherent inflexibility of shipping which puts Tasmania at a disadvantage in the absence of alternative modes of transport and the fact that the Australian National Line has a special role in Tasmania's trade. 
The Senate Committee recommended that an investigation be made into the feasibility of the operation of a daylight passenger service and the separation of passenger and general cargo traffic. Many people in Tasmania and many tourists who use our passenger services believe, as 1 do, that our passenger ferries to the mainland should operate during daylight hours. This must inevitably result in a considerable reduction of costs to the ANL. lt would reduce the number of stewards, with whom we apparently have a lot of trouble, and it must reduce other costs such as laundry costs, because the linen in the cabins has to be laundered every day when the ship comes into port. Daylight crossings would provide a far better and more enjoyable passage for tourists over Bass Strait than they now enjoy crossing at night time. I make a plea to the Australian National Line or to the Minister in charge of the operations of the Line for this Government to consider introducing daylight crossings between Melbourne and Tasmania by the passenger ferries. I believe that this would result in a stimulus to our tourist trade and would also offset the disadvantages that will flow to us from the recently announced increases for the shipment of cars and caravans by the ANL. 
I wish to refer also to the other recommendation of the Senate Committee that the ANL be empowered to act as a freight forwarder. Freight costs are made up of 3 components: The freight forwarding segment, the sea leg costs - which has the greatest labour cost component - and the port dues levied by the marine boards, which have remained fairly constant over recent years. The cream of the operation lies, of course, in the freight forwarding segment, which increased its charges another 10 per cent earlier this year without any public outcry. Is it any wonder that Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd can offer up to S50m to take over Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, that the Union Steam Ship Co. has been taken over and that vast transport monopolies have been built up in this country. 
Let me give an example. The 'King Islander' for years carried on an excellent service between King Island and Melbourne. The islanders used to go down to the wharf al Currie to collect their goods that came in on the ship. Freight averaged about $12 a ton. When the 'Straitsman' came into service in May the freight forwarders took over the collection and distribution of the freight. The freight rate jumped from $12 to $18 a ton. The shipping company received about $6, from which it paid S2 in port dues, leaving it $4 a ton for the sea leg. The freight forwarders took the cream  -  $12 a ton. Was it any wonder that the islanders were hostile at the sudden savage increase in freight with the introduction of the 'Straitsman'? The freight forwarders were getting 3 times the return that the shipping company received, even though the company has the responsibility for the intensive labour cost component. I would like to know what percentage of the freight costs across Bass Strait represent the sea leg cost borne by the ANL and what percentage is received by the freight forwarders, over whom there is no control. The freight forwarders have the lucrative part of the business. The ANL should be empowered to act as its own freight forwarders. I repeat my belief that daylight crossings should replace the night services now provided by our passenger ferries. 
I turn now to the point I made earlier, that if the unemployment situation is to improve we must have greater protection for our industries. The Country Party has recently criticised the Labor Party's attitude on tariffs, but let me say that we believe in adequate protection of efficient Australian industries against unfair competition from outside. This is far different from the attitude of the Country Party. The primary producers of this country will never forget or forgive the Country Party for destroying the economic viability of the vegetable growing industry both in the mainland States and in Tasmania, but more particularly on the north and northwest coast of Tasmania. Despite strong opposition from the Labor Party, the Country Party has succeeded in phasing out import duties on processed peas and beans from New Zealand under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Growers who today remain in the industry have to accept far less than they received years ago for their labours, and all this despite the increases in costs over recent years. 
We are a protectionist party. We believe in safeguarding employment in secondary industry by a system of tariffs against cheap imports from overseas. I have in recent months made several representations to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  against the imports of paper and requested him to take action in this regard. 1 asked him whether he would follow the lead of the Tasmanian Government and direct Government departments and instrumentalities to use Australian made paper. The Minister said in reply to a question from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  that he would consider making it a condition of private contracts for Government printing work that Australian made paper be used. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sittings for lunch I mentioned that the Minister for Trade and Industry had said that he would give consideration to making it a condition of private contracts for government printing work that Australian made paper be used. But I want to point out something that has happened since then. The Minister's own Department, the Department of Trade and Industry, issues a publication 'Australia Now'. This is a glossy quarterly promoting Australia among influential Americans. The Australian News and Information Bureau in New York has given this important printing job to American printers. As the group general manager of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd,  Mr J.  J. Graham, pointed out recently, the publication 'Australia 
Now' gives an authoritative review of Australia's economy and that being so it should also be a show-case of Australian capabilities. 
The printing industry is our fourth largest industry and the magazine should demonstrate our abilities in the graphic arts, plate making, printing and paper making. The actual printing, if it were carried out in Australia, would cost less than in New York and our printers would do a better job. But price considerations aside, it is important that the money be spent in Australia to benefit Australians - the unskilled workers, tradesmen, primary producers, printers, manufacturers and investors - all of whom are taxpayers in this country. With the work being done in New York, Australian taxpayers are supporting American printers, paper makers, investors and others. I need to point out only that APPM paid $3m in company tax last year and employs 6,000 people who pay income tax to the Government. So we are justified in asking the Minister for Trade and Industry again to grant tariff protection and to guarantee that Government departments and instrumentalities use Australian made paper and also that it be a condition of private contracts for Government printing work that Australian made papers be used. 
Imports are a real threat. Last year, 1970-71, we saw a spectacular rise in the import of papers comparable with those produced at Burnie in Tasmania. These imports are coming mainly from Japan and Canada. The import of banks rose by 66 per cent, bonds by 26 per cent, offset printing paper by 9 per cent and duplicating paper by 70 per cent. The imports from Japan rose by 70 per cent to represent now 44 per cent of the total imports of banks while imports from Canada rose by 100 per cent to represent 22 per cent of total imports. I am indebted to the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service for supplying me with the latest figures available which indicate that the imports for the year ended June 1972 are 53 per cent higher than those for the corresponding period ended June 1971. The impact of these imports and the reduced sales are reflected in the drastic fall in the group profit of APPM for the first 6 months of last financial year. Group profit fell from $2,750,000 to $750,000 and the recently commissioned $27m plant at Wesley Vale in Tasmania is working to only 75 per cent of its capacity. This lies wholly and solely at the feet of this Government. 
In the brief time that I have left to me I refer to pensions and to the need for increased child endowment. Pensions have been increased and I support any move in this regard. However, there is nation-wide support for pensions to be related to average wages with provision for pension increases to keep pace with wage increases. There will need to be further increases in pensions to reach the Australian Labor Party's objective of a single pension equivalent to 25 per cent of the national basic wage. There has been a partial easing of the means test and now because of strong public demand the Government has reversed its earlier stand and imitated the Labor Party's plan to abolish the means test within 3 years. Since the Budget was introduced I have found many people who are critical- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry on behalf of shark fishermen at Stanley in Tasmania. In view of the evidence that mercury in sharks is not from industrial pollution and hence can be expected to te contained at fairly static levels, will the Government take the initiative to raise the legal mercury level for flake from 0.5 parts per million to 1 part per million? Is the Minister aware that the adverse publicity given to this matter has resulted in depressed prices to fishermen? Finally, will the Minister investigate ways and means by which a price subsidy can be given to restore to fishermen the return of 25c per lb, which was the average price in the Victorian market for the last 2 seasons, until such time as some stability and confidence are restored to the industry? 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were debating the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1972. I am pleased to know that the problems of Kangaroo Island, where I have many friends, are to be tackled. This programme will comprise initially scientific investigation of pasture problems that have been encountered, partial rental remission, credit for fodder conservation facilities, recasting of settlers' accounts in appropriate cases, and provision to pay out stock mortgages for credit worthy settlers. I can only hope that any reconstruction work done will not become an added book entry in the debt structure of the settlers concerned. A few years ago the settlers on King Island accepted several million dollars to write off some arrears and to have extensive redevelopment work carried out on their properties. Their incomes had been affected by regrowth of rushes and titree on properties that had not been adequately cleared and prepared before the settlers had been placed in control. We were told at the time, both by the then Minister for Primary Industry and by the settlement authority, that this cost would not be taken into account. But the settlers are convinced that in the valuations which they have received now they are paying for the earlier errors of the settlement authority. 
A similar position exists at the Togari settlement south of Smithton in Tasmania. The Government installed a water scheme costing $64,000 and demanded that the settlers pay in full. The settlers maintained that some of this was included in the option prices from the Commonwealth, but the Commonwealth disputed this claim. We know that it was included in the State valuation figures, as indeed it should be, because a farm - especially a dairy farm - is useless without a water supply However, the Commonwealth later admitted that $33,000 of the cost was included in the total option prices as the water content. The Government is now demanding that the settlers pay the remainder of $31,000 plus $2,000 for improvements - a total of $33,000  -  over a period of years, with interest charges. Ned Kelly was a babe in arms compared with the settlement authority, lt tried to get away with $64,000 as the cost of the water scheme, and then loaded $33,000 in the option prices, so that in all it expected to receive $97,000 from the scheme. Again I hope that any costs incurred on Kangaroo Island will not be inbuilt by devious means into the debt structure of the farmers who are there. 
I turn now to an item that appeared earlier this year in the 'Australian' newspaper. It referred to the fact that 100 soldier settlers near Greenways in the south-east of South Australia will not have to pay $100,000 back rent they owe to the Federal Government. The article pointed out that the money was a backlog of payments caused by an increase in rental fees which the Government imposed 9 years ago and which the farmers refused to pay, claiming the increases were illegal. The settlers said that the Government realised after 9 years that the increases were unjust. This was brought about by the case of Heinrich v. Dunford in the Supreme Court of South Australia. It arose because of a blanket increase in the rents imposed in 1963.  Mr Justice  Bright found for the settlers. He said that the rents were to be  2i  per cent either of productivity valuation or of the cost. The South Australian Government then proceeded to implement the court's findings. 
I want to clear up any doubts which honourable members may have about which section of the settlers was to benefit, in case there are some who still believe that it applies only to those who had refused to sign their leases. On 13 th October last year the South Austraiian Minister for Lands wrote to the settlers outlining the proposals to reduce the rentals. He said: 
I  had also  advised the settlers  of  the following adjustments with which the Commonwealth was prepared to agree. Settlers still in occupation who had already signed their leases would participate. This arrangement would also apply if  a  property had passed to the family of a deceased settler. 
I emphasise that the reduced rentals were to apply to conform with the judgment handed down by  Mr Justice  Bright and that the Commonwealth agreed that these proposals would apply also to those settlers who had already signed their leases. I simply point out that if the reduced rentals are to apply also to those who have signed their leases in South Australia, there is no reason why the same justice in adjusting valuations and rentals cannot apply to settlers in Western Australia and Tasmania where the Commonwealth has an overriding authority. There seems to be no reason why the judgment in South Australia should not flow on to settlers in the other agent States of Western Australia and Tasmania. 
On 12th April this year I asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  whether this could be done. He replied that a committee had been set up to report on this matter. He also said that once a policy had been formulated in respect of the findings of the select committee of the Legislative Council in Tasmania he would let me know of the decision. As time had elapsed, I wrote to the Minister to ascertain whether anything was to be done. I do not know who handles the Minister's correspondence - I see that he is busy talking now and I would appreciate his interest - but somebody certainly made a blunder in this matter. I received a letter from him dated 8th June 1972 in which he stated that, because of the dual involvement of both Commonwealth and State governments in the existing financial arrangements for the conduct of war service land settlement, it seemed most desirable to him that agreement be reached between the Tasmanian Minister and himself before any announcement was made. Anyone would take it from that letter that there were to be further consultations between the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry and the State Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania. This letter was dated 8th June 1972. However, I understand that on the day before that, 7th June, the Minister for Primary Industry had written to the State Minister for Agriculture flatly turning down the recommendations of the select committee of the Legislative Council. 
Settlers in Tasmania consider that they have a very just cause, and if the recommendations of the select committee are not implemented they will certainly put one of their settlers into court to challenge the Government and the administering authority in respect of the method by which both rentals and valuations have been determined. Legal opinion has been obtained, and there is no doubt that the settlers will succeed in their challenge in the courts. However they are reluctant to do this. They hope that common sense will prevail and that the Commonwealth authorities will accept the recommendations of the select committee of the Legislative Council. Those recommendations have been accepted by the Tasmanian Government. It is now a Labor government, but the recommendations were also accepted by the preceding government, which was a Liberal government. The recommendations with respect to the Commonwealth are dealt with in sections 1, 2 and 4 of the committee's conclusions, and for the sake of the record I quote them: 
That in all cases where the cost of a holding exceeds the market value at time of allotment, a new option price shall be determined from the capital value of the holding as assessed by the State Valuation Branch by the nearest valuation prior to date of offer of holding. 
The State valuation of structures, together with advances for improvements at time of allotment, shall be deducted from the State valuation to determine the net option price. The second recommendation states: 
That all rentals on the above holdings be recalculated at an annual charge of 2½ per cent of the new option price determined as above and that the reduced rentals apply retrospectively to the date of allotment of the holding. 
Recommendation No. 4 states: 
That all debts owing to the Board at 30th June 1969 be written off if these can be shown to be due to any clauses referred to in No. 1 of the Conclusions, provided that any credit under the reduced rentals be offset against such debts. 
I have been advocating for many years that the Commonwealth should accept State valuations with provision for structures and so on, instead of the phoney figure which the authority has determined, and that the rental should be  2i  per cent of this figure. I am naturally very pleased that the select committee has more or less justified the stand that I have taken in this Parliament for many years. I point out again that the court case in South Australia resulted from a blanket increase in rents and that the same conditions prevail in Tasmania. The select committeewas very critical of the attitude of the then Director of War Service Land Settlement on the witness stand and for his lack of frankness. The members pointed out that they were frustrated and at various times confused by the lack of co-operation received from the Commonwealth Director. The committee questioned him for some time on the basis of the fixing of rents, but he failed to inform it of the change that had taken place in Tasmania similar to the change that had taken place in South Australia. It was only by acccident that the committee discovered that a change had been made, and it is certainly not to the credit of any Commonwealth officer that it discovered this change. On page 15 of its report the committee states: 
Your committee is convinced that a mistake was made when the Commonwealth scale was adopted in 1956 and that the rents demanded since that time are excessive. 
Because of this I contend that there should be a flow-on of the benefits gained by the South Australian settlers through their court case, and I sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Tasmanian settlers to take a case to court. As I pointed out, there is no doubt that they would win, bearing in mind the judgment in South 
Australia together with their own legal opinion and the findings of the select committee in Tasmania. I point out in all fairness that the Tasmanian authorities attempted to resist in 1956 the Commonwealth moves to increase rentals, but the Commonwealth wielded the big stick and imposed a new set of rentals. This imposition resulted in a great deal of unfairness and great variation in the rentals changed, even for properties in the same districts. Rental for a dairy farm on King Island carrying 57 milking cows increased from $366 a year to $470 a year. Six dairy farms in one district on King Island were assessed as having a carrying capacity of 57 dairy cows, yet the rents varied from $270 to $415. 
Even the then Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Beattie,  could not tell us why dairy farms with the same assessed carrying capacity and therefore with a similar income earning ability should have widely varying rates of annual rent. Even the Minister could not get through the smokescreen thrown up by the then Commonwealth Director. So the House can see why the Director hedged on the witness stand. He was severely reprimanded by the select committee, which was not at all happy with his performance. It is quite clear now why this Government rejected the requests by the National Executive of the Returned Services League for a royal commission. In a letter dated 3rd December last year,  Mr Beattie  advised us that he was unable to offer reasons for the different levels of rentals in the same area. Sheep properties with higher carrying capacities on King and Flinders Islands were worst affected, and their rents increased substantially because of the change made in 1956 by the Commonwealth. I have always maintained, and this has been substantiated by the select committee report, that the rentals were increased as much as possible and I suspect that this was done under instructions from the Treasury to reduce as much as possible the write-off consisting of the difference between the cost of the holding and the capital value. 1 refer now to the question of valuations and option of purchase prices, which is the subject of the amendment moved by the Opposition. The method of fixing these is nothing short of a scandal. In the earlier days of the settlement the capital value of the holding was assessed in a very strange manner. The officers estimated what profit a farm was considered capable of making and, after providing for the various commitments on advances made to the farmer and a living allowance for him, they took the balance and considered this to be the rent. The rent was then capitalised at  2i  per cent. So, for example, if a farm had an assessed rental of $600 the capital value was given as 40 times this figure, or $24,000. This method was changed in keeping with the findings of what was referred to as the Payne report, and it is no wonder that this report has never been published and is still marked 'confidential'. As disclosed on page 36 of the report, the select committee found that the amount that could reasonably have been expected to be available from the income of dairy farmers to meet commitments with the settlement authorities was $200 a year. Even if we do not allow for a figure to meet the advances made to the settler and accept this as the basic rental figure for the scheme used by the Commonwealth Department, the capital value of these farms would have been $8,000. 
When we look more closely into this it is easy to see why all the procedures were changed in an attempt to minimise any further write-down. I could best explain this by pointing out that, where the cost of the farm exceeds the capital value as determined by the budget method that I have mentioned, the excess cost of development is written off. The loss incurred in this is shared between the Commonwealth and the agent State in the proportion of threefifths to two-fifths. The capital value as determined by the budget method served no other purpose than to come up with a figure for the amount to be written off. However, as the committee points out, a high level of rents became a very important factor in increasing capital valuations and reducing the loss on development costs and the subsequent write-off. So later, when the valuation officers set an option of purchase price, we notice that there is a very close relationship between the option of purchase price and the rental based capital value determined by the budget method. The higher the rent that could be demanded, the higher the capital value and the lower the loss on development and consequently the lower the write-off by the Commonwealth and the State. 
The Commonwealth Treasury had a vested interest in maintaining high rentals under the method adopted by the Commonwealth of fixing capital valuations from rents. Right from the start the authorities adopted as a level of rentals  2i  per cent of capital value. They should have calculated the capital value by accepted valuation procedures, then deducted the cost of the structures and taken  2i  per cent off this as rent. However, they chose to work in the reverse manner, much to the detriment of the settlers and the farmers. As the select committee points out, this method cannot be condoned. Whereas we had 170-odd people on King Island in the good days of settlement, now we have barely 70 people in the settlement areas. Even the valuation officers themselves realised that the malpractices were taking place once their reports reached Canberra and this is referred to in a letter on file in the Tasmanian Branch of the Returned Services League. There is no doubt that the legal right to determine the option prices rests with the State Government. There is every evidence to point to the fact that the Commonwealth Government acted illegally in demanding that the option prices should go to Canberra for determination and approval. 
When questioned on this matter at a State Congress of the Returned Services League in Devonport,  Mr Wherret,  the Acting Director of War Service Land Settlement in Tasmania, said that he did not see the option of purchase prices at all because they had to go to Canberra. The implication is that they had to go to Canberra for adjustment. We believe that the only fair method to be adopted now in order to clean up the whole sorry mess is for the Government to accept the State valuation nearest to the date of occupancy. This figure is available and from it we should take the book entry for the advances for improvements and for the value of the structures on the farm in order to determine the option price available to the farmer. 
The annual rent should then be recalculated at  21  per cent of the option price and the reduced rentals should apply retrospectively to the date of the allotment of the holding to the settler. I have given in this House numerous examples indicating how the settlers have been so unjustly discriminated against under the system used by the Commonwealth. Recently I was very pleased to receive a submission from an eminent barrister drawing attention to this matter and I shall refer in detail to some of the cases that he has investigated. He has taken the option price set by this Government together with the structure conversion figure. This is essential to get a fair comparison with the State valuation figure that I will cite and that which is based on the farm as a complete unit. In the first case the Commonwealth value as the debt to the settler amounts to $34,812. The State valuation figure is $25,200. The variation in favour of the Commonwealth is $9,612. In the second case the Commonwealth figure is $34,812, the capital value set by the State is $22,000 and the variation in favour of the Commonwealth is $12,812. In the next case the Commonwealth figure is $34,623, the State valuation is $25,000 and the variation in favour of the Commonwealth is $9,623. We maintain that these figures have been dummied up to suit the conditions imposed by the Treasury. 
I return to the question of rentals and valuations. As one of the Commonwealth valuation officers revealed, the rentals and the valuations were corrupted by Commonwealth officers to suit the demands made by the Treasury. Years of investigation by us, backed up by the court case in South Australia and by the Select Committee in Tasmania, support these charges. Only one course is open to the Government. 
Under the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill, one of the 2 Bills being dealt with tonight, it is proposed to raise the maximum level of the number of bushels eligible for payment at the maximum rate of 80c a bushel in the second year of stabilisation from 4.4 million to 4.9 million bushels. The Government has accepted the proposal put forward by the Opposition last year for a more realistic figure, but we still require an answer to the $64 question. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  and I hope he is listening, to give an answer, if not tonight then next Tuesday, to the $64 question: When are we to get the statutory marketing authority for apples and pears? This proposal was put foward in 1971 and considered at the 81st meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in February this year. I understand that in fact there are 2 propositions, one for a statutory marketing authority which would act in a similar wav to the 
Australian Wheat Board in that it would take the entire crop for both home and export purposes and the other for a statutory marketing authority which would deal only with the export crop. 
I understand that for a while the 6 States were in favour of the propositions but that now the majority of them are not. I am sorry that one of those States which is not in favour of them is Victoria. Victoria is prepared to do anything to stop the sale on its markets of apples from Tasmania. It takes Tasmania's rubbish for juice but is not prepared to take good apples. Perhaps I should have said that it will take them but will insist upon a 100 per cent inspection which makes it far too expensive for Tasmania to market in Victoria as it did until the early 1950s. Victoria claims that it is free of the European red mite but it is about time the Commonwealth did something about having look at this problem. I think it would find that the European red mite is as prevalent in Victoria as it is in other places. This action by Victoria is a political move, as was its action in respect of shark fillets recently when it banned the import of shark fillets into Victoria from Tasmania. 
The third scheme involves a Commonwealth guarantee for an authority established in Tasmania for the supervision of the export of fruit from that State. This has the support of Western Australia. It involves certain financial obligations, such as advance payments for fruit when passed after inspection either on board or on the wharves requiring the use of Reserve Bank finance. There is also to be some guarantee for freight, but in normal seasons there would be no loss because the prices realised for our fruit would cover both advances. However, if the market were to collapse financial backing from the Commonwealth would be essential. While these matters are being worked out Tasmania has decided to go it alone and to the wonderful credit of the Tasmanian Labor Government it has guaranteed for this season a price of S2.60 a bushel. This has restored some of the confidence and I think it has been a wonderful gesture on the part of  a  State government to do this because it has certainly encouraged the growers to stay in the industry at least while some of these problems are being considered by the Australian Agricultural Council which must decide whether it is in favour of some sort of statutory authority. 
I refer to the wonderful speech made by the Minister when he was in Tasmania. In that State his speech was referred to as the 'Put your house in order' speech. The industry took notice of it. It certainly did everything it could, lt got over the multiplicity of marketing problems and did everything possible to meet the requirements of the shipping companies. What did we get? This time $400,000 is to be spread over the whole of Australia. This is only a token support. There is no depth in it at all. As one of the leading newspapers in Tasmania said: 'It is similar to trying to put out a bushfire with a bucket of water'. Leaders in the industry expect that this will be worth about only $360,000 to us. Because of the diversification of the pear industry we have been able to get some very good prices for pears in North America. I shall not quote the details because honourable members can see them on page 4 of the annual report of the Apple and Pear Board. It does not seem as though pears will need any payout price, so of the $400,000 we are expecting that the Government will be called on to the tune of only some $360,000. Many growers and grower organisations look upon the support prices that are included in the stabilisation plan as a form of assistance which took the place of compensation for devaluation. 
In his statement of 18th August last, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that he was concerned about the position of the industry in Tasmania. He went on to detail the amounts given in the way of devaluation compensation since the devaluation of sterling early in 1967. But, as we all know, this was not even enough to keep the industry at its existing level of performance. At that time we were promised that no primary industry would be harmed but, as the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  said at the time: 'The Federal Government has thrown the primary industries to the wolves'. The Minister accused the present Prime Minister of smothering the devastating damage done to our export industries under what he referred to as a flood of high sounding economic jargon. 
Now that he is in the Ministry of course this has gone by the board. Prior to devaluation we were all right. I make the point that this money - these support prices of 47c and 74c - that we will get in respect of the 1972 season is virtually the devaluation compensation that we received for years. The former English pound was worth 25/- when converted back to our currency and the amount received from the sale of our fruit enabled our orchards to function as a going concern. 
Despite Government promises to safeguard our industry when devaluation took place, it gave too little too late and we received 50c a bushel as devaluation compensation. This marked the first great exodus from the orchards. Let me give honourable members some indication of the value of compensation and how important it is to the industry. In 1968 - the first year after devaluation - the average amount that each orchardist received from devaluation compensation was $2,500. The net farm income of growers for that year was $2,700, so devaluation compensation represented practically all of the grower's net farm income. This gives honourable members some idea of how the orchardists were living on the currency difference. As I say, it highlights the dependence of the industry on the currency difference. Devaluation did help but it was not enough and it was nowhere in line with what the industry expected to receive after the promises which this Government had made (hat the industry would not be affected by devaluation. 
The Government then introduced the first year stabilisation plan. There was a basic limitation on fruit forwarded at risk to a total quantity of 4.4 million bushels. This quantity could attract a maximum payment of 80c a bushel. As the quantity of fruit exported at risk goes above 4.4 million bushels, so the maximum rate of payment per bushel is reduced. The payout figure is obtained by multiplying 4.4 million by the 80c and then dividing the total quantity exported from Australia at risk. During the first year the quantity exported was approximately 7.5 million bushels, so when one works out the formula one finds that the support price for the first season amounted to 47c. I simply point out that if the growers were in difficulties with the payment of 50c  after devaluation compensation, inevitably their position worsens when a substitute scheme is introduced which gives them a return of 3c less, or 47c compared with the 50c from devaluation. I make the point that the amount given in the first year of stabilisation - it amounted to a payout of up to 47c on our apples - was nowhere near the 50c we received in 1968 in the first year after devaluation, and certainly nowhere near what we were getting in earlier years. This is why the industry has fallen and the Government must take the blame for it. The returns from the 1971 season indicate a total payment payout on the stabilisation scheme of $2,584,406.46. 
As I have already indicated, the support prices under the scheme ranged from approximately 9c for leganas to 47c for granny smith apples. It sounds a lot but it is only compensation for what the growers were promised by this Government.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard the stabilisation results of the 1971 season. I have shown the tables to the Minister. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I thank the House. When similar legislation was debated in 1971 1 pointed out that we would be receiving less by way of this scheme than by way of devaluation compensation. My fears have proved correct. The exodus after devaluation was nothing compared with the exodus from the orchards after the first year of stabilisation. I know from experience that many orchardists walked off their properties in Tasmania. Auctioneers at various clearing sales have tried desperately to get worthwhile bids but have failed. There has been much criticism from growers as to the level of assistance provided to the industry in the recent Budget. I am personally grateful for any assistance that can be given to the industry. 
I impress on this Government that if at any time there is a shortage of fresh fruit it cannot just say to the people of Tasmania Go and plant apple trees this year because fruit will be wanted next year'. This cannot be done because it takes time for the trees to mature. Everything that can be done by this Government to maintain the industry at a reasonable level must be done. We are grateful for any assistance at all but we certainly do criticise the shortcomings of the present scheme. The Federal Government must accept full responsibility for the depressed state of the industry and for the large amount of unemployment in the Huon Valley which is in the electorate of my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  The Government must also accept responsibility for a great deal of damage that has been done to the industry itself. 
The export figure to be covered by stabilisation has been raised from 4.4 million to 4.9 million bushels. Using the formula to which I referred, based on an export at risk of some 5.5 million cases, in the 1972 season we would have received 67c, but now that the Government has raised the export figure from 4.4 million to 4.9 million bushels we should obtain an extra 7c or up to 74c a bushel for some varieties. When this scheme was first introduced into this House in 1971, the Labor Party moved an amendment to provide that any escalations in the component of f.o.b. prices be taken into account in the determination of the support prices for the different varieties of fruit. The Opposition is moving the same amendment again this year. The scheme is far too rigid. In speaking to this legislation when it was last before the House, I drew attention to the fact that the support prices were set on 1st October 1970, almost 12 months before the season. That is far too long a period of time because unfortunately, as the Minister knows, costs are going up all the time and not coming down. They can rise appreciably in a period of 12 months. They did in the first year of the scheme. The f.o.b. price and the support price linked with it were set on 1st October 1970, but at the end of January or in February the following year we had a 6 per cent rise in national wages. This meant an increase in the wage component in the f.o.b. price of 4c a bushel and an increase of lc a bushel in cool storage charges. I point out again that unfortunately there was no provision in the legislation for those increases to be taken into account. One thing I am pleased about is that this year there has been an average increase of 11c a bushel in the support prices for most varieties. 
I turn to the second piece of legislation we are discussing, namely, the Bill dealing with tree pull compensation. On behalf of the fruit industry in Tasmania I strongly support the amendment moved by the Opposition. We ask that the period in which applications for tree pull compensation may be made should be extended for about 12 months. The provisions of the tree pull scheme for fresh apples and pears stipulate that all applications for tree pull assistance must be lodged by 30th June 1973 and that all trees must be removed by 31st October 1973. Because of these time limiting provisions it may not be possible for many Tasmanian orchardists to avail themselves of this assistance or alternatively to comply with these provisions of the scheme. Estimates made by responsible industry representatives in Tasmania suggest that applications for tree pull assistance may involve upwards of 6,000 acres of apples and pears. The number of individual applications for either partial tree pull or clear fell assistance could approach 300. Because of the means test - the last  speaker  referred to the provisions of the means test - and other provisions of the scheme, each application will require to be thoroughly investigated and reported on so that the Rural Reconstruction Board may be in a position to assess the eligibility of each applicant for assistance. 1 point out to the Minister that on a preliminary estimate the time involved in assessing each application could approach 2 days. At the moment, of course, we anticipate some 300 applications. It can be seen that it will take a considerable time to process these applications. It will become practically a physical impossibility for the limited trained staff to complete their task within the time limit set. This is a problem which is facing the State of Tasmania. The Minister has received representations from the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture. I again make a plea on behalf of Tasmanians tonight for acceptance by the Government of the proposal that at least the period relating 1o applications be extended for 12 months. 
The State has guaranteed a return of $2.60 a bushel, and many growers will stay in the industry until next year because they are anxious to continue. They are people who are dedicated to the soil. They are third and fourth generation orchardists. They do not want to be taken away from their orchards and they are prepared to have a go this year with a guarantee of $2.60 a bushel, hoping that the Government will make some recommendations soon about a statutory marketing authority. If this is the case, when the season ends next May or June the State Government will not have enough time to get the applications in, processed and investigated in time for the people to get on with the work. So I appeal to the Minister again to accept the amendment moved by the Opposition for this extension of time. 
That is not the only problem. We can run into problems in Tasmania with the prevailing weather conditions. In the Huon and parts of Spreyton and other areas some of the orchards are on fairly steep country. If it is too wet we might not be able to operate on the orchards and get the trees out by the due time. Since the economic depression began in the fruit industry and in other rural industries many of the clearing contractors have moved away from fruit growing areas to other areas where work is plentiful. They have taken away their bulldozers. It may not be easy and practicable to bring these bulldozers back to get the work done within the time limit required by this legislation. So I think the Minister should accept a more realistic final date for the lodging of applications for tree pull assistance. The date we suggest is 30th June 1974. 
The average farm is 20 acres. We expect 300 applications in respect of 6,000 acres of fruit. When the trees are taken out what is to happen to the people who have 20 acres? What will the Government assist them to get into that will be a viable proposition? What are they to live on with 20 acres? This is a problem. I am very upset about the means test. I want to go into that in the Committee stage and I want to put up some further arguments to the Minister in support of the claim for the extension of final date for lodging of applications under the tree pull scheme. What has been done in both these measures is not enough. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is obvious that the means test will be very strictly applied. 1 simply ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a question about the Schedule to the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill. In paragraph 2.2 of Part II of the Schedule on page 5 dealing with assistance the Bill states that the maximum rate of assistance will be $350 an acre for fresh apples and fresh pears. Paragraph 2.3 on the top of page 6 states that the Authority will administer the scheme so that the average rate of assistance does not exceed $200 an acre for fresh apples and fresh pears. In other words, on the face of it, the Schedule says that a grower can get $350 an acre for fresh apples and pears; yet in another part the Schedule says that he cannot get more than $200 an acre. 
It is obvious that the means test will be very strictly applied. My colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  who represents a large fruit-growing area and who is now not likely to be able to speak in this part of the debate, and I ask the Minister whether he would please give us some definite information, a Press statement or something more explicit, particularly regarding the means test as it applies to partial tree pull. We understand the qualifications of the means test regarding the clear fell. He was clearly explicit on that a moment or two ago. Growers are coming to us in ever increasing numbers for information about the means test. We cannot get the information - and I repeat that we have a time limit - particularly on that section regarding partial tree pull. If the Minister cannot give us the information here, he might consider the request that we made during the debate at the second reading stage. 
What he said a moment ago amplifies only too well the tremendous technical and administrative problems that will be faced by the authorities in handling the applications and determining the eligibility of people. This has to be done by trained personnel in the field and then the applications have to be considered by the Rural Reconstruction Board. The Board has to determine whether on the basis of the recommendations of the trained man in the field so-and-so is eligible for assistance and just how much assistance he will get. I point again to the fact that although the Schedule states that $350 is what a grower can obtain for fresh apples and pears it also says that he will not get more than $200 an acre. According to the Schedule to the Bill applications have to be lodged by 30th June 1973 and all trees have to be removed by 31st October. The point I am trying to make is that because of the limitations of time very many orchardists in Tasmania might not be able to comply with these requirements. 
I propose an extension of time for the removal of trees under this scheme on 2 grounds. One relates to the staff involved and the other relates to the growers themselves. The applications for assistance will need intensive investigation by trained staff, as the Minister himself outlined a moment ago. The Rural Reconstruction Board has to assess them and give a decision. The difficulty does not apply to other States as much as it does to Tasmania because it is anticipated that in Tasmania we will have 300 applications and that they will cover some 6,000 acres of orchards. It is more or less a local problem affecting our own people. We do not have the trained staff in Tasmania to handle the large number of applications anticipated. It will take at least 2 days to go into each application. If there are to be 300 applications this will involve 600 days work before the applications go to the Board. It is physically impossible for the limited trained staff we have to complete the task within the time limit which the legislation has laid down. 
The Minister said that one of the reasons why he would not extend the time was that next February he had to give fresh consideration to the $100m rural reconstruction scheme and possibly obtain parliamentary approval for its continuation. We are talking about only $2m. This is a drop in the ocean compared with the whole ambit of rural reconstruction. As I said the other night, we appreciate this small assistance very much. Do not make any mistake about it. Anything we can get for the industry is good, but we are at liberty to criticise it. The assistance is limited. The Minister might see his way clear to extend the time limits imposed by the leg islation for another 12 months. The Tasmanian Government has guaranteed growers $2.60 a bushel this season. This has instilled a degree of confidence into the industry. It is a temporary measure intended to apply until the Minister and the Australian Agricultural Council have had an opportunity to consider the implications of setting up a statutory marketing authority. It is a physically impossible task for the trained staff we have to process the applications for tree-pull assistance within the time limit. 
I put to the Minister another aspect of the problem in relation to which the honourable member for Franklin agrees with me. The growers have asked us to put this point to the Minister. With the $2.60 a bushel that the growers have been guaranteed they want a chance to come through this season. Of course, next season we may be flooded with large numbers of applications and the growers may not be able to comply with the regulations in the Schedule in the time available to them. If we run into conditions that are too dry, as we can do in the apple country from January up to April, when we get the bulldozers in the trees are likely to break off at ground level. Anyone attempting to do something with a 20-acre block can expect regrowth if the roots of the trees are not removed. If it is too wet and we try to do anything from July to November to get the trees out by October and qualify for assistance, the soil in the orchards will pug up and it will be doubtful whether we can get heavy machinery on to the orchard hills to get the trees out. Because of the depressed state of the industry in the orcharding country the heavy machinery contractors have moved out, and it would be a difficult job to mobilise machinery operators to come in and take the trees out. Of course, as the Minister will appreciate, applications will not come in en bloc. It will be difficult to mobilise the contractors to get the fruit trees out by October next year. Surely October 1974 would be a more realistic date. 
As I say, this problem is peculiar only to Tasmania. The Tasmanian Government for this season has guaranteed the growers $2.60 a bushel f.o.b. and has encouraged people to have a go, but it is difficult after years of frustration and decline in the industry to know whether we will get enough return for them next year to persevere. They are great optimists. I say to the Minister: Whatever you can do for the industry, do it now. Back it up because if things come right in an industry like this it is useless to say to growers: 'Start growing again'. This is because there is a time lag between when they plant and when they can expect to harvest. I hope that the Minister might see his way clear to grant some extension of time in Tasmania. It is not a political issue. He will not be giving us any political advantage by giving Tasmania an extension of 12 months. There is not anything in it. We are asking out of consideration for the growers and the trained staff we have to work on the applications. There is no political advantage to be gained from it for us. We ask for it in all good faith. We rely on the Minister to accept this point of view. We ask him to reconsider granting an extension of time. As I said when I commenced, the honourable member for Franklin and I ask the Minister please to give us some information in the very near, future. We are inundated with inquiries and we would like some further details on the means test, particularly as it relates to partial tree pull. People are anxiously wanting to know the qualifications that will apply to the means test. It is important that we get this information out to the orchardists, who after all are dependent on this industry for a living. It is important from the point of view of their economic viability and position in the industry that they know where they stand and whether they can go ahead with partial tree pull. 
I want to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a couple of questions to clear up an issue. The support price for the season under review - 1972 - across the board for the various types of fruit has been raised by 11c on average. Can the Minister explain to me how this is arrived at in view of the fact that, under the legislation, the Government provides a sum of $400,000, which will lift the pay-out price of 5.2S million bushels of apples from 47c a bushel this season to 67c? If we did not receive the $400,000 for this season we would have received a pay-out figure or a support price of 67c a bushel. Under the legislation we are now debating we go from 67c a bushel to 74c - an increase of 7c. The support price or the pay-out price across the board for practically all varieties of fruit has, I understand, been increased by lie. 1 ask the question because of the concern of the Opposition in the last debate and in this debate as to what provision is being made for an escalation of costs between the setting of the figure, as was done on 1st October 1970 - almost 12 months before the season ended - and the end of the season. As an example I refer to the fact that the last national wage increase raised our picking costs by 4c a bushel and cool storage charges by lc a bushel. What is the relationship between the 11c for the support prices and the figure of 7c that we will receive from the application of the $400,000 in the stabilisation plan for this season? 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
In directing my question to the Prime Minister I refer to the rapidly worsening situation on King Island which has not had a regular shipping service for the past 8 months. I ask: When can we expect a decision from the Government on the implementation of Labor's election policy to cause the Australian National Line to accept full responsibility for the King Island shipping services? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade and refers to the recent announcement by A. Wander Ltd of its intention to cut the production of Ovaltine at its plant near Devonport, Tasmania, by more than 40 per cent and consequently to retrench employees. 1 ask: Is the Minister aware that this company has claimed that because of currency changes its product is now costing 17 per cent more in Thailand, which takes 90 per cent of the factory's production? Has any approach been made to his Department by this company for compensation for or assistance in respect to the hardship caused by the Joss of the export market in Thailand? If not, will the Minister outline the steps to be taken by the company if it desires to seek assistance and thereby provide for a continuation of employment for the employees concerned? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and relates to valuations of and rentals on war service land settlement properties. When may we expect legislation in this House to implement Labor policy on war service land settlement with respect to valuations fixed to correspond with State valuations, 'ess an amount for improvements and structures, with rentals based at  2i  per cent of this figure? I might add that this is also the policy of the State Labor Government in Tasmania. If this legislation cannot be introduced this session, will the Minister make every endeavour to have it brought in during the Budget session so as to remove the injustices perpetrated for so many years by the previous Government on soldier settlers in the various settlements? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. He will be aware that some doctors in Tasmania have advised pensioners with a pensioner medical service entitlement that they will not treat them under the present system as from the end of next month and that some doctors have advised their pensioner patients to join a medical benefits fund at 50c a week. I ask: Can those pensioners who are dependent solely on the pension be enrolled in the subsidised medical scheme because they cannot afford the 50c a week fee? If that is not possible, will the Minister consider some alternative method that will enable pensioners to continue to be entitled to the free hospital and medical treatment which they have received up to date under the pensioner medical service? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour I ask: When will the rural unemployment relief scheme end? What plans has the Government to assist in specified rural pockets of unemployment, such as the north-west coast of Tasmania where the number of registered unemployed is 690 and where there are 9 applicants for each unfilled vacancy? Is the Minister aware that this position will deteriorate rapidly when the relief scheme ends and the 528 persons at present employed under the rural section of the scheme in Tasmania join the ranks of the registered unemployed to which I have referred? Will the Minister treat this request for the implementation' of a special alternative plan to correct the position as a matter of urgency? 
I want to refer to the dairying industry on King Island and to request the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wreidt)  to send some of his departmental officers to the island to study the position at first hand. I realise that departmental officers were in Hobart recently for discussions with the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture and with industry representatives. But King Island is in a special problem area. I appeal to the Minister for an on the spot investigation of the problems. Some Department of Primary Industry officers have been to the island but I ask for an in depth study of the whole problem affecting dairy farmers in this area. In this regard I refer to statements made by the Tasmanian Farmers Federation on behalf of the island. This island is situated in the western entrance to Bass Strait about half way between Tasmania and Victoria and supports a population of about 3,000 people. 
The Tasmanian Farmers Federation points out that following the Federal Government's decision to phase out the dairy bounty over the next 3 years the Minister for Primary Industry has suggested that special assistance may be given to dairy farmers to make their units a more productive and profitable enterprise. Furthermore he indicated that funds would be made available to make the dairy industry a more viable national industry. For individual dairy farmers he said that money would be made available to convert cream producers to whole milk production. While the Government has not given precise details of its intentions in this direction it is assumed that funds will be available for farmers to install refrigerated milk vats and other necessary specialised equipment required for whole milk production. 
The Federation also pointed out that the Minister said that additional funds would be made available for the marginal dairy farmer reconstruction scheme. Presumably these funds would be designed to assist dairy farmers into some other form of production such as beef or wool or to assist dairy farmers to leave the industry entirely. The Minister has also said that the Australian Dairy Board would be restructured to make it a more effective marketing organisation. This apparently is being done on the assumption that if more profitable long-term markets can be established for Australian dairy products these will have a stabilising effect on the entire national industry. 
The TFF points out that while these measures announced by the Minister may have some effect in improving the economic stability and efficiency of the Australian dairying industry, there are pockets of dairying in Australia that will not be effectively assisted by the measures already announced, and one of these areas is King Island. King Island is ideal for dairying because of its climatic conditions. It can produce up to 250 lb of butterfat to the acre and this, as others interested in primary production will agree, is a higher yield per acre than some of the traditional dairying districts in Australia. At the peak o. the war service land settlement on the Island there were about 200 dairy farmers there. Now this number has been reduced to 75. Under the conditions of war service land settlement these dairy farmers were restricted to approximately 220 acres. If these dairy farmers have to diversify into beef production or some other form of primary industry I cannot see how they will be able to do it because of the limitation of the area of their properties. The 75 dairy farmers oh the Island send their cream to a co-operative butter factory which produces about 750 tons a year. The Minister could best assist by providing finance to bring this factory up to export standards to ensure an outlet for the products it is producing. 
The TFF emphasises that the co-operative cannot convert into some form of whole milk production because this would be far beyond the financial resources of the co-operative. There may be other solutions to this problem but I do not think that it can be solved either in Canberra or in Hobart. I repeat my request to the Minister for an on the spot investigation and I ask that departmental officers visit the Island. It has become one of the problem areas with the phasing out of the dairy subsidy. I do not want just a visit by some officers who speak only to somebody in charge of the co-operative. What  II  seek, as I said before, is an in depth study into the whole matter. This study is important now because an application has been made for Commonwealth financial assistance for the establishment of a cheese factory. Some people on the Island favour this proposal and others do not. There is a divergence of opinion as to whether they should continue to support the present butter factory or change over to whole milk production and the operation of a cheese factory. 
I think it is time the Minister or the departmental officers and all the technical staff available to him from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and so on, were able to conduct a study in this area. It is a problem area deserving of attention. The people on the Island are both the old traditional settlers and those who have settled since World War II. They are taxpayers of this Commonwealth and they are entitled to a fair go. On the mainland of Tasmania it is not economic for some dairy fanners to continue to produce cream for butter at the 36c a lb being paid for butterfat as against the 49c a lb being paid for fat in whole milk. But some of these farmers who want to change to whole milk production will have to receive Government assistance and I have asked the Minister for this. 
I refer again to the submission toy the Tasmanian Farmers Federation which indicates that the Minister has stated that it is his intention to investigate this matter and that some money will be made available to help to convert cream producers to whole milk production. I have suggested to the Minister on behalf of a group of farmers at Circular Head in the far north-west of Tasmania that he should make availabe to them a grant of $3,000 to $4,000, depending on circumstances, to enable the farmers to install the necessary vat, the cooler and the access roads required for the tanker to call. These requests are under consideration. If the farmers have to diversify because of the Government's actions, Government financial assistance must be made available. I hope that an announcement on this matter will soon be made. The Jersey Cattle Club in Tasmania has also submitted some worthwhile suggestions to assist the industry and those affected by the phasing out of the dairy subsidy. I hope that the Minister is giving consideration, through his Department, to the proposals put up by the Jersey Cattle Club and that some announcement will be made on those proposals. 
I turn again to King Island. In the few minutes available to me I want to advise the House that a bright spot for the islanders is the fact that thanks to the efforts of the Tasmanian Transport Commission the vessel Straitsman' has re-entered the trade and King Island now has a weekly shipping service with Melbourne and Tasmania. The Federal Government has assisted to the extent of making additional loan funds available to the Tasmanian Government so that the Transport Commission could buy the 'Straitsman'. During the months that the 'Straitsman' was tied up the Tasmanian Transport Commission did a most commendable job in lifting stock from King Island to Victoria with the 'Joseph Banks'. I pay the highest possible tribute to the people in the Tasmanian Transport Commission such as Captain Maddox and others who saw that this service was carried through. However, the improvised service is not to be compared with the regular weekly services that the 'Straitsman' now gives. 
I should like to give just one example of the value of the service. One of the most sought after trophies for livestock in the various States is the Buchanan trophy for Angus cattle. This is competed for on a points basis at various agricultural shows and thanks to the 'Straitsman' one of the leading cattle producers on King Island,  Mr Peter  Snodgrass, was able to take his cattle to the Burnie Show last weekend. He has tried for 3 years to get his cattle to the Burnie Show, but as  Mr Snodgrass  said, now it is so easy. It is only 6 hours steaming time from King Island to Stanley. It is wonderful to know that the shipping between King Island and the mainland of Tasmania and Victoria has been restored on a regular weekly basis. The islanders have a wonderful service to transport their stock between the island and the markets in Melbourne. The normal shipping service to the mainland of Tasmania has also been restored. This service of course now provides a flow of stock from the Island. As I have said in this House before, King Island is one of the best stock producing areas in the whole of Australia. The grass seems to grow all year round. It has a wonderful climate. This is evidenced by the win of  Mr Peter  Snodgrass last weekend. That shows that the stock was the best in Australia. He has won the Buchanan trophy on 3 occasions and this indicates the high standard of the stock that comes from the island. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. It relates to the vessel 'Blythe Star' under charter to the Tasmanian Transport Commission. Is the Minister aware that 'Blythe Star' left Hobart for King Island on Friday and that the vessel has been out of radio contact since then? If Blythe Star' is travelling by way of the west coast of Tasmania it should have reached King Island on Sunday; if via the east coast it should have arrived on Monday. The master could be delaying, knowing that the 'Straitsman' would be using the King Island berth today. However, in view of the concern now being felt, I ask the Minister whether the Government will take all possible steps to locate the vessel, particularly in view of the long period of absence of radio communication. 
The Minister for Transport will recall my question on Tuesday of this week regarding the vessel 'Blythe Star' now overdue at King Island. I ask the Minister: What initiatives have been taken to step up the search for the vessel 'Blythe Star'? In asking this question, I thank the Minister for the information that he has kept up to us since last Monday. In view of the information that the Minister has just passed on that there is an oily substance reported on the sea and on the beach between Sandy Cape and the Pieman River and because of the undoubted greater efficiency of helicopters as opposed to the conventional Royal Australian Air Force aircraft now operating in the area for search purposes, will the Minister authorise the immediate chartering of helicopters based at Wynyard Airport in Tasmania for an immediate search in case there are survivors along this isolated coast? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Transport refers to the vessel 'Blythe Star'. Is the Minister aware that some of the survivors have indicated that Japanese fishing trawlers fishing inside territorial waters ignored their rescue flares and fled when the survivors fired off their last rockets? Is the Minister in a position to report to the House on this matter? Will he have an immediate inquiry made because, if the allegation is correct, such behaviour is beyond all the rules of the sea, apart from the humanitarian considerations? 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that the tourist transport organisation Centralian closed down suddenly earlier this year after the company H. C. Sleigh Ltd withdrew its financial support, leaving some $30,000 to $40,000 owing to hotels, motels and sub-contract coach operators in Tasmania? What was the nature of the trading relationship between Trans-Australia Airlines, Centralian and H. C. Sleigh following enabling legislation that was passed by this Parliament last year in order to permit TAA to enter this field? Is it a fact that TAA paid all the accounts owing for a period of 2 weeks following the collapse of Centralian? What did this amount to? Why did TAA feel that this was its obligation and, if it is an obligation, will consideration be given to meeting the outstanding amounts owing in Tasmania? Finally, will the Government give consideration to introducing some type of bonding arrangement, in view of the fact that this is the third time in the last 7 years that Tasmanian business people in the tourist industry have been caught by these operators? 
I ask the Minister for Transport: What steps have been taken by the Government to ensure adequate shipping for the island State of Tasmania and thereby permit industrial concerns to return to full production and thus remove the fear of further retrenchments? Will the Minister use every endeavour to obtain total exemption for Tasmania if this strike continues, and for any future strike, in view of the. crippling effect the current strike is. having on the State's economy and the employment opportunities for its people? 
-The purpose of the Bill before the House, the States Grants Bill 1974, is to authorise the payment of an additional financial assistance grant to Tasmania. This seems to have been completely overlooked by the Opposition. The Bill provides for the payment of $ 15m in addition to the financial assistance grants otherwise payable to the State in 1974- 75 and for the incorporation of this amount into the base for the purpose of calculating the grants payable to the State under the formula in 1975- 76 and in subsequent years. The decision to provide an additional financial assistance grant to Tasmania followed a request made by the Premier of Tasmania at the Premiers Conference in June this year for discussions with the Australian Government to consider the possibility of his State withdrawing from the special grants system. 
Before I proceed on this question of the special grant, I should like to answer some of the remarks that have been made in the course of this debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  produced a Press cutting from the 'Examiner' newspaper which is produced in northern Tasmania. He was quite right in saying that the newspaper said that I had made a comment at a meeting last Friday week in Ulverstone with the municipal leaders of the north-west coast and that I had said that the case for the regional north-west water scheme was not properly documented. But nothing is further from the truth. 
I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Franklin. It suits the Leader of the Opposition's case if he or one of his staff plucks an article out of a newspaper and says that this is what the honourable member for Braddon thinks and this is what he says. I did not say what is reported in that article. If honourable members compare the report in the 'Examiner' newspaper with the report of the same meeting in another newspaper, the 'Advocate', they will find that they are altogether different. I draw the attention of the Leader of the Opposition to the report of the same meeting in the 'Advocate' newspaper. He will find that I praised the submissions of the North West Municipal League in its case for Government support. If the right honourable gentleman looks at the article he will see that I said that the Government has firm commitments. I did not pick up the article in the 'Examiner' newspaper that simply suits the case of the Leader of the Opposition. One cannot reply to all the inaccuracies that appear in every newspaper. 
I just want to quote a similar one which appeared in this northern newspaper and to which attention was drawn. This northern newspaper last week reported a statement by the  Chairman  of the North West Municipal League, which is dealing with this regional water question about which the Leader of the Opposition was so vocal. The  Chairman  of the North West Municipal League, of course, knows that no money can be granted this year. Even if the money were available we could not even put a pick in the ground. I will explain why in a few minutes. He said that Councillor Ray Duff was disappointed. This appeared in the same northern newspaper. Councillor Ray Duff never said anything of the sort. He was very upset about the report. He contacted me and apologised. He said that he hoped I was not upset about it. I said: 'No, this is a northern newspaper and you can't believe it'. 
But how can one reply to everything? Last Friday, when my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and I were in Devonport, the chief reporter of the newspaper in the area came up of his own volition and apologised for the reports. He said: 'Look, I don't know where they came from. Ray Duff got on to me and blew hell out of me. But I don't know where they came from'. I said: 'You should not report things that are not true'. It suited the Leader of the Opposition to pluck this one out of the air. If he looked into the newspaper he would find that it is full of inaccuracies. As I said, we picked this one up and corrected it. As I said, it was corrected by the leading reporter in the area. 
We were criticised this afternoon by the Opposition for a lack of plans for regional development. I ask the House: What did the Opposition do when it was in government and had the opportunity to assist? It knew that the plan and report for this regional water scheme had already been presented but did nothing at all about it; it was left until this Government came in. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  went to the north west coast and found that the scheme suited his idea of regional development and was an excellent plan. It covers 8 municipal councils and will provide a supply of clean water for about 100,000 people until the year 2000. The 8 municipalities served by the project, which draws on the Emu and Forth Rivers think that this is a wonderful scheme. The Minister said that the plan is excellent and is in line with the thinking of this Government. But what a pity nothing at all was done by the previous Government. The Minister immediately sent some experts from Canberra to the north west coast and they conducted a feasibility study. They also found that it was an excellent scheme. What is more, the Minister went to the area on his own volition and spent 2 days doing an aerial inspection and also a ground inspection of the water scheme. He got in touch with the Tasmanian Government and on a government to government level put up a plan for financial assistance for this scheme. 
The commitment is in the Budget. I will answer the interjection now. Nothing can be done yet because this is a new proposal. Only 2 water schemes in Australia have been assisted by this Government- there will be many, many more- the one in South Australia and the one on the north-west coast of Tasmania. Some sort of financial formula has to be agreed to between the States and the Commonwealth. Therefore the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is contacting his counterpart in Tasmania, the Honourable Michael Barnard, to arrange the financial agreements. Once that is done- I see my colleague nodding- the next step is that because of the magnitude of the scheme, which is to cost more than $10m, it has to be referred to the Public Works Committee of the Tasmanian Parliament. Departmental officers tell us this will take four to six months, so there will be a further delay. Even if the Tasmanian Public Works Committee reports favourably- we feel sure it will- the next step is that final design plans and specifications have to be drawn up, and the whole costing of the project has to be agreed on between the State and the Commonwealth, and in turn between the Tasmanian Government and each of the 8 municipal councils that form the region. So even if we had money in the Budget for this scheme we would not be able to put a pick in the ground this year. But we are hoping that these stages I have outlined may be brought forward sufficiently to enable us to put some money into the Supply Bills in the autumn to get a start on it. 
This afternoon the Opposition criticised Australian National Line shipping. During the term of office of the previous Government ANL freight rates rose by 30 per cent and the previous Government did nothing about it. It did nothing at all to try to help Tasmania with freight subsidies. In fact, it blatantly refused to do anything to give us any subsidy to offset rises totalling 30 per cent in its time in government. Certainly  Mr Whitlam  made a policy commitment in 1 972 and in 1974, and that has been honoured, irrespective of what the Opposition says about his promise being broken. That is plain utter rubbish. Last year, soon after we were elected, a $lm subsidy was given to the 'Empress of Australia' for the passenger service. That subsidy is provided for again in the Budget this year. Sudsidies have been provided for 2 years. It is admitted that a few weeks ago the ANL applied to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for an increase in freight rates. It has been trying since 1972 to have freight rates increased because it has to run as a businesslike enterprise. It saw that it would lose $3m on the Melbourne to Tasmania run this year and $lm on the Sydney to Hobart run- a total of $4m. Because of increased costs it asked for an increase in freight rates of 25 per cent. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  acted very promptly and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  when he came to the north west coast, which is mainly concerned with all this, said that a $2m subsidy would be provided to offset this increase. I repeat again that when the Opposition was in government freight rates rose by about 30 per cent arid it absolutely refused to give Tasmania a penny. Now, when freight rates have been increased by 25 per cent, a subsidy of $2m has been provided. It is based on a formula- a subsidy where a subsidy is required. I hear someone say 'a miserable subsidy'. It is not a miserable subsidy; it is one that is absolutely necessary. The formula is not just plucked out of the air. Criticism has been made because it is to apply only to north-bound freight. The subsidy is worked out on a formula which is to be used until we can get the findings of the Nimmo Committee. There have been 6 reports on Tasmanian shipping since 1972. We hope to God this is the last one. This is the seventh. But one cannot force a royal commissioner to speed up the work and give us an interim report. He is over in Canada now looking at the differential in freight rates to the off-shore islands which are part of the sovereign territory of Canada. Their freight rates are equalised with comparable freight rates within Canada. We cannot speed up the report or tell the royal commissioner to hurry it up. So we have to use the formula worked out from the Bureau of Transport Economics study presented in March 1 973. The summary of that report states: 
Comparisons with hypothetical road and rail links between Tasmania and Melbourne suggest a notional transport Cost disadvantage ranging between SI and $5 per ton for most classes of goods. 
I point out that this is between Tasmania and Melbourne, north-bound freight. The summary continues further. 
Tasmania suffers no disadvantage in the shipment of bulk cargo. 
The Opposition is squealing now and saying that we have not given the subsidy to everyone; we have applied it only to general cargo. This transport study found that actually the freight variation was between $1.10 and $5.20 a ton. On an average it was $2. The ANL has told us that north-bound freight is about 1 million tons a year, so a $2m subsidy works out to be $2 a ton. This is based on the figures of 1972, when we came into Government. The average freight rate for a 40 cubic feet ton north-bound was not quite $8. So 25 per cent of that is $2. So this subsidy of $2m is the equivalent of wiping out that freight increase and taking the rates back to the 1972 figures. 
But members of the Opposition should realise when they criticise that the Prime Minister said that the rates would be compared with road, rail and sea freights between comparable distances on the mainland. We have more than eradicated the 25 per cent increase. In the same time the average road, rail and sea freights for the mainland have risen by more than 35 per cent- more than the 25 per cent increase that the ANL put on to the Tasmanian run. So I maintain that this Government has more than honoured the Prime Minister's promises of 1972 and 1974. The subsidies now are $2m for freight and $ 1 m for passenger services. 
I turn now to the question raised of adequate shipping for Tasmania. I have dealt with the freight rates and shall now deal with the shipping services. Good heavens, what did the Opposition do when it was in government? It let the services run down. One cannot pluck ships out of the air. One cannot just walk into a shop and buy a ship as one can buy a suit. One cannot buy ships off the hook. This Government in this Budget this year, all compliments to the Minister for Transport, has provided $54.7m this year for shipping services. The greatest amount ever allocated before was under $10m for the ANL. The figure this year for new ships and equipment to expand the Line is $54.7m which is more than 5 times the amount allocated in any other year. What does the ANL plan to do with this money? It has on order from State Dockyard a 6,700-ton vehicle deck container sea coaster which is due for delivery in approximately 12 months time. Because the vessel will not be delivered for about a year the Minister for Transport has approved the purchase of a 5,400-ton unit load vessel at present under construction in Norway. This vessel will be in service at the end of the year. The vessel which is to be built at the State Dockyard and which we expect to be delivered at the end of next year and the vessel being built in Norway which we expect to be delivered at the end of this year will be supplemented by a third vessel which is a second sea coaster being built at the State Dockyard. These vessels will provide Tasmanian exporters with a more economic service of greater capacity. This is what we want. Tasmania needs more ships, more space and more economic service. We could not get these things under the previous Government because it allowed the shipping service to Tasmania to run down. 
We heard criticism of the rural problems in Tasmania voiced a while ago. Only last week a New Zealand dairy marketing officer said that farmers in this country were punch drunk with gloom because of newspaper propaganda. What are the people on the Opposition side of the House doing? They are feeding on and fostering this propaganda. Members of the Opposition talked about the apple industry. But what did their government do when the overseas companies put up freights extortionately a few years ago? I know what happened because my people, as my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  knows, have been engaged in the apple industry in the Huon for 3 generations. The previous Government forced many people completely off the overseas market because it did nothing to try to contain freights on goods send to overseas markets. 
As the honourable member for Macquarie said, the previous Government started the tree-pull scheme. Honourable members opposite have asked why we cannot make Australia a food bowl for the rest of the world. Good heavens, what did they do about food? They started the tree-pull scheme which could denude Australia of apple trees. 
As my good friend from Franklin would know, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said that the Government had done nothing. But the right honourable member sits on the State Executive of the Liberal Party in Victoria, a State which has a Liberal Government. What has he done as a very responsible person in Victoria to get the Victorian Government to remove its stupid and harsh restrictions on the import of Tasmanian apples by Victoria? We cannot sell apples to Victoria. The right honourable gentleman talks about what he wants to do and what he is going to do to help the apple industry, but though he sits on the State Executive of the Victorian Liberal Party he has never raised a finger to try to help us. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  more or less tried to blame the Government for the depressed prices for beef. Good heavens, the price of beef is a reflection of world prices. For God's sake, let us come down and give some facts. The Leader of the Country Party tried to blame the Government for tins situation. This is the gloom I was talking about when I said that a New Zealand dairy marketing officer had said that farmers were punch drunk with propaganda. This is the sort of gloom that is put out and fostered by these people. Last year the price for export beef to the United States of America was 62c f.o.b. Devonport. This week the quote was 27.01c lb. That is the best that we could get. Of course we are in trouble. But this is the world price. Last year when prices were so high farmers purchased store stock at inflated prices. A lot of them were financed through the stock agents and so on. This year, pressure is being put on them by these people to sell their cattle at reduced prices in order to meet their financial commitments. Of course we are in trouble. But do not forget that the Government has supported a $ 1 50m floor price scheme which has been acclaimed by everyone in the wool industry. Also, do not forget the wheat deal with China that was initiated by the Government. One could go on. 
Liberal senators were praised. But these are the people who blocked the Australian Industry Development Commission Bill and who ruined the chances of the people in my electorate of getting a vegetable co-operative. My time has almost run out but I will have something more to say on this when I speak in the Budget debate. 
-Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development now in a position to advise the House of the detailed financial arrangements for the implementation of the northwest regional water scheme in Tasmania? What will be the benefits of the scheme? To clarify the position, will the Minister advise why no specific amount was included in this year's Budget for the scheme? 
-I welcome the opportunity to take part in the debate because it will enable me as a Tasmanian to answer some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Australian Labor Government for alleged neglect of the island State of Tasmania. I refer to arguments such as those appearing in the 'Advocate' newspaper in Tasmania on Tuesday, 1 October, in which they complained about the neglect of the island State. As I say, this debate has given me an opportunity to put the record straight. Australian Government financial assistance to the State of Tasmania will increase dramatically in 1974-75. In the financial year 1973-74 total Australian Government payments to the State and its Loan Council program, which was supported by the Australian Government, were $225.3m. The corresponding total for this financial year, 1974-75, cannot be estimated with precision at this stage but in round terms it is expected that over $3 10m will be available, an increase of approximately 38 per cent. Even after allowing for cost increases thus is a very substantial increase indeed. 
I would like to detail some of this expenditure and some of the revenue that is available to the Tasmanian people from the Australian Labor Government. In connection with general revenue grants I point out that these are up from $ 10 lm in the last financial year to an estimated $130m in this financial year, 1974-75, an increase of nearly 30 per cent. General purpose capital funds comprising capital grants and Loan Council borrowings are up from $64m in the last financial year to $76.4m this financial year. Tasmania will share in the wide variety of new and expanded programs of specific purpose assistance to the States, and I would like to give some special examples. New initiatives are provided in the field of health. An amount of $ 1.6m is provided for public hospitals in Tasmania, and we have never had anything at all before from any Australian Government. In Launceston the Australian Government will meet half the cost of the building and operation of the new general hospital. In Hobart, the capital city, the Australian Labor Government will wholly build and operate a new women's hospital. In the field of community health services we have never had any assistance at all before, and in this Budget a sum of $2m is provided. In the field of school dental health, of course, we must be particularly pleased because we got this year an allocation of $3m. I want to stress that Tasmania gets more than 10 per cent of the total allocation with only 3 per cent of the population. 
I am particularly pleased that in the Budget papers there is a special mention given to nursing homes. The Treasurer said: 
It is proposed to amend the National Health Act to authorise the Minister to enter into agreements with religious, charitable and other non-profit organisations conducting nursing homes, under which the Government will meet the deficits incurred in running the homes. It is planned to introduce this arrangement in January next. The cost in 1 974-73 is estimated at $ 1 .8m. 
I know that the nursing homes in Tasmania will be particularly pleased with this innovation of deficit funding. I think every member in this Parliament will be pleased, because we know how difficult it is in Tasmania to run these homes. The State Wages Board makes a determination in relation to pay for State nursing staff and after some months there is an application on behalf of staff in private nursing homes. It takes some while for this salary determination to flow on, so there is a heavy impost of salary arrears that has to be met by the nursing homes. This deficit funding, where the Commonwealth will enter into an agreement with the nursing homes to assist them with the losses that they incur through no fault of their own- and after doing the wonderful work that they do- will certainly be a great innovation in that particular field. 
Under general roads legislation, Tasmania will receive $31m, which is an increase of more than 40 per cent over the allocation of the previous 2 years. Over the next 3 years, including this year, Tasmania will receive an allocation of $53m and $2.7m for urban transport assistance programs. Of course in the field of housing the attitude of this Government to Tasmania is really spectacular. In the last year the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, Tasmania received an allocation of $300,000. Last year under a Labor Government this allocation increased to $16m and this financial year that amount will be increased to $20m. In the field of social security we have done a great deal to keep contact with the people who need assistance and advice. I point out to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is the Opposition spokesman sitting at the table, that no new buildings were constructed in Tasmania by his Government during the last 7 years of its office. Under the Labor Government new offices have been opened up at Devonport, New Norfolk, Queenstown, Bellerive and Glenorchy, and new offices are being considered for Georgetown, Huonville and Ulverstone. 
The Australian Assistance Plan initiated by this Government is of course a magnificent concept. It will bring the people, the community, into the planning stages for welfare programs. In Hobart last year the southern regional councils were allocated $5,000 and the same amount has been allocated this year. In Launceston the allocation to councils has been doubled from approximately $2,500 last year to $5,000 this year. Councils in the region I am particularly interested in, the Mersey-Lyell area, received $5,000 last year and will receive $6,000 this year to assist with planning and administration expenses. Tasmania is to receive $6.3m this year for urban and regional development works and this includes $2.7m for sewerage and $2m for the lands commission. There is also a commitment in the Budget for a north-west regional water scheme. I will deal with that matter later. There is also an amount of $ 1.3m in the Budget for the completion of the Hobart airport which is planned for 1975-76. 
It is in the field of education that this Government has made spectacular progress and has done a tremendous amount of good work. Tasmania alone will receive $20m this year for universities. I point out to the House that this amount is more than 3 times that allocated in the previous 2 years. Tasmania will receive $ 14m for colleges of advanced education and that amount is about 4 times the allocation of the previous 2 years. For technical education it will receive $2m, which is almost 3 times the allocation of the previous 2 years. Tasmania government and non-government schools will receive $16m, which is about 4 times the allocation of the previous 2 years. Anyone who says Tasmania is neglected is miles away from the truth. The school dental scheme that I referred to earlier was initiated under a Labor government in financial year 1973-74 and in that year an amount of $ 1 .4m was allocated by way of grants. This year the estimated grant will be $1.7m, an increase of $0.3m. 
On Tuesday night the Government was criticised in the House for its policy towards the Tasmanian apple industry. I point out that it was the previous Government that started the tree pull scheme and refused to give growers any subsidy assistance in the export of fruit. But under the Labor Government an amount of $2m has been allocated in the 1974-75 Budget on a dollar for dollar basis in order to assist the apple export industry. The Budget also includes $2.7m for assistance for sewerage schemes in Tasmania. I am very pleased indeed that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has now made it possible for towns of more than 20,000 people to be included in the scheme. This will mean that the new sewerage scheme will now encompass the towns of Devonport and Burnie. In this financial year $2.7m is provided for urban public transport in Tasmania. An amount of $1.4m is provided by the Government for the King Island shipping service to enable the Tasmanian Government to buy the 'Ra', which is the replacement vessel for the 'Straitsman' which unfortunately sank in the Yarra River last year. 
Local councils are particularly pleased with the allocation from the Grants Commission. Tasmania received $1.7m for municipal authorities last year. This is the amount that was recommended by the Grants Commission. Of this, $500,000 went to councils in the Braddon electorate. When this was mooted I can remember some Liberals saying: 'This is pie in the sky. This will never eventuate'. They got an awful shock when some councils received up to $100,000 with no strings attached. You ought to see these Liberals scurrying around and opening their mouths now, when they are visited by the commissioner from the Grants Commission, to make sure that they get a bigger slice of the cake. They were full of criticism when it was first mooted, but they certainly do not mind taking the money. 
Tasmania receives much more Australian Government assistance per capita than do any of the other States. For example, last year funds for Tasmania totalled $565 per head of population compared with $335 on an average for all States. This additional assistance paid in recognition of the State's unique circumstances is continuing to increase under the Labor Government. Tasmania's per capita allocation is 70 per cent higher than the average for the rest of Australia. The generous treatment of the State of Tasmania by the Australian Labor Government has replaced the undignified haggling and meanness to which Tasmania was subjected by past Liberal Party governments in Canberra. Tasmania has about 3 per cent of the population of Australia but will receive almost 5 per cent of the total assistance grants from the Australian Government this financial year. 
I wish to turn to shipping, because shipping is of great importance to Tasmania. Unlike the other States, Tasmania does not have road and rail links with other parts of Australia, and shipping is its lifeline. The Federal Government will spend $54.7m on new ships and equipment this year to expand the Australian National Line. Over the past years the ANL never had a Budget figure of more than $ 10m. This year this Government will be allocating more than 5 times as much as was allocated in any previous year. Money will be spent on starting new ships, which will be worth more than $200m. Most of the money will be used to build, charter and operate enough ships to carry a fair share of Australia's exports and imports. A cellular container ship of 29,000 tonnes is being built for the AustraliaEurope trade and a ship has been built for the Australia-Japan trade. Contracts have been let for building 4 modern bulk carriers, all more than 100,000 tonnes, for use in the AustraliaJapan ore trade. Delivery dates for these vessels are June, July, and December 1976 and May 1977. Two of the carriers will be of 120,000 tonnes and two will be of 140,000 tonnes. For the first time the Australian flag will fly regularly in the bulk trades. Coastal trade has not been neglected. Six ships have been bought or are being built for it. A new Melbourne terminal is also being built and this will help remove the cargo congestion and improve turnround. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government allowed the shipping service on the Tasmanian run to run down. 
I am pleased to see that adequate recognition is given in this Budget to the need to upgrade the shipping services to Tasmania. The Australian National Line has on order from the State Dockyard a 6,700-ton vehicle deck container Sea Coaster due for delivery in approximately 12 months. Delivery of this vessel was expected early next year, but because it is now 12 months away the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has approved the purchase of a 5,400-ton unit load vessel at present under construction in 
Norway. These two vessels, together with the order of a second Sea Coaster from the State Dockyard, will provide Tasmanian exporters with a more economic service of greater capacity. I appeal to the Minister, however, to keep the 'Bass Trader' and the 'Echuca' in service on the Bass Strait run until such time as these new vessels are on the Tasmanian run. 
I turn now to the question of freights. These, coupled with the availability of adequate shipping, are of tremendous importance to Tasmania. I maintain that the Government has honoured its 1972 and 1974 election promises. 
-You did nothing at all. The Government has removed the disadvantage facing Tasmania by reason of the fact that it has only a sea link to the mainland. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who was the prevous Minister for Shipping and Transport knows quite well, because he was responsible for authorising the increases in ANL freights, that under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government ANL freight rose by about 30 per cent but that Government did nothing at all about giving a subsidy to Tasmania to compensate for that disability. For the first time, from 1972 to 1974 since this Government came to office, when the ANL sought an increase of 25 per cent because it expected losses on the MelbourneTasmania run of $3m and on the SydneyTasmania run of $lm, this was brought to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and Tasmania received a subsidy of $2m, which will equate to approximately $2 a ton on the basis of 1 million tons of northbound general freight from Tasmania to the mainland. 
One has to bear in mind that at the same time that the ANL asked for the 25 per cent increase, road, rail and sea freights on the mainland rose by an average of 35 per cent. So I maintain that the Government's promise has been honoured. In addition, since it came into office this Government has given a subsidy of $ lm to the passenger service on the 'Empress of Australia'. That was provided for in the 1 973-74 Budget and it is provided for in the 1974-75 Budget. So the subsidy now applicable to the Tasmanian passenger and freight runs is worth $3m a year. I simply repeat that, despite all the increases that the previous Government authorised, it refused absolutely to give Tasmania a subsidy to offset this disadvantage. Tasmanians are looking forward to the Nimmo report with a great deal of eagerness because we hope that this will be the blueprint for the future for our shipping service. 
I am delighted that there is a commitment in the Budget for the north-west regional water scheme. As the Minister for Urban and Regional Development said earlier this week, a commitment has been made to the extent of about $ 10.5m which will be spread over some 6 years. He said: 
The commitment agreed upon in principle was that 40 per cent of the scheme would be paid for by the Tasmanian Government and 60 per cent by the Australian Government. Of the Australian Government's commitment of 60 per cent, 30 per cent will be in interest free non-repayable loans and the remainder will be lent at the long term Commonwealth bond rate which is the same as the provision for the national sewerage program. 
The Minister also went on to say why there were no actual funds provided in this Budget but if agreement were reached this year between the State and Commonwealth governments an amount of money could be provided in the Autumn to make sure that that work will commence. I strongly support the Budget. I strongly support the wonderful work that has been done in Tasmania. I utterly reject the rubbish one sees in the newspapers - 
-Once again we heard from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  unjustified critcism of what this Government is doing for the island State of Tasmania in respect to shipping. I remind him again, and will continue to go on reminding him, that during the Opposition's term in government and when he was the Minister for Shipping and Transport, the then Government increased Australian National Line freight rates to Tasmania by some 30 per cent. Despite all the efforts by Tasmanian people from both sides of the political fence the previous Government did nothing at all by way of subsidy to offset Tasmania's disadvantages. 
This Government came to power some 2 years ago. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  during the 1972 and 1974 election campaigns, promised that he would look at the freight disadvantage being experienced by the island State of Tasmania. Shortly after taking office the Government introduced a subsidy of $lm for passenger services provided by the 'Empress of Australia'. That was provided in the Budget last year and the same sum is provided in the Budget this year. So a subsidy of $ lm towards passenger services is already in existence. Of course, when the ANL wanted to increase its freight rates, for the first time after this Government came to office, by 25 per cent the Prime Minister immediately called for a reassessment and announced a $2m freight subsidy. I just say this to the honourable member for Gippsland: Despite all he says about this 
Government at least it is doing more, especially having regard to the Nimmo royal commission, than the previous Government ever did. Certainly the previous Government did not give any material assistance to Tasmania. 
The purpose of the Australian Shipping Commission Bill, as outlined by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  is to amend certain provisions of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-73 in order to alter the name of the Commission, to increase the number of Commissioners from five to seven, to make specific provision for the appointment of a full time  chairman  of the Commission- a very worthwhile amendment because of the increasing importance of the Commission- to alter the basis on which the Commission is to be reimbursed for the losses in operation of the shipping services undertaken at the direction of the Minister for Transport, and to eliminate an anomaly in the present Act relating to the rights and benefits of the Commission's officers formerly employed in the Australian Public Service. At the same time the Minister pointed out that the opportunity will be taken to make several amendments of a machinery nature in relation to the financial provisions of the Act and to effect some largely formal amendments including those arising out of the Statute Law Revision Act 1973. 
The proposed amendments are intended to update the Act and to enable the Commission to move more effectively to perform its role as a national shipping line in both coastal and overseas trading. The Commission was established in 1956 and since then the ANL has made remarkable progress. The proposed amendments are necessary in keeping with the rapid growth of the ANL in order to allow it to continue its functions in an efficient, businesslike way. I need only point out that the fixed assets of the ANL have increased in the 16 years by almost 800 per cent and now total $183m. The combined dead weight tonnage carried is now 651,136 tons compared with 250,960 tons 16 years ago. The annual turnover has increased threefold from approximately $30m to more than $100m today. So the ANL has a record of spectacular growth. We certainly commend the Minister for attempting to update the Australian National Line and the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission so that each will fulfil its role in a more effective manner. 
I shall specifically refer to that part of the Bill which alters the basis on which the Commission is reimbursed for losses in the operation of a shipping service at the direction of the Minister for Transport. At present the Minister can direct the ANL to establish, to maintain and to operate a shipping service to meet the requirements of a particular area. But as the Minister has pointed out, the Act now provides that if such a shipping service suffers a financial loss and if an overall loss results from the Commission's whole operations for that year, the ANL is entitled to be reimbursed by the Australian Government to the extent of the lesser of the 2 losses. This means that the ANL is required to cross-subsidise such a service from any other profitable operations. 
At page 5 of the Bill which we are now considering, it is provided: 
Section 17 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (4) and substituting the following sub-section: '(4) Where- 
the Commission establishes, maintains and operates, or continues to maintain and operate, a shipping service in accordance with a direction given under subsection (1); and 
the Commission satisfies the Minister that the shipping service has, while being operated in accordance with the direction, operated at a loss in any financial year, the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed by Australia to the extent of the loss '. 
This means that the Minister for Transport can direct a subsidy to be paid if he thinks that it is in the public interest. The Australian Government then reimburses the ANL to the extent of the loss. This will mean the ANL will continue to operate as a competitive shipping line and its operations will not be penalised by government action in agreeing to a special subsidy. 
We are especially interested in this part of the Bill because, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, said in Devonport on 27 September, the $2m freight subsidy for Tasmania will apply as soon as these amendments have passed through the Parliament and have been given assent. The Government and the Minister for Transport have acted very quickly indeed in this matter to assist Tasmania. Again I point out to the honourable member for Gippsland, who has come back into the chamber, that despite what he said- I repeat it because I do not think he heard me- about this Government, when the Opposition was in office for 23 years and freight rates rose by 30 per cent it never raised a finger to assist Tasmania in any way at all. I just mention this to him because he always criticises this Government. I say again that the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister certainly acted very quickly. Since the Minister has been in office a subsidy of $lm for passenger services and a subsidy of $2m for freight services have been provided. 
I have to answer certain claims made in Tasmania and it is important that I point out the history of the situation. The ANL requested a 25 per cent rise in freight rates. Tasmanian members of Parliament for both the Senate and the House of Representatives had long discussions with the Minister for Transport and also with the Prime Minister during the first week after Parliament resumed for the Budget sessionthe parliamentary week ending 19 September. On that day the Prime Minister issued a Press statement saying that there would be an immediate reassessment of Tasmania's disadvantage. Within a week of his announcement on 19 September- this is the important thing- this reassessment was completed. Again I compliment the Minister for Transport for this. The formula that was put up at the discussion during the week before was costed and the amendment to give effect to this proposal was introduced into this House on 26 September. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-As I said before, this Government acted quickly and within a week of the Prime Minister's announcement on 19 September the assessment relating to the freight position was completed, the formula put up was costed and the amendment to the Bill was introduced on 26 September. (Quorum formed). An adjourmnent was sought by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  as is the established practice, to enable the Opposition to study the legislation at its next weekly party meeting. One week later, on Thursday, 3 October, the Bill was placed on the notice paper in this House but because of unexpected delays during the day we did not get to it on that date. Then, as every member in this House knows, there followed a week's recess and the Bill is now being debated at the earliest available opportunity. There has been no 'conning', as alleged by the Liberal Party spokesman on transport in Tasmania,  Mr Bonney.  He unjustly accused this Government- and I quote from an article in the 'Advocate' of 5 October, 1974- when he said: . . .  Dr Cairns  had evidently tried to 'con' Tasmanians with the Federal Government's promise to subsidise the ANL freight rate jump. 
According to the same article  Mr Bonney  said: 
The Government delayed introducing the required amendment to the ANL Act in the House of Representatives until yesterday. 
In saying 'yesterday', he means that it was introduced on 3 October. As I have pointed out, there was no 'conning' at all and this Government acted as quickly as possible to implement the Prime Minister's promise to Tasmania.  Mr 
Bonney, unfortunately for him, relied on an incorrect newspaper report from the 'Examiner' of Friday, 4 October. The report stated: 
A Bill to amend the ANL Act, under which the subsidy will operate, received its second reading in the House of Representatives yesterday, but did not reach the Senate. 
When the report says 'yesterday' it is referring to 3 October. In actual fact, as I pointed out, the second reading speech on this Bill was delivered on 26 September. Like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in this House,  Mr Bonney  has now found it unwise to rely on headlines from this northern newspaper. He would be well advised, as would the Leader of the Opposition in this House, to check the facts before making unjust and wrongful accusations based on the headlines of a newspaper. He should not pluck facts out of the air just to suit his own particular case. 
There has also been unfounded criticism of the Government because the $2m freight subsidy applies to northbound cargo only and does not cover bulk cargo and imports. In relation to bulk cargo, to get some idea of the position we have to refer to the latest economic report commissioned by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in his days as Minister for Shipping and Transport. This is the latest report available until the Government receives the report of the Nimmo Commission. On page 2 of this report of March 1 973, which is not very old, it says in relation to bulk cargoes: 
It became clear very early in the investigation that bulk shipping posed no more problems in Tasmania than anywhere else in Australia. Bulk shipping services between mainland ports were similar to the bulk services to Tasmanian ports, the costs were comparable and there was no expression of dissatisfaction about the way Tasmania was treated. 
In other words, Tasmania is not disadvantaged in the carrying of bulk cargoes. 
In relation to the other criticism of the Government on the matter of imports, I point out that imports are not disadvantaged because of the price equalisation scheme. To substantiate this I refer again to the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics of March 1973. Annex F to that report states: 
ANL, in their evidence to the Senate Committee of Inquiry, suggested that Tasmanians were not ' disadvantaged in their southbound cargoes' due principally to the presence of price equalisation schemes. 
The report goes on to show the difficulties of subsidising imports because of the existence of this price equalisation scheme. If this is dropped to our disadvantage in Tasmania, then it would be dropped, I point out, if a subsidy were. introduced. So there is a distinct case against putting a subsidy on imports because of the existence of the price equalisation scheme. The report goes on to show how this scheme operates throughout Tasmania and compares prices on the mainland with prices in the main centres in Tasmania. 
I maintain that the promises outlined by this Government in 1972 and 1974 have been honoured. I refer again to the first part of the speech I made this morning when I outlined how this Australian Government when it came to office instituted a $lm passenger subsidy for the 'Empress of Australia' and continued that subsidy for 1974-75 in this Budget. Despite the fact that there has been an average increase of 35 per cent in rail, road and sea freight between comparable places on the mainland, when for the first time in our term of office the Australian National Line wanted to lift freights by 25 per cent this Government, at the instigation of the Tasmanian members, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  carried out an immediate reassessment and came up with this proposition of a freight subsidy of $2m. This subsidy is based on the fact that our northbound freight amounts to about one million tons a year and, based on the 1972 freight rate of approximately $8 a ton for a 40 cubic foot ton, if you add the 25 per cent on to that you get the $2 increase. Calculating the one million northbound tons of freight, the $2m will wipe out the 25 per cent increase. 
I mention again that in its time in office the Opposition increased freights by about 30 per cent but at no time did the Liberal Party-Country Party Government do anything at all to assist Tasmanians with a freight subsidy in the way this Government is doing. This Government has also instituted the Nimmo Commission and we all look forward with a great deal of interest to the report of that Commission because we feel it could give us a blueprint for the future to remove any disadvantage that we suffer at this time due to the fact that the only avenue we have to send our goods to interstate markets is the sea leg. We do not have the road and rail avenues that are available to our trade competitors on the mainland of Australia. I repeat that this Government has clearly honoured any promises it made in 1972 and in 1974. It now relies on these amendments to the Bill going through this House and into the Senate and receiving royal assent because the Bill will enable the Minister for Transport to start distributing to our manufacturers in Tasmania the freight subsidies of about $175,000 a month, an average of about $2m a year. 
I commend the Bill. I also commend the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, for the very sympathetic way in which he received honourable senators and honourable members from Tasmania during the week long discussions that we had with him and with the Prime Minister. I commend the Minister for Transport for the speed with which he moved in order to implement the freight subsidy. I thoroughly reject any criticism that either he, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or anyone else attempted to con Tasmania into agreeing to a delay in the introduction of a freight subsidy until the report of the Nimmo Commission is received by the Government. I hope that the Bill will have a speedy passage through the Parliament. 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen the reported statement of the Executive Vice-President of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots,  Mr Bruce  Crofts, that the closure of either the Devonport airport or the Wynyard airport by the Australian Government is inevitable? Will the Minister given an assurance that these important airports will remain open and thus ease the public disquiet and controversy which  Mr Crofts'  prediction has aroused. 
-I would like to reply immediately to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  which provides that the Government should state in some detail the proposed increase in fees and charges covering a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry. As a former Minister of the Crown, the honourable member for Gippsland would know quite well that these charges are brought in by way of regulations, that these regulations he on the table of both Houses of the Parliament for 15 sitting days during which time they are scrutinised by members of both Houses of the Parliament and that a motion for their disallowance can be moved in either House. So there is absolutely no need for the amendment to have been moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
I wish to return now to the provisions of the Bill and to remind the House what it is all about because a lot of extraneous matter has been brought into the debate. I remind the House that we are debating the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1974. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates of air navigation charges, and to make other changes in the Act which the Government feels to be desirable. 
The Minister went on to say: 
In 1973-74 the cost of providing, operating and maintaining air navigation facilities and services throughout Australia amounted to S140m. Revenue received from the users of those facilities and services totalled $75m. Of this amount, $33m came from air navigation charges paid by aircraft operators, $ 11.5m from hangar and building rentals and terminal concession charges and the like, and $30.5m from aviation fuel taxes. This left a deficit between revenue and expenditure of $65m, a deficit which the Australian taxpayer was called upon to bear. 
As the Minister pointed out, put in another context the Australian taxpayer was asked to pay more than $6 for each passenger who travelled by air within, to or from Australia. 
It has been readily admitted today that the move was made in 1960 by the then LiberalCountry Party Government but that that Government set no target date for achieving its objective either in full or in part. Last year the Government decided to accelerate the cost recovery program. In the 1973 airlines agreement the Government undertook to consult with both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia on the level of departmental costs and on the program of works. This consultation was extended to include all segments of the industry- the charter operators, the flying training organisations and the other airlines. I point out that separate consultation took place with the union organisations representing employees within the air transport group. 
A report on this very searching review of departmental costs and industry consultation by what is called the industry committee has not yet been considered by the Government. I do not know how many times I have to point out to the honourable member for Gippsland, the Press in Tasmania and the Opposition's shadow minister for Tasmania that the report has not yet been considered by the Government. The Minister for Transport and his colleagues will, of course, take into account the views represented to him by the unions, by the local communities and by the industry. I know that he has certainly taken into account the views of Tasmania as expressed at the public meeting that was held in Devonport last Monday afternoon. I congratulate him and thank him very much for being so considerate in this matter. I again emphasise that no decisions have been taken yet. The Minister has assured me that at no time has he referred to the industry committee the question of the closure of either Wynyard or Devonport airports or of both. He has not referred that question to the industry committee. 
When I had discussions with him on Tuesday of last week the Minister was unaware of the public disquiet and of the controversy which had been aroused by a Press statement by a  Mr B.  Croft, the Executive Vice-President of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. That statement appeared in the newspapers. It was a very vicious and I think unwise statement. Apparently it was a pay back of certain Ministers of the Government. I wish to quote the statement that appeared in the newspapers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr Berinson)Order! Ring the bells. (The bells being rung)- 
-Before the interruption I was referring to a mischievous statement made by  Mr Bruce  Croft. The 'Advocate' on 8 November states: 
The closure of either the Devonport or Wynyard airport by the Australian Government was predicted as inevitable by the executive vice-president of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots  (Mr Bruce Croft)  yesterday.  Mr Croft  said he believed it was 'fairly obvious' that either the Devonport Airport, in the Latrobe Municipality, or the Wynyard Airport would be closed because of the Government's planned cutback of expenditure. 
I want to point out emphatically that the Minister did not know anything about these rumours to close airports. However, he made inquiries last week and he found that the industry committee was examining a submission made by the industry. I want to repeat emphatically that it was a submission made by the industry- not by the Government and not by the Minister for Transport- for the closure of both or either of the airports. Let me state here that the public of Tasmania will never tolerate any action to close either or both of these airports. This was clearly shown at a meeting at Devonport last Monday. Those airports rank eighth and ninth in importance in Australia outside the capital cities. Tas- . manians are air-minded people because apart from the 'Empress of Australia' we are denied the benefits of rail and road transport when travelling from Tasmania to any other State. I repeat that the Minister has not received a copy of the report. He has agreed that when he does receive it he will confer again with the Tasmanian senators and members of the House of Representatives in the event of there being any unfavourable recommendations affecting Tasmania. Again, I thank the Minister for the consideration that he has given to the members and senators from Tasmania. 
I turn now to the question of fire protection services and I want to quash the rumours relating to their withdrawal in Tasmania. Here, again, this proposal was put up by the industry to the industry committee and not by this Minister. No decision has been taken or will be taken until the report is received. The honourable member for Gippsland, who spoke earlier this afternoon, practised the Goebbels lie, as the Minister pointed out, because he went on in all the matters to which he referred to accuse the Minister of putting up the proposals when in fact the industry put up the proposals to the industry committee We certainly know that it was not our Minister who made such proposals. These suggestions were put up by the industry itself. 
Again, to quash this rumour, I want to refer briefly to the latest report of 'Australian Transport 1973-74'. Page 46 of that report in relation to fire stations states that current planning envisages the commissioning of new units at Karratha in Western Australia and Albury, New South Wales, next year. If honourable members examine the figures at the end of this official document they will find that at Karratha there were 52,621 passengers with 29,959 aircraft movements. Devonport had almost double this traffic with 95,431 passengers 2 years ago, and that figure increased last year to 105,447 passengers. Albury, where the Government intends to put in a new unit, had 71,201 passengers last year. That figure is not up to even three-quarters of the number of people who pass through 
Devonport, airport each year. The other northwest coast airport, Wynyard, is also well above both Karratha and Albury- both in passenger movement and in aircraft movement. This must silence the critics of this Government who persistently use the malicious rumour that fire protection services at Wynyard and Devenport are to be withdrawn. I point out again that these airports are eighth and ninth in importance outside the capital cities. 
If honourable members turn to the last page of the Minister's second reading speech they will notice that he sets out the standards that should be applied for the retention of airport services. The Minister stated that there were three such standards. First, that as a minimum, aerodromes should be served by F27 aircraft. The airports at Wynyard and Devonport are both serviced by F27 aircraft, so that requirement is met. The Minister points out also that at present, under existing criteria, there should be at least 25,000 passengers a year. I have pointed that last year at Devonport there were 4 times that number of passengers- 105,447 at Devonport and 88,074at Wynyard. The Minister points out also that there should be at least eight regular movements a day, which works out at 2,920 movements a year. Last year Devonport Airport had twice as many aircraft movements, the number totalling 5,390. We had almost twice as many also at Wynyard Airport with 5,086 aircraft movements. This clarifies the position and shows that at present both airports satisfy all the standards laid down. 
I turn now to the general aviation industry. This Government has been wrongly accused of causing financial hardship to the general aviation industry by again increasing air navigation charges. In the time that is available to me, following that stupid interruption by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  I hope that I will be able to answer the charges made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  I am tired of reading and hearing through the various forms of the media comments- this afternoon I have been listening to similar comments- by the general aviation section that the rises in air navigation charges are exorbitant and will financially cripple the general aviation operators. These comments are far from the truth. Let us examine the facts. Air navigation charges are among the minor elements in the total cost of operating an aircraft in the general aviation field. The major cost components are fuel and crew costs, each comprising about 20 per cent of the total cost; engineering costs comprise 34 per cent, and interest and depreciation costs comprise about 22 per cent. Air navigation charges, on an average, comprise about 2 per cent of the total operating cost of an aircraft. So we come to the fact that the proposed increases in air navigation charges relate to about one-third of 1 per cent of total operation costs. The general aviation industry should be looking at the escalation in overall operating costs that matter and not at some minor increase in the Government charge for air navigation facilities. To further emphasise the minor importance of air navigation charges in relation to total operating cost, I will outline the percentage of air navigation charges to the total cost for specific aircraft, and this incorporates the new charges for air navigation over 1,000 hours utilisation. Because of the time factor,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out this information. 
The table shows that for a Cessna 182 the percentage of air navigation charges to the total cost is 2.3 per cent; for a Beechcraft Baron the percentage of air navigation charges to the total cost is 1.72 per cent, and for a Piper Navajo the percentage of air navigation charges to the total cost is 1.9 per cent. If one talks about a marginal utilisation limit of around 400 hours the percentage of air navigation charges to the total operating cost is less than 6 per cent. Let us look at a larger aircraft, the Learjet an aircraft used for transporting commercial executives around Australia. The charter rate for such an aircraft is $450 an hour. Assuming a utilisation of 1,000 hours, the air navigation charges for this type of aircraft, amounting to $3,767, are only a minor part- 0.83 per cent- of the total revenue, not a very impressive component. Even for a 600 hour utilisation the percentage is only 1.4 per cent. Trans-Australia Airlines, on the other hand, paid $6.65m in 1973-74 in air navigation charges. 
This represents 4.5 per cent of its total operating revenue. I compare that percentage again with the 2.3 per cent for a Cessna 182, 1.72 per cent for a Beechcraft Baron and 1.9 per cent for a Piper Navajo. So let the members of the Opposition in this House and the spokesmen for the general aviation industry look at the facts in an objective manner. Let us hear no more about the crippling financial burden imposed by the Government through an increase in air navigation charges. The Government is determined that the general taxpayer should no longer be called upon to support inefficiency in the general aviation industry by subsidising air navigation charges. The user must pay his way. General aviation operators must pay for the use of government airway facilities. I have here a table setting out the costs associated with a club training aircraft- a Piper PA28- and I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. I indicate that I have shown it to the honourable member for Gippsland. 

<graphic href="092131197411212_55_11.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. If general aviation is becoming the victim of government policy this is not indicated by the statistics of aircraft registrations, flying licences, aircraft movements at their special airports and the hours flown as shown by a table which I have here and which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. I indicate that I have shown it to the honourable member for Gippsland. 
-The honourable member will put that motion in writing.  (Mr Lynch having submitted his motion in writing)- 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- (quorum formed). I will not keep the House for long. I strongly support the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill which is before the House. I especially support that part of the Bill which provides assistance for Tasmania, because so often we in Tasmania are criticised because of the assistance that we receive from the Australian Government. In the few moments available to me I simply want to point out that we appreciate very much- I refer particularly to the people in the city of Hobart- what the Australian Government has done in order to provide a reasonable form of transport for the people who use the public transport system. As I said, so often we are criticised by the Opposition because of what this Government is doing for Tasmania. Very briefly, I want to place on the record the appreciation of the Tasmanian Government and the Tasmanian members and senators in the Federal Parliament for what the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is doing for Tasmania in the field of urban transport. 
The Australian Government has approved in the financial year 1973-74 the provision of 30 new buses at an estimated expenditure of $lm. Also there is provision in 1973-74 of $0.04m for the purchase of ticket issuing machines and for 1974-75 the appropriation is $0.1 m, making a total expenditure for the 2-year period of $0. 14m. Also Tasmania is being granted assistance in the provision of 80 bus shelters, the estimated expenditure for which in 1973-74 was $0.02m, and in 1974-75 there is a similar estimated expenditure of $0.02m, making a total of $0.04m for the 2-year period. Only at the weekend the State Minister for Transport, my colleague and friend, the Honourable G. D. Chisholm, paid tribute to the Australian Government for its 1974-75 program. This program is worthy of mention because it provides for the replacement of 58 buses at a cost of $2.25m. It includes the provision of 36 new buses which will be used to upgrade the public transport system in Hobart, and the cost involved is $0.09m. 
The program provides also for an additional 8 buses at a cost of $0.26m. In the city of Hobart the Australian Government, working in cooperation and in conjunction with the Department of Transport in Tasmania, has acquired land for new workshops and a bus depot in Hobart at a cost of $0.4m. So Tasmania will be benefiting in the 1974-75 program by an estimated expenditure of $3m. The total cost to date of assistance projects approved for Tasmania is, if one adds up those figures, $4. 18m of which the Australian Government's contribution is $2. 79m. Of course, Tasmania never received this sort of money during the 23 years of LiberalCountry Party Government. We do appreciate that this assistance is being provided, and I think it is only fair that we should stand up in the 
House tonight and pay tribute to the Minister for Transport and to the policies that he has endorsed and also to the Australian Government for granting this money to Tasmania in order to upgrade its public transport system. 
I want to refer briefly to the position in northern Tasmania. The Minister for Transport is aware that in this financial year Tasmania sought assistance for projects in Launceston and Burnie. The Minister has ruled, of course, that these projects are not eligible for assistance because assistance is to be provided only to capital cities or to areas which have a population of 100,000 or more. According to the June 1971 census, which are the last available figures, the population of Launceston was 62,241 and the population of Burnie-Somerset was 20,087. The Minister has ruled that these areas are not eligible for assistance because their population is less than 100,000 people. But I would remind the Minister that the Government has granted assistance for sewerage works to cities and towns with a population in excess of 20,000 people. I think there is a parallel here and I hope that the Government will at some time in the near future extend its assistance to urban transport to towns which have a population in excess of 20,000 people. As I indicated, the population of Launceston and the Burnie-Somerset area would make them eligible for assistance if this were done. I know that these funds are limited and that therefore the Government has to deal initially with those areas having the greatest need. But I simply make a plea to the Government tonight to recognise the fact that assistance for sewerage works under its urban and regional development program has been extended to include towns with a population of more than 20,000 people. I simply ask the Minister for Transport to have a survey made of the cost to Australia of extending to towns and large centres with a population of more than 20,000 assistance in relation to urban transport projects. 
I want to record the facts as they apply to Tasmania. I congratulate the Government and the Minister because, as I have indicated, so often these days we are under criticism from the Opposition because of what this Government is doing to assist Tasmania. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Franklin, says, it is specious and empty criticism. I simply say that we thank the Government and we want to place on record our appreciation of what the Government is doing for urban transport in the State of Tasmania, and particularly in Hobart. But we hope that this assistance will soon be extended to places such as Launceston, the Burnie-Somerset area and other places with a population of more than 20,000 people on a similar basis to that which applies to sewerage works. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Wentworth ( W Ellicott) has not done quite enough research i :"&gt; the matter. If he had, instead of criticising  he Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is at the table, and the present Government, he would have found that for the 6 months the 'Straitsman' was tied up the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  quite clearly indicated in a letter that the provision of the service- he was referring to the restoration of the 'Straitsman' service- rested exactly with the Tasmanian Government and its Transport Commission. This went on for some 6 months from the unfortunate date on which the 'Straitsman ' was tied up. The honourable member for Wentworth talks about a harbour being built on Grassy Island. I do not think that the people of Grassy would be very happy if they thought that they were on an island isolated from the rest of King Island. 
However, I want to put the record straight so far as I am concerned in regard to the 'Straitsman'. Whenever the word 'Straitsman' is mentioned, the name of Captain R. H. Houfe comes to my mind immediately. As I have done in the House on several occasions, I want to pay a tribute to Captain Bob Houfe. He is recognised by everyone in the trade as a specialist in the island services. Apart from that and his abilities as a seaman, on a personal basis he is known as a man among men. I think that it is important to put the record straight so far as the 'Straitsman' is concerned because the position is not understood by some people. Bob Houfe commenced his company, R. H. Houfe &amp; Co. Pty Ltd, in 1 954 when he obtained the 'Loatta' from W. H. Holyman &amp; Sons Pty Ltd. It traded on the King Island run. Later, he purchased the 'Darega' from the New Guinea river trade. Of course, when he realised that this ship was too small he then designed and had built at the Devonport shipyards the 'King Islander', a magnificent little ship of 220 tons. It was designed as a Bristol freighter with bow loading. The 'King Islander' did a magnificent service and the King Island people could almost set their clocks by the schedule on which Bob Houfe ran in and out of the harbour at Currie. 
However, he realised that in order to contain rising freight costs he had to use a bigger ship. Hence, he recognised the need for a ship of the type of the 'Straitsman'. He made contact with the Standing Committee on Shipping for Circular Head in 1967. 1 want to mention very briefly the work of this Committee because it is tied up with the 'Straitsman' all the way. This Committee was formed in January 1965-10 years ago- on the occasion of the first visit of the 'Empress of Australia' to the port of Burnie. On that occasion I led a deputation of shippers to the late Frank Mercovich and Captain  Sir John  Williams. We requested an additional ship out of the port of Stanley because there was a certain backlag of timber and produce. On the 'Empress of Australia' that day the late Frank Mercovich and Captain  Sir John  Williams immediately acceded to our request and then suggested that we should set up a committee in order to obtain accurate freight forecasts and transmit them to the Australian National Line. They said that they would do everything possible to make sure that our requests were met in the future. We set up such a committee and it has operated very efficiently since 1965. It is still in existence. The purpose was to keep the port open because of the great potential of Circular Head. We were successful in obtaining a ship every 3 weeks during those years. 
Of course, we realised that it was necessary to go into roll-on roll-off services and to keep pace with modern developments in shipping if we were to continue to keep the port open. We approached the Australian National Line and other companies in order to get them interested. Certainly, in those days the Australian National Line was very sympathetic and very cooperative. Captain Menzies, who was then the technical superintendent of ANL, came to the Tasmanian coastline and conducted a survey there. He found that there was no difficulty in constructing a loading ramp at Stanley. He also interested us at the time in the possible provision of tugs and barges because these were being used on the run from the west coast of the United States of America to Honolulu. We were interested in this proposition. After some 12 months of investigation by the Australian National Line unfortunately it turned down the proposition to establish a roll-on roll-off service for us between Stanley, King Island and Melbourne. However, Bob Houfe came to the Committee in 1967. We immediately embarked upon plans for a new and larger ship and for the provision of a deep water port on King Island in order to get the service operating. We saw then the possibility of the triangular service that we had all hoped for becoming a reality instead of a dream. 
Of course, the honourable member for Wentworth gave all the credit to the previous LiberalCountry Party Government for the development of the port at Grassy. Of course, he does not realise the great amount of work that the Standing Committee on Shipping for Circular Head did with the Tasmanian Government at the time and the fact that the Tasmanian Labor Government at the time approached the Government here and shared the cost of up to $100,000 for a survey into the feasibility of a deepwater port on King Island. The study was done by Macdonald Wagner and Priddle. They unfortunately came up with the idea of a port at Currie. Of course, this was hopeless for us because it envisaged the use again of ships of only 300 tons. This spelt the death knell at the time of a triangular service because such a service envisaged larger ships. 
This report was given to us in June 1969. Fortunately for us Peko-Wallsend Ltd who had the Grassy mine commissioned Maunsell and Partners in August 1 969 to conduct a feasibility study of an all-weather port at Grassy. We were very delighted. I will read quickly from the official report of the Standing Committee on Shipping for Circular Head. It stated: 
The Consulting Engineers reported in September that the project was feasible. It provided for a harbour at Little Grassy Bay with a berth for a 200 feet roll-on roll-off vessel and moorings for a 500 feet tanker, using over-burden and reject rock from the mine as construction materials. The cost of this facility, complete with access roads and with a reclaimed and paved marshalling area would be approximately $ 1.3m. 
Negotiations began almost immediately between PekoWallsend Ltd, and the Tasmanian Government - 
This dispells all the praise given by the honourable member for Wentworth to his colleagues -  on the new port for Grassy and the mining company bought capital equipment in excess of $!4m to start the breakwater. 
After this work was started, Captain Houfe was able to go ahead and call tenders for a new vessel which he did in 1970. He let the contract to the shipyards of North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd in Cairns. 
I can recall that Friday, 4 September 1970. It was a red letter day for the Standing Committee on Snipping for Circular Head when we entertained Captain Houfe at a special luncheon in Stanley to celebrate the signing of the contract. During the lunch we received the following telegram from  Mr Fry,  the Managing Director of NQEA in Cairns which read: 
Reference stern loading vessel for Stanley-King IslandMelbourne trade Stop Keel laid today Kindest regards. 
So we thought that we were under way. We had a deep water port under way at Grassy on King Island and we had the keel laid for the 'Straitsman'. But, of course, one of the factors that militated against 'Straitsman'- and this is the purpose of this Bill- was the delay in the construction of the Grassy port and the procrastination by the then Liberal Party Government in Tasmania.  Mr Bethune,  the Leader of that Party, dilly dallied and just refused to give us the green light to go ahead. 
However, 'Straitsman' came into service and commenced on 1 May 1972. It is extremely unfortunate that after 7 round trips she tied up on 16 June 1972 due to liquidity problems. Certainly it was a bad time of the year. It was towards the end of the financial year. It was a time when orders for timber were running down naturally because stocktaking was going on in the timber holding yards on the mainland. So the cargo was not there at that time. In addition to that, of course, there was a problem with the freight forwarders. I just point out that the general cargo rate for 'Straitsman ' was $ 1 8 a ton. Of that, the freight forwarders took $12, leaving Captain Houfe with $6 of which he had to pay port dues of $2. So out of $18 a ton for general cargo, Captain R. H. Houfe with the 'Straitsman' netted only $4 a ton. So there were these problems which, as I have said, culminated in the liquidity problem. 
For 6 months negotiations were conducted with the previous Government and  Mr Peter  Nixon, who was then the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As I have said negotiations were being conducted even a month before the 1972 elections. The then Minister continued to say in a letter that he, on behalf of the Liberal-Country Party Government, considered that the provision of the service, which would have meant the restoration of the 'Straitsman', rested essentially with the Tasmanian State Government and the Tasmanian Transport Commission. It is true that the Australian Labor Party made a policy decision that it would move in and try to do something about the restoration of the service. I saw the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  at 12 o'clock on the night on which he was appointed to his portfolio. He said 'AH right', and the next morning he sent a telegram to the Australian National Line asking for a report. Of course, the Australian National Line came up with a report that the 'Straitsman' would lose $500,000 a year in her trading. I want to make it quite clear that I did everything I could. The Minister showed me the report when he received it from the ANL. Included in it was this comment: 'In the light of experience some forecast of losses would be reduced'. I immediately asked the Minister whether he would send officers to Tasmania again to survey the cargo potential. When meetings were held in Tasmania I was told confidentially that the service would be a goer and everything would be all right. 
I do not know what went wrong, but later I was officially told that notwithstanding the second visit by officers and all the work that we had done- and I have all the documents with me- the saving would be only $27,000 a year. The official report to the Government by the ANL indicated that the 'Straitsman' would lose $500,000 a year. I followed this up and I submitted 2 ship's budgets. I have them with me. One of them, which was prepared in November 1972, indicated that the ship's revenue would be $1,646,300 and the expenses for the year would be $1,200,294, showing a trading surplus for the ship of $446,006. 1 gave this budget to the Minister. I also gave him a budget for 5 April 1973 which was compiled by NQEA. It showed that the summary of revenue for the ship was estimated at $1,705,800 and the expenses were estimated at $ 1 ,349,600, leaving a balance to the credit of the ship's trading operations of $356,200. 
However, the ANL still persisted that in its view there would be a substantial loss. I think that the position is best summed up in an article which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 8 March 1 973. It stated: 
Shipping officials said in Sydney last night that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  had tried to honour election promises concerning the King Island ferry service by instructing that the Australian National Line should take over the service. 
However, according to these officials, the Treasury had refused to underwrite the losses incurred or likely to be incurred by the ANL in this trade and the ANL could not operate a losing trade without Treasury permission and subsidy. 
Of course all this happened in the first few months of the Labor Government's coming to office. It raises now the question of the part played by the Treasury, which is referred to in the report I have just quoted. I have in mind the disclosures by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  in yesterday's Press that in many cases the Treasury distorted facts to suit its own ends. I maintain that the advice given to the Government was incorrect, and I have advised the Minister of this. When the 'Straitsman' came back into service it actually operated at a profit. Its reentry into the trade was made possible by the loan of $1,415,000 from the Australian Government to the Tasmanian Government and the purpose of this Bill is to authorise this expenditure. The 'Straitsman' came into service in September 1973 and sank in the Yarra in March of this year. These were very tragic circumstances caused by a combination of unexpected and unfortunate occurrences. 
I pay tribute to the Minister for Transport, who is at the table, because he immediately gave approval for the Tasmanian Transport Commission to import the 'Rah' from Finland. I pay tribute also to the Tasmanian Transport Commission, particularly the Associate Commissioner for Shipping. The honourable member for Gippsland will recall him. He was a very good and trusted servant of the Department of Shipping and Transport at one time. He is now the Associate Commissioner for Shipping in Tasmania,  Mr Morehead.  He is a very fine officer and has done a fine job in very difficult times for King Island and its people. He has been well backed up- contrary to what the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said- by our Minister for Transport. 
While the 'Straitsman' was out of operation our Minister for Transport issued without question permits to the Tasmanian Government to enable King Island to be served. On 11 April 1974 the Tasmanian Transport Commission chartered the 'Alban' which commenced operations on 23 June. It is still in service, thanks to the Minister for Transport, and will stay in service until 3 1 December. Also, we chartered the 'Ida Clausen', and that ship undertook 7 stock voyages in May and June to relieve the stock position. These 2 ships that were on charter and for which import licences were given by the Minister have been backed up by the 'Joseph Banks ' of 900 tons which is the Commission's own ship. That has done a magnificent job. I pay tribute to the officers and men of the ships and the waterside workers for the great work they have done through these difficult times. 
On May 15 the Tasmanian Transport Commission purchased the 'Rah' from Finland and took possession of it on 6 August. Modifications to meet the Australian requirements have been completed in the United Kingdom. It is due in Melbourne next week on 10 December. It will go immediately into the trade. The Standing Committee on Shipping of which I have had the honour for the last 10 years to be the secretary, will be meeting in Smithton again on Thursday of next week to arrange the details with the shippers for the 'Rah'. 
Very briefly, what is the future for King Island? I know and I admit that we have been through very difficult times because of circumstances beyond the control of this Government and because of the accident to the 'Straitsman '. The 'Straitsman' is due back into service next July. Also, the 'Rah' will be in service and we will have more than adequate shipping available for King Island. The Australian Government has done all it can. I shall summarise briefly. This Bill authorises a loan of $1.4 15m for the 'Straitsman'. The Minister for Transport, as I indicated, readily gave permits for the 'Alban' and the 'Ida Clausen'. He has given a permit for the 'Rah'. The Government is to underwrite the loan for the 'Rah'. 
This is in direct contrast to the record of previous Liberal Party Government. I mention that for the 6 months the 'Straitsman' was tied up the previous Government did not do anything and maintained that it was a Tasmanian Government responsibility. I just wanted to place on record my involvement with the 'Straitsman', to pay a tribute to Bob Houfe and to say that after seeing the very adverse report from the Australian National Line- which is recognised as a very competent shipping body in Australia- the Australian Government has acted responsibly. I do not think it could have done anything else. I am very sorry indeed about what has happened because the report proved to be incorrect. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that more than 19 000 tons of cargo is piled up at north western and northern ports in Tasmania as a result of the recent stoppage of the Merchant Service Guild and the work to regulations move by terminal superintendents? What action does the Government contemplate for the lifting of this backlog of cargo? Finally, will the Minister use his good offices with the Australian Council of Trade Unions to ensure that a decision the Council made a few years ago to exempt Tasmanian trade from industrial disputes is implemented in view of the fact that we in Tasmania do not enjoy the alternative forms of interstate transport- road and rail? 
-Thanks to the indulgence of the Chair we have been listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  making a dummy run of the election speech which he will make for the by-election in Bass. Of course, he will need to do much better than this in Launceston. However, I want to deal with the matter that is before us. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for a grant not exceeding $650,000 for Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd to maintain employment in its mills at Burnie in Tasmania at Ballarat in Victoria- it would be interesting to know whether the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Erwin)  is to take part in this debate- and at Shoalhaven in New South 
Wales. Under section 96 of the Australian Constitution, the Australian Government will make the payment to Tasmania, which in turn will make advances to the company, subject to certain employment conditions that I will deal with at a later stage. 
This grant is one of 4 proposals which have been the subject of negotiations between the company and the Australian Government since 1 April when, at a meeting in Sydney, the company was officially advised that it could expect to receive no assistance from the report prepared by the Temporary Assistance Authority. The Australian Government has now agreed to the 4 proposals, and we all hope that orders will soon pick up making it possible for a return to full employment. The proposals included a monitoring control being established by the Department of Manufacturing Industry over the level of orders for imported paper, so that if orders for imported paper reached a rate of 6000 tonnes of dutiable paper in any successive period of 3 months, an automatic reference will be made immediately by the Department to the Temporary Assistance Authority. This sets a trigger figure for another reference, if imports are averaging 2000 tonnes a month. 
In addition, the Australian Government will issue a directive to all its departments to purchase Australian-made paper in any of their requirements. I sincerely hope that the State governments will also encourage their departments to buy Australian-made paper. When the company previously encountered trouble in 1961, the Tasmanian Government at that time instructed all its departments and instrumentalities to buy Australian-made paper, and although this is a widely held concept, it is a matter for regret that in other mainland States we note occasionally where some State governments buy paper from overseas. The third proposal related to paper for telephone directories. The Australian Government has agreed that the PostmasterGeneral's Department will increase its order from an anticipated 3000 tonnes to 6000 tonnes from the company's mill at Wesley Vale in Tasmania. I should point out that this has had an immediate effect on employment at Wesley Vale where it was anticipated that there would be some retrenchments and work sharing. However, with this order, there has been no marked effect on the employment situation at Wesley Vale except in the reduction from a 7 day week to a 5 day week. Finally, the Australian Government agreed on a grant of up to $650,000 to assist employment at APPM and this is embodied m the Bill now before Parliament. The grant will reimburse the company for interest paid on a loan necessary to finance the accumulation of additional stocks. 
It is important that we review the circumstances leading up to this grant. On 1 3 December last year APPM announced its intention to retrench 160 employees because of falling orders for paper. I immediately contacted the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry and made arrangements for his personal assistant,  Mr John  Iromonger and  Mr Noel  Scrivener of the Department of Manufacturing Industry to go to Tasmania for discussions with the management and unions of APPM at their Burnie and Wesley Vale plants. These officers completed a report which formed the basis of discussions held in Melbourne one week later, on Friday 20 December, at a conference convened by the Acting Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  and attended by representatives of APPM, the unions and myself. An agreement was arrived at whereby the company agreed that there would be no further retrenchments pending a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on the problems facing APPM. 
I point out that the company showed great social responsibility in keeping its bargain over the next few months by not retrenching any employees, even though stocks of paper built up to very high levels. Orders for paper were running at approximately 40 per cent of what was expected during the first 3 months of this year and the company was obliged to stockpile approximately $12m worth of paper. The plant at Burnie was producing 4300 tonnes of paper a week and, with orders at a rate of 1800 tonnes a week, 2500 tonnes of paper was being stockpiled every week. I understand that an additional financial burden of approximately $2m had to be met by the company in insurance, cartage and storage of this paper. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  released the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on 7 April. He announced that the Authority had not recommended any assistance for the company. The Temporary Assistance Authority advised against any further restrictions on the import of paper but said that it was fully aware that Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd faced a difficult period until the middle of 1 975. 
At this point I must take issue with the Leader of the Opposition. He blamed the Government's action in regard to imports as one of the major problems affecting this company. I must point out to him- of course, he should know this- that the Temporary Assistance Authority is an entirely independent body which makes its appraisal and recommendations of the case on the facts before it. This particular report indicated that there should not be further restrictions on the import of paper. So the argument advanced by the Leader of the Opposition is entirely phoney, except for the point that I will make in a few minutes in relation to the fact that imports did rise during the end of 1974. But for the period under review- up to the end of 1974- the Temporary Assistance Authority, which is completely independent, found that there was no reason why there should be further restrictions on the import of paper. 
But under the Temporary Assistance Authority legislation, as in all fairness the Leader of the Opposition should have pointed out, the Government is obliged to accept the Authority's decision. However, because of my involvement in the problems facing APPM and its employees as from 13 December last year, the Special Minister of State said in his Press statement that discussions on the report had already been held between the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  and interested parties.  Mr Lionel  Bowen went on to say that discussions on ways of helping the company overcome its present difficulties and maintain employment were continuing. 
The problems facing APPM have resulted from 2 causes. We all remember that there were widespread reports about the middle of last year that there was a world shortage of paper. This resulted in panic buying by paper merchants and customers throughout Australia. Of course, this is a point which the Leader of the Opposition skated completely over. We all know of the reports of panic buying by customers and of world shortage of paper. This particular aspect was referred to by the manager of APPM at a mass meeting which was held at the Wivenhoe showgrounds on Monday, 10 March, when the manager made it quite clear that paper stocks being held by APPM customers came from panic buying in 1974 but that they must eventually run down and this could result in increased orders from the mill. Coupled with this panic buying last year was the marked increase in imports towards the end of 1974. 1 readily admit this and note that those imports took place. Imports in August 1974 were running at 190 per cent above those for August 1973 and the September figure rose to 255 per cent. Imports fell away at the end of the year and have been of no significance for the first 5 months of 1975. However, as I pointed out, a monitoring system has now been established and an immediate reference will be made if imports reach the rate of 6000 tonnes in any consecutive period of 3 months. 
I have mentioned before the fact that orders for APPM paper are running at the rate of only 40 per cent of what was expected in the first 3 months of this year and that it was obvious that the company would have to take drastic steps to reduce production in order to clear the accumulated stocks of paper. The Government was advised by the company when it received advice that the Temporary Assistance Authority had not recommended any assistance that it would have to cut production to 50 per cent. A reduction of 50 per cent of production would have meant the retrenchment of 1 100 employees at the company's 4 mills at Burnie and Wesley Vale in Tasmania, Ballarat in Victoria and Shoalhaven in New South Wales. More than half of this total number of employees would have been retrenched at Burnie with corresponding retrenchments at the other 3 mills. The 4 proposals that I have outlined were designed to assist the company to increase its production from 50 per cent to 75 per cent. Everybody knew that the company could not hope to go immediately up to 100 per cent production until it had cleared its accumulated stocks and orders had picked up. 
I have pointed out also how the orders of paper for telephone directories have helped the mill at Wesley Vale to the extent of ensuring at least a 5-day working week. The other 3 mills could run at only 75 per cent production with no retrenchments, providing the various trade unions co-operated and accepted the principle of work sharing on the basis of 3 weeks on and one week off. The alternative to work sharing involved the shutting down of one machine at Burnie. This would have involved the retrenchment of 230 people in Burnie, 130 people at Shoalhaven and 50 people at Ballarat. By its action the Australian Government has saved the jobs of some 700 people and by work sharing it can be seen that the jobs of 1 100 people could be saved. Mass meetings of unionists were held and the work-sharing principle has been adopted at Shoalhaven and Ballarat. In Burnie 9 unions out of the 11 unions involved agreed to accept work sharing. Thus, approximately 2000 employees at Burnie are working on the basis of 3 weeks on and one week off for a 2-month period after which discussions will again be held between the unions and the management and the position will be reviewed. Approximately 200 unionists in the other 2 unions involved rejected the work sharing principle and 6 retrenchments have taken place. 
In giving the assistance outlined in this Bill the Australian Government is anxious that employment be maintained at the highest possible level. I repeat that by its action the Government saved the jobs of at least 700 people and with the acceptance of work sharing, this could result in saving the jobs of 1 100 people. No one wants to see large sections of the plant closed down because this could have very serious consequences on employment and in social terms in Ballarat, Shoalhaven and Burnie particularly, both for the families directly concerned and for many of those indirectly dependent on the company and its employees. I point out that alternative employment opportunities are very limited and that Burnie particularly is heavily dependent on the company's operations. The Minister referred in his second reading speech to clause 5 of the Bill. This relates to employment undertakings to be ' given by the company and refers to the maintenance of the 75 per cent production with which I have already dealt. With the co-operation of all unions, work sharing is a possibility. However, if some unions refuse there will have to be some retrenchments from within their ranks. If, overall, work sharing fails, it is inevitable that one machine will close and retrenchments will be spread equitably between the members of the unions involved. I have referred already to the number of employees who could be involved. If it becomes necessary to make any other retrenchments beyond this point the express agreement in writing of the Tasmanian and Australian Governments will be required. The company will keep the 2 Governments advised of the levels of employment and of the levels of production and stocks in respect of its pulp and paper manufacturing mills each month, together with such information and explanations as are required from time to time. I commend to the House the Bill and the assistance given by the Australian Government in its 4-point proposal. I must point out that we received no assistance from the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1961 when 450 employees were retrenched sent out of the gates, and employment at the mill was reduced to a 4-day working week. 
The Opposition fails to recognise the vital contribution that APPM makes to the Tasmanian economy. This was highlighted in a recent report which was compiled by economists from John Paterson Urban Systems Pty Ltd and which shows that the APPM group contributes more than $40m a year to the economy of Tasmania. The study commissioned by the company shows that APPM employs more than 3500 people, or 1 1.5 per cent of Tasmania's total manufacturing work force. In the north-west region, APPM employs 42.6 per cent or almost half of the manufacturing workers. APPM also is responsible for the indirect employment of almost another 800 people through the letting of contract work, particularly in the forest based activities of logging, carting and roadmaking operations. The research shows that the group provides employment opportunities for a wide range of skilled and unskilled workers, for urban concentrated workers as well as for dispersed rural workers, and for an ample number of female workers, which in the current economic climate is a most important factor. I point out that APPM has 372 females on its payroll in Burnie alone. 
The study concludes: 
By any standards, the APPM group's operations in Tasmania represent a significant and vital manufacturing industry. 
When examined in the context of the Tasmanian State economy, and of particular regional economies within the State, the APPM operations assume far larger dimensions and become a vital component contributing in a highly significant way to the current and future welfares of those economies. 
Expenditure by APPM within Tasmania on the purchase of materials and services during the year 1972-73 totalled $ 18.7m. A further $2.8m went to fixed capital expenditure. More than $3.6m was paid directly and indirectly to State and local governments. All this money expended in Tasmania is redistributed in the regional and State economies, directly generating further income and employment in all sectors of those economies and also indirectly generating benefits by multiplier effects of second round spending. 
During the period under review in the report- 1972-73- the company paid out a total of over $ 17.4m in wages and salaries. APPM also purchased $20.2m worth of materials and services that were manufactured or provided within the State of Tasmania. This included $5.6m worth of packaging, engineering and other material supplies. I should point out that the bulk of APPM spending is concentrated in Burnie, Devonport and the north-west coast area, with significant expenditure in Launceston. The study emphasises how this spending has created and supported specific industries in the regional economies- for example, the production of bale flats and pallets at Burnie and of engineering supplies at Burnie, Devonport and Launceston. I am very pleased to be a supporter of this Australian Government which was quick to recognise the problem when attention was drawn to it on 20 December 1974. 1 am very proud indeed to note the quick response by the responsible Australian Government Ministers to the need for assistance- unlike what happened in 1961 when the company received no assistance, when 450 people were sacked and when the employees were put on a 4-day working week. This time the Australian Government was quick to give assistance and came up with a 4-point proposal. I have outlined the 4 points which have been accepted by the Government and by the company. One of them is the subject of the Bill before the House. It provides for a grant of up to $650,000 to enable the company to service a loan which was necessary because of the large stocks of paper it holds in its inventories at this stage. I have pointed out the reason why the company built up the stocks and the great social responsibility it snowed to its employees and to the State of Tasmania. 
I sincerely hope that it will not be long before it is possible to reduce the stocks as orders pick up so that the company will be able to increase its production from the present 75 per cent to 100 per cent as a result of the action of this Government and the employees will be able to go back to working full time. I commend those unions which have accepted the work sharing principle in an attempt to see that at least the majority of the people in the mill are kept in production and kept in employment until such time as conditions return to normal and APPM gets back to full production in Burnie, Ballarat in Victoria, Shoalhaven and Wesley Vale. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that over 3000 applicants are registered for accommodation with the Tasmanian Housing Department? Can the Minister say what action the Australian Government is taking to overcome this waiting list? 
I wish to make a couple of comments before I reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  spoke about the costs in Tasmania. I refer him to the remarks made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  when he clearly pointed out that the figures produced by the Commonwealth Statistician show that the increase in the consumer price index is less in Hobart than the percentage increases for the 6 capital cities for the period since Labor took office. That should answer any criticism that the honourable member has regarding the increased costs brought about by the action of this Government. 
The raising of this matter of public importance is only a political exercise. The honourable member for Gippsland had to raise this matter here today because of what happened in Launceston last weekend when the  Deputy  Leader of his Party was down in Launceston. According to the Press reports he went there to form a branch of the Party. Of the thousands and thousands of people who live in the city of Launceston, only 25 people turned up at the meeting. The honourable member's Party realised that it had to raise this matter here today as a means of getting on the hustings and trying to make a mouthful out of the difficulties facing Tasmania. In reality the honourable member for Gippsland was the worst Minister for Transport that I have seen in my time in this Parliament, and I will bear out that statement in a few minutes. 
The honourable member for Wentworth also spoke about Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd. I wish to correct a couple of things he said. It is a pity that the honourable members are not Tasmanians who understand the problem, because the exports of Australian Newsprint Mills are carried by the Union Steam Ship Company in a great percentage of cases. The honourable member spoke about the backlog of paper cargo at Australian Newsprint Mills which cannot be shipped. Of course, the Minister for Transport has given single voyage permits, as he has done in many other cases, in an effort to clear the backlog. When the honourable member talks about Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd, he does not realise that it exports its products at the 1972 freight rates. So it is a pity that the people who purport to speak for Tasmania in this House do not do their homework and come up with the facts and the correct figures first. 
Speaking in this debate also gives me the opportunity to refer to the leading article which appeared in the  Advocate  of last week. It referred to the Australian National Line and said that there was a time when Bass Strait shipping did very well without subsidies. Of course, that is poppycock, because the previous Government in order to meet increased costs went along on its merry way increasing freight rates, despite all protests from all types of people. As the Minister pointed out, the previous Government did nothing at all to meet the increases in freight rates. It did not even adopt the recommendation that was brought down by the Senate select committee which looked into this matter. 
I think it would be a worthwhile exercise to run over just briefly the increases that occurred during the last 2 years of the term of office of the previous Government. In August 1972 there was an increase of 12% per cent on all Tasmanian trade. In July 1971 there was an increase of 12!6 per cent on all Sydney to Tasmania trade and an 8 per cent increase on Melbourne to Tasmania trade. In August 1972 there was a 12 per cent increase on the dense cargo rate from Sydney to Tasmania and an increase of 25 per cent on the dense cargo rate from Melbourne to Tasmania. Those increases occurred under a LiberalCountry Party government. There was a surcharge increase of 20 per cent on hazardous cargo. The freight rate on newsprint was increased by 17 per cent. The 22 per cent concession on heavy cargo was removed in August 1 972 and the 1 8 per cent concession on industrial machinery was also removed. Of course, Tasmanian industries were placed at a disadvantage compared with their counterparts on the mainland. 
What did the previous Government do, despite all the increases it brought in or sanctioned in freight rates from Tasmania? It is true that this was a very contentious issue, a very hot issue, at the time of the elections held in December 1 972. It was a terribly important issue to Tasmanians. The Leader of my Party promised that freight rates across Bass Strait would be equalised on a ton-mile basis with rail and road freights to the capital cities on the mainland. He promised the reintroduction of the Inter-State Commission to deal with our problems. The Opposition has held up the legislation for the reintroduction of that Commission and it is still holding up the passage of that legislation in the Senate. Fancy honourable members opposite stating that they want to do something for Tasmania. They can do something immediately. They can clear the decks in the Senate and let the Inter-State Commission legislation pass through the Parliament. 
Labor has carried out its promises. In its first Budget this Government provided $55m for new ships and equipment. This was done in our first year in office. That amount can be compared with the $10m that was provided in the last Budget of the Liberal-Country Party Government. From 1 July 1973 this Government provided a subsidy of $ lm to assist with the passenger fares on the  Empress of Tasmania  and the  Australian Trader.  Those ships have lost $2.7m on the service they provide. Even with the $lm subsidy provided by the Government, the Australian National Line will stand to lose $1.7m. As an indication of the faith this Government has in Tasmania and in an attempt to assist the tourist trade and to stabilise the passenger rates the $lm was provided last year and is again provided in this Budget. 
What happened in September of last year? Immediately this Government was confronted with a proposed increase of 25 per cent in the ANL freight rate to Tasmania it granted a $2m subsidy. When we look back to the position applying in 1972 when we took office, we find that the average freight rate was $8 a ton for northbound cargo and that there was approximately one million tons of cargo northbound from Tasmania. So a 25 per cent subsidy on this amounted to $2m and that subsidy was paid by the Government. Since then there have been other increases in the subsidy. The subsidy of $2m that was agreed to last September has now risen to $3.9m in this Budget. This subsidy, coupled with the $lm that is being paid by this Government in respect of the passenger services, now means that the Labor Government is subsidising Tasmania to the extent of $4m to $5m a year. Yet Opposition members say: 'What have you done? Why do not you do something?' I say to Opposition members: 'What did you do as a government?' The answer is that they did nothing; not a thing. The previous Government never allowed for the payment of a penny in the form of a subsidy. As the Minister for Transport pointed out, if we include the wheat subsidy the subsidies paid to Tasmania by this Government now amount to over $7m. 
Opposition members talk about the Bureau of Transport Economics and say what a wonderful body it was. Then they criticise the southbound freight rate. Of course, they forget the relevant part of the report 'An Assessment of Tasmania's Interstate Transport Problems', presented by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I wish to goodness that Opposition members would read the report. If they did, they would find this passage: 
ANL, in their evidence to the Senate Committee of Inquiry suggested that Tasmanians were not 'disadvantaged in their southbound cargoes' due principally to the presence of price equalisation schemes. 
The Government knows this to be the case. We have had the matter and all the evidence examined. The Government knows only too well, as the report goes on to state, the difficulties involved in subsidising imports because of the price equalisation scheme. If imports were subsidised, the price equalisation scheme could be dropped, which would be to our disadvantage. We Tasmanians know that full well. Anybody who has studied the price equalisation scheme on imports into Tasmania realises that the Australian National Line was correct in its evidence. Opposition members talk about this report as being their document. They had the report prepared but did nothing about it. They have not even read it. They do not know what it states about southbound cargo in any shape or form. I agree that the Minister for Transport has done an excellent job. Let honourable members make no mistake about that. He has assisted at any time there has been a backlog of cargo. 
At this time last year Australian Pulp and Paper Manufacturers Ltd increased their paper output by over 30 per cent because there was supposed to be a worldwide shortage of paper. What happened? The paper merchants all over Australia started buying up paper. They still have it and we still cannot sell paper. Tasmanian paper mills are running at about only 70 per cent of capacity and in some places the mills are running down to 40 per cent of capacity. The paper merchants still hold paper stocks because of the scare that was created. The present position has nothing to do with imports. Without any reference to the Australian National Line or to the Government and without advising the Government APPM had increased its production of paper by about 30 per cent. Of course, there was a backlog of supply. But what did this Minister for Transport do? Immediately we advised him of the position he sent Captain Clarke of the Department of Transport down to Tasmania to examine the position in relation to the backlog. Immediately, ANL ships were sent on to the run to help relieve the position. 
Last year ANL ships made 592 general cargo ship calls to Tasmania's 4 main ports. This averages out to a ship call rate in excess of 1 1 a week. I could go on to explain what has happened in relation to the cargo handling facilities in Melbourne. At Devonport we have a new crane and at Bell Bay there is continuing expansion. All this has been done under this Government whereas the previous Government provided $10m for such works in its last Budget. It did nothing to provide for increased shipping and increased trade in Melbourne. A lot of our troubles stem from the lack of action of the previous Government. We did not have the port handling facilities to handle the increased cargo. But I say that this Government has done a very good job in providing the subsidy not only for the passenger but also for the freight. The Opposition did nothing. It talked about doing things. It left the Straitsman tied up for 8 months and did nothing about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle-Minister for Transport)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I am pleased to support this Budget because for the first time in over 20 years some justice is being afforded under the new personal taxation system to the young married couples with families to raise and to educate. The Budget has been hailed as one of the most sweeping reforms of personal taxation ever undertaken in Australia and has been described as one of the greatest social reforms introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government. The new tax system substantially lowers the tax burden on the lower and middle income family man and exempts 500 000 current taxpayers from paying any tax at all because it will lift substantially minimum taxable income levels. A taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 dependent student children in receipt of an income of less than $5,372 a year will now pay no tax. The increase in family allowances are far greater than in any previous Budget so that the average earner's tax saving for a dependent wife is more than doubled and his saving for dependent children is increased by 50 per cent or more. 
To give an example, a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 children who earns $160 a week will receive a tax saving of $7 a week. If he were receipt of a salary of $200 a week, the tax saving would be more than $ 10 a week. The present concessional allowances for dependants are replaced by more generous rebates providing for $400 for a spouse, $200 for the first child under age 1 6 and student child and $ 1 50 for other children. I am especially pleased to see the introduction of a separate additional rebate of $200 known as the sole parent rebate for parents without partners. This will provide relief for one parent families. I know of several of these families in my electorate and I appreciate the difficulties they experience. This new rebate is a recognition by this Government of the difficulties facing this section of the community. Throughout Australia, about 100 000 supporting parents will benefit from this. 
I am very pleased also that concessions for educational expenses which were previously set at $150 will now be increased to $250 per student child. The new tax system, as the  Age  newspaper pointed out, has much to recommend it in terms of equity. It removes serious defects from the old structure and it provides positive benefits for the overwhelming bulk of taxpayers. The Government's policy of adjusting pensions in the autumn and spring has been continued with an increase of $2.75 in the single rate pension and $4.50 for married couples. Under the repatriation proposals, the total and permanent incapacity pension rate is increased $6 a week to $74.10 a week with commensurate increases in other war pension rates. The TPI rate is to be increased a further $6 in the autumn of 1 976 and the other rates will be then further increased in line with the consumer price index. 
The education allocation which has almost quadrupled in the last 2 years will be increased by $237m to a new total of $ 1,904m. Our opponents say that there is nothing in this Budget for Tasmania. But I point out that the Government hopes to spend about $3m on the Devonport Technical College and on the development of student residences at the Burnie Technical College. The impetus of the improvements which have come about under the Labor Government will be maintained and recurrent expenditure continued so that existing standards and staffstudent ratios are maintained. The Minister for 
Education  (Mr Beazley)  has been to my electorate twice already this year and has arranged for the Schools Commission to prepare a special report on the needs of Catholic schools on the north-west and west coasts of Tasmania. Professor P. D. Tannock,  Mr D.  M. Bennett and  Mr A.  D. Wood visited the areas from 22 to 24 July. We look forward with interest to getting the report and I commend the Minister on behalf of everyone associated with government and nongovernment schools for the great work that he is doing in the administration of this important portfolio. 
In the last year in my electorate- this answers criticism that nothing is being done for Tasmania- and I emphasise that I speak only for my electorate, government schools benefited by $6 1 6,000, non-government schools by $3 1 1 ,000, disadvantaged government schools by $1 17,000 and the teachers centre in Burnie by $75,000. Of course, we draw the comparison of what happened during the 23 years of the previous government when nothing was given to us. These amounts, together with Australian Government funds provided under Labor for the technical schools in the area, approximate $1.3m. This Australian Labor Government places great emphasis on social security, education and health. An amount of $ 102.4m is contained in the Budget for grants to the States for health programs. This amount represents a substantial increase on the amount provided last year. The total figure for the programs then was $66.6m of which Tasmania received $2.9m. This year, as I say, the total amount provided has increased to $ 102.4m of which Tasmania receives $4.5m. Grants to Tasmania include the provision of money for the following purposes: Community health facilities, $1.8m; tuberculosis control, $305,000; school dental schemes, which of course are an innovation under this Government, $2.1m; health education campaigns, $51,000; blood transfusion services, $85,000; recurrent expenditure by health planning agencies, $20,000; home dialysis supplies and equipment, $114,000. 
I turn now to one part of the Budget which is of particular interest to people in Tasmania. The statements on page 42 of Budget Paper No. 9 which deal with urban and regional development in 1975-76 confirm the financial commitment for the north-west Tasmanian regional water supply scheme which was announced in last year's Budget. The document states: 
Assistance will be available towards the cost of the northwest Tasmania regional water supply scheme which will replace the existing practice whereby urban settlements have separate water supplies. The scheme is expected to cost $ 10m over a 7-year period. The Australian Government will contribute 60 per cent of the cost, including $840,000 in 1975-76. 
We welcome the financial support given in this Budget because the new scheme is designed to give people in the 8 municipalities of that region an assured supply of clean water until the year 2000. The important meeting of the 8 municipalities will be held at the end of this week. I sincerely hope that after many months of discussion they will now be able to reach some unanimity and go ahead with the scheme to use this $840,000 which is provided in the Budget for this purpose. 
In the debate on Tasmanian shipping last week I outlined freight increases that had occurred under the last Liberal-Country Party Government. Despite the pleas from Tasmanians, that Government provided nothing in the form of a subsidy to assist us with the tourist industry and to assist Tasmanian industries in their struggle to compete with their counterparts on the mainland of Australia. This Budget provides an amount of almost $5m in subsidy payments to assist Tasmania. As from 1 July 1973, an amount of $ lm was provided to stabilise passenger fares on the  Empress of Australia.  This payment has continued this year and will assist towards offsetting the $2.7m loss experienced in the passenger trade on the  Empress of Australia  and the  Australian Trader.  Last September, the Government gave us a subsidy of $2m on northbound freight from Tasmania when the Australian National Line sought to increase the freight rates by 25 per cent. This has the effect of maintaining the freight rate at the 1972 level before we came to Government and is of great assistance to Tasmanian industry in exporting its products to the markets on the mainland. With subsequent rises, this subsidy has now been increased to $3.9m and it is very pleasing to note that the freight rates on this service are being maintained at the present levels pending the receipt of the report of the Nimmo Committee of inquiry into Tasmanian freight rates. This financial support gives the lie to the claim that Tasmania has received nothing from this Government when, in effect, it was the previous Government which gave no financial assistance for our shipping services. As a result of the subsidies Tasmanian shippers are currently paying only 60 per cent of the sea freight that applied in 1959. At the same time, the cost of living in Australia has more than doubled and average weekly earnings have increased  Vh  times. 
Taking into account the Australian Government's freight and passenger subsidies, the $1.7m subsidy on wheat freight and another $1.7m for the Australian National Line's loss on passenger services this financial year, Tasmania's benefit from government sponsored schemes Will now amount to some $9m this financial year. This amounts to $22.50 for each person living In Tasmania or over $80 for each tasmanian household. I repeat that nothing was given to Tasmania in the 23 years of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government despite the fact that freight rates increased by 30 per cent. 
We often hear the propaganda claims from members of the Liberal Party that the Government is out to destroy the 4-port concept for Tasmania and to concentrate on the one-port concept. These malicious rumours were dispelled by the comments of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in a debate last week and by the policy statement of Premier Bm Neilson last weekend. The port of Burnie alone has increased its volume of revenue from $ 1.25m to $2. 33m in the past 7 years. In that period the total cargo volume has almost doubled to 1.5 million tons. Fifty per cent of the cargoes, both overseas and interstate, are bulk cargoes and therefore it would be unthinkable to have to transport and ship those goods from other ports. We also hear the claim that costs have increased in Tasmania because of the policies of this Labor Government. But the percentage increase in the consumer price index of the Australian Statistician is less for our capital city of Hobart than is the percentage increase for the average of the 6 capital cities over the period from December 1972 to June this year. This does not mean that Hobart 's prices are lower but it does show that Tasmania 's prices on items in the index have not risen as fast as for all the capitals taken together since this Labor Government came to office. 
Terminal faculties, moreover, especially in Melbourne, Devonport and Bell Bay also have been greatly improved last year. A continuing development is going on which Will provide us with a speedier turn-around of shipping and so improve our service. This is a much different state of affairs when compared with what happened under the previous Government. The rundown in port facilities which was allowed to happen under the previous Government was the main cause for many of the backlogs of cargo which used to build up to the detriment of the economy of Tasmania. I place on record also the expressions of thanks which we have received from local government because of the attitude of the Labor Administration in assisting local municipal councils with direct grants from the Grants Commission. I know the councils in my area are most appreciative of the grants that are made without any strings attached. In 1974 the 12 municipalities in my electorate received an amount of $500,000. This amount has been increased by recent allocations to $605,000 for this year. The 2 larger municipalities of Burnie and Devonport received $100,000 each. If we add to that amount the $400,000 provided for sewerage, it can be seen that local government has benefited by almost $lm in the financial assistance received from the Australian Government. The councils are appreciative of this type of support because they received nothing from previous governments. It is a recognition of the work they do. 
I refer to a couple of letters which have been received from councils. One of the letters states: 
Council is very pleased with such continued assistance by the Australian Government and would be grateful if you would convey to  Senator Douglas  McClelland the Special Minister of State this Council 's appreciation. 
Another council on the north-west coast in a letter states: 
The Council places on record its appreciation of the assistance given by the Australian Government by way of the abovementioned Grants Commission Grant, which will materially assist in maintaining a reasonable municipal rating structure within the Municipality for the ensuing financial year. 
The Council would like to express sincere thanks to you and members of the Government for the funds made available in the above respect. 
They are typical of other letters received. That shows that local municipalities welcome very much and are appreciative of the money they receive from the Grants Commission without strings attached. The grant is a recognition of the work being done throughout Australia by this third tier of government. 
Apart from this, local councils in my area have also benefited greatly from the Regional Employment Development scheme projects. I place on record my appreciation of the wonderful work done by the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in introducing the RED scheme and for taking such a wonderful, personal interest as he did in following the progress of the various schemes in the country districts especially. My electorate benefited by $4.6m under the scheme. We have seen very many worthwhile community projects which, in their way, are living monuments to Clyde Cameron. They would never have got off the ground but for the scheme which he introduced. I need only quote from a letter received from the 
Leven District of the Boy Scouts Association in which they state that they would like: ... to make known to you and the Australian Government that our particular project has been extremely successful both from the point of view of employment and at the same time contributing to the welfare of the young people in this Municipality, not only for the present generation but for generations to come. 
The committee of the Association goes on to point out that its project has put the district years ahead in its program of scouting and that good value for money has been realised in their project. The letter concludes: 
We feel the Regional Employment Development Scheme can be successful in a two-fold manner. Firstly, it allows organisations, particularly those such as ourselves who are voluntary, to improve their position in the community without reliance on the Local Council or leaving them with a maintenance bill for years, and secondly it certainly helps the unemployment position in the local area. 
In the past year the Australian Government has financially assisted many other organisations in the electorate of Braddon. 
I recall grants of $145,000 under the Aged Persons Homes Act for 4 projects at Smithton and Ulverstone; $8,200 for environment and conservation; $253,000 for community health and school dental services; $206,000 for tourism and recreation grants; $100,000 for child care centre grants; $12,000 towards the Australian Assistance Plan for salaries; and $91,000 for road safety improvements. The Budget provides for an estimated expenditure this financial year of $542,000 towards the estimated cost of $2.5m for the first stage of a 7 kilometre dual carriageway and bypass at Ulverstone, including a new bridge over the Leven River. It also provides for an expenditure of $795,000 this financial year for the new dual carriageway between Victoria Bridge, over the Mersey River at Devonport, and the Don township. The route bypasses the commercial centre of Devonport. 
Tasmania benefits greatly from the transport policies initiated by the Australian Government. On 1 July this year the Australian Government took over the control of the State railways. The immediate advantage to Tasmania will be a net financial benefit to the State's revenue account of $5m. In addition, Tasmania will receive an adjustment of $3.3m in its financial assistance base which represents a permanent and increased budget gain to the State. Tasmania will be relieved of capital debts standing against the railways. as agreed between the Australian Government and the State Government. The State will also be relieved of railways operating losses which are estimated to be $ 1 4m for the last financial year. In addition to the financial assistance of the transfer, the Australian Government is committed to a program of railway upgrading aimed at improving the standard of the Tasmanian railways. 
The Budget makes provision for the establishment of 28 new regional legal aid offices this financial year. I know that the hundreds of people who have benefited from the advice given by this service Will certainly view with concern the POliCy of the Liberal Party to abolish the service. A legal aid office was opened in the electorate of Burnie in May last year and the statistics that have been provided to me for the first 5 months of this year indicate what a valuable service is being provided. There were 862 personal interviews, 8 10 telephone advisings and assisted referrals to the private profession amounted to 229. The Burnie office caters not only for Burnie but for the whole of the north-west and west coast of Tasmania. I support the Budget. 
-No doubt the Minister for Northern Australia is aware of the dangers of exotic diseases being introduced into the livestock industries of northern Australia through the exodus of refugees from Timor with their personal effects. Is the Minister satisfied that every possible precaution is being taken to prevent the introduction of contagious disease and to eradicate it should an outbreak occur? 
-I am very pleased indeed to be able to enter this debate on the estimates for the Department of Transport because it gives me an opportunity to join with the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in saying how much I appreciate what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is doing in the field of transport for Tasmania. I need only refer to the granting of the $2m subsidy- it is now $2.4m- from the end of September last year. I express the appreciation particularly of the people of King Island who were recently faced with some problems with air transport services between King Island and Victoria. After the erosion of the Friendship service operated by Ansett Airlines of Australia the Minister readily made available  Mr Peter  Langford, the Acting Regional Director (Air Group) VictoriaTasmania Region, Department of Transport, and arranged for him to go with me last week to King Island. From 2 p.m. until 6.45 p.m. last Friday we continually interviewed cross-sections of the community- mining interests, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Chamber of Commerce, the Junior Chamber of Commerce and various other people who said what they thought should be done with the air transport services between King Island and the mainland. We met the council that evening. 
The Minister will be visiting King Island next week. He is going down there on Thursday. He now has the expressions of opinion of the people and the council- the elected representatives. He will meet the council next Thursday night at 8. 1 5 and will discuss their problem with them. I appreciate this and the King Islanders appreciate it because it shows the very intense interest that the Minister has for the problems not only of the bigger areas but also of isolated communities. He will stay on King Island. On Friday week he will have a look at the physical setup of the port facilities at Grassy. He will be the guest of the Marine Board and will discuss shipping problems affecting the island. We know of course that the shipping services are conducted by the Transport Commission in Tasmania, but there could be references to King Island in the Nimmo report, and it is important that the Minister should see the physical setup and be aware of the reliance of King Island on shipping services, and discuss this with the Marine Board. The Minister recognises the situation. I join with the Minister for Services and Property in an expression of appreciation for what he is doing, in particular for people in an isolated area like King Island. 
I turn now to roads assistance for Tasmania. If time permits I will speak about air and sea transport for the island. For the 3 years 1974-75 to 1976-77 the Australian Government will grant to Tasmania a total of $54m for roads, comprising $23m for national roads and $3 lm for roads grants. This includes an additional $1.5m allocated to Tasmania after the $30m increase in the 1974-75 road grants to the States at last February's Premiers Conference. It does not include Tasmania's portion of the extra $64m from the Budget which, based on a pro rata allocation, will provide an additional $1.2m for national highways and $1.8m for roads grants. The total roads assistance to Tasmania represents a significant increase of 54.1 per cent over the $37m which Tasmania received for the last 3 years of the 1969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. 
A comparison is often made between the allocations to rural roads under the 1969 Act and under the 1974 Roads Grants Act. I point out to honourable members and I draw to the attention of the Minister for Public Works in Tasmania that such a comparison is not valid, as the basis of categorisation of roads has changed. Former class 3 inter-connecting roads have been transferred from the 'rural roads other than arterial roads' category of the 1969 Act to the 'rural arterial road' category of the 1974 Act. Some roads which were previously rural arterial under the 1969 Act are now declared national highways or export roads. In Tasmania the declared national highway is the HobartLauncestonBurnie road link along the routes of the Midland and Bass Highways, excluding the urban area of Launceston. The declared export road is the road link from Launceston to Bell Bay along the route of the East Tamar Highway. 
The only satisfactory comparison that can be made between allocations under the 1969 and 1974 Acts is the division of funds going to urban and rural areas. For the 3 years up until 1976-77 rural areas in Tasmania will receive the benefit of an average of 76 per cent of the total roads assistance to the State. This is compared with 56 per cent for the last 3 years of the 1969 Act. I hope that local municipal councils also will realise that the average has increased from 56 per cent for the last 3 years of the 1 969 Act to 76 per cent for the 3 years from 1976-77. The Aus.tralian Government has decided also to finance fully the construction and maintanance of national highways, export roads and major commercial roads. Most of these roads were formerly rural arterial roads, for which a significant proportion of funds had to be found by the States. Over recent years the Tasmanian Government contributed about 63 per cent of the funds spent on rural arterial roads, including those roads now declared as national highways. I point out that in 1973-74 a total of $2.7m was spent on roads now declared national highways. 
The Australian Government is providing $5.77m, $6.6m and $9.4m for the total cost of these roads in the financial years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77 respectively. It is estimated that the Australian Government's total financing of these roads wa save the Tasmanian Government some $3.6m in 1974-75, the financial year just completed, for spending on any other road that it considers needs financing. That is a significant contribution made by the Australian Government to the State of Tasmania when we consider that the Tasmanian Government has been saved an expenditure of $3.6m which it can spend anywhere it considers necessary. I point out also that that very sizable saving- $3.6m in 1974- 75- will grow in the financial years 1975- 76 and 1976-77. 
I turn now to the National Roads Act. The Bass Highway between Launceston and Burnie was declared the national highway in northern Tasmania. In 1974-75, the financial year just concluded, the Minister for Transport approved of major construction works between Deloraine and Latrobe. Last financial year the estimated expenditure was no small figure; it amounted to $ 1.004m. The construction of a new dual carriageway between Devonport and the Don was started. The estimated expenditure on that project is $700,000. Stage A of development into Burnie was approved also and last year the estimated expenditure was $ 1 . 1 56m. 
In this financial year, 1975-76, the Minister has approved of the following projects which are included in the Budget expenditure which we are debating this afternoon. He has provided for and approved of the continuation of the reconstruction work between Deloraine and Latrobe which this financial year will involve an estimated expenditure of $ 1.277m. He has approved also of the continuation of the 5.7 kilometer dual carriageway between Devonport and the Don which, this financial year, is estimated to involve an expenditure of $795,000. Approximately half of this project has recently been opened to traffic to provide partial relief to the commercial centre. We appreciate this very much indeed. Construction is progressing on the remaining section. 
We will see also this financial year the commencement of a 7 kilometer dual carriageway bypass of Ulverstone which Will include a new bridge over the Leven River. The expenditure this financial year provided in this Budget is $542,000. The Minister has approved also the continuation of stage A of development into Burnie with an estimated expenditure this financial year of not less than $ 1 .28m. 
I would have liked to have dealt with the sea and air transport matters affecting Tasmania, but the time is not available to me to do so. I simply say that the Minister is doing a very worthwhile job. We commend him for his interest in the State of Tasmania. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Tourism and Recreation aware of criticism, directed against the processing of applications for grants for tourism and recreational projects, which was made in a television news session in northern Tasmania last week? In fairness to the applicants and to the local government and State government officers who are responsible for processing the applications in the first instance, will the Minister clarify the position and outline the procedures that are followed in all cases. 
Can the Prime Minister give the House any information about the latest movements in the consumer price index? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether he is aware of the grave concern throughout Australia that because of the actions of the Liberal and National Country Parties in refusing to pass the Budget meat exports from this country could cease because money from the Appropriation Bills will not be available to pay the salaries of meat inspection services which are essential for the export of all meat from Australia. I ask the Minister: As meat exports are vital to the economy of towns and industries as well as for employment purposes throughout Australia, is there any way in which the Government can guarantee the salaries of meat inspectors and veterinary services? 
-Can the Minister for Transport give me any information concerning the decision of William Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd not to proceed with the importation of the vessel  Wanaka?  Can the Minister give me an assurance that sufficient tonnage will be available to service the Bass Strait container trade which is so important to the economy of Tasmania? 
