-May I firstly add my own warmest congratulations and good wishes to the  Speaker  of this House on his receiving a knighthood and on his election to the Chair of the House. I also congratulate the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees on his election to those positions. My predecessor who represented the division of Herbert was one Robert Noel Bonnett, more familiarly known as the Duke, Dukie or Duko. I guess also that he had the reputation of having the biggest nose in the business, but let me add that it was a very canny nose because he was in fact a most effective member of this House and representative of his people. Duke Bonnett is a man of strong character and good humour. He has a manner that enables him to mix easily with all people in all places. He is a man of considerable ability and he has been a ceaseless worker for his people in the electorate of Herbert. At the same time, I believe he has made a significant contribution to the workings of this House. He can look back with quiet pride on the 1 1 years he spent in this place, and we all I am sure, would want to wish the Duke and his wife Esme all the very best in their new life here in Canberra. 
I am very glad to succeed the Duke in representing the people of Herbert. It is part of a great and big country up there and its people are equal to it in spirit and in enterprise. My own division starts at the southern boundary of the city of Townsville and stretches north to just south of the town of Innisfail. It lies east of the coastal ranges of north Queensland and, therefore, stretches by road some 150 miles in length and some 50 miles in width. Townsville is my home city. It is of course the biggest centre in the electorate, having an urban population of about 100,000. It is the tenth largest city in the Commonwealth of Australia. To the north of Townsville, within my electorate, lie the towns of Ingham, Tully, South Johnstone and Mourilyan. 
I thank the people of Herbert for electing me to this House. I look forward to my term of serving them and also this Parliament. Northern Australia, which I regard as being that part of Australia lying north of the Tropic of Capricorn, comprises almost 40 per cent of the total area of this continent, including Tasmania. That 40 per cent is occupied by only some 600,000 people. That is barely 5 per cent of the population of Australia. We have 5 per cent of the population occupying some 40 per cent of the area. Many of these 5 per cent therefore live a long way from each other. Townsville is further away by far from Darwin than it is from Brisbane. All of the people of northern Australia live a long way from the capital cities of the south. Townsville itself is some 900 miles by road from Brisbane or, if we have to talk in metric terms, about 1,500 kilometres by road from Brisbane. No wonder many northern Australians often feel a sense of isolation and a sense of distance from the rest of Australia. 
The problems of distance and isolation intrude into many areas of life in northern Australia. Significant cost burdens are borne by the people living there. For example, it is costly to make a trunk line telephone call. It is costly to travel towards the south. After all, we in north Queensland enjoy the beaches of the Gold Coast as much as much as anybody else does but it is much more costly for us to get there than it is for somebody to get there from Brisbane or Sydney. 
Then there is the freight cost burden which afflicts many of us in our everyday life. Motor cars, pharmaceuticals, spare parts, much of our food and clothing, many of our housing materials, steel and heavy equipment- I could go on with the list- all have to be freighted very long distances and of course we have to pay the cost. What is even more inequitable and unjust is that on many items where sales tax is calculated on the final retail price we are paying sales tax on the freight component of that price. We have long complained about that. Our complaints appear to have fallen on deaf ears, and we wonder whether it is a qualification to be Treasurer that one must be a little deaf. Honourable members may rest assured that we will continue to complain about this injustice until there is some redress. 
The cost burden of living in the north is by no means the only or the most significant result of our distance and isolation. No doubt we as people of Australia have the same needs and aspirations as people in the rest of Australia but at the same time there is a significant regional aspect to those needs. For example, if I were to discuss the need for the establishment of the proposed medical school at the James Cook University I could make out a strong argument for proceeding with that school on regional grounds alone. Honourable members hear about the prospect of a glut of doctors in the south. We cannot get sufficient doctors in the north. It seems that they prefer to be unemployed in the south than to go and find employment in the north. Many professions and businesses can give examples of the same problem. We just cannot attract sufficient skilled and professional people for the needs of the north. Again it seems that they would rather stay unemployed in the south than be employed in the north. The experience of many is that the only way we will get sufficient numbers is to train them in our own institutions. That is why we need a medical school at the James Cook University in north Queensland. 
I could give many other examples of the peculiar regional needs of northern Australia. For example, along the cyclone belts of the east and west, cyclone-resistant measures must be built into our housing. That is costly and it is time consuming. There are also particular circumstances to be met or considered when building roads or providing sewerage or drainage. The suddenness and severity of the wet season has its own individual effect on those things. 
Unemployment in some of the northern sugar towns has a particular and unusual regional aspect. The modernisation of sugar mills and mechanical harvesting have resulted in shorter working seasons with the result that during the slack, inactive period, large numbers of people in these towns are just sitting around unemployed. There is a need for assistance in developing initiatives which will take up some of the unemployment in northern sugar towns. Reafforestation schemes may be one answer. Such a scheme, which is known as the Herbert-Tully River reafforestation project, has been proposed and is carefully documented. It is worthy of consideration. 
There is yet another aspect of the problems of distance and isolation which may be the most important of all. It relates to the culture and society of northern Australia. With some justification, the north is regarded as the 'Deep North'. 
We northerners are often considered to be culturally backward and socially unsophisticated. Of course, my speech of the last 8 minutes proves otherwise. Nevertheless, we are distant from the cultural centres of the nation. Many of us are not exposed to the latest plays, the latest shows, the latest acquisitions of museums and art galleries, the latest restaurants and the latest buildings. Most of us who like opera see little of it. The Queensland Symphony Orchestra and some Australian Broadcasting Commission artists do tour the north, but not very often and they do not tour a great deal of it. Much of the north still does not have the benefit of those tours. Indeed, the north does not even receive the ABC's second radio network, which means, unfortunately, that my constituents cannot hear this speech at this very moment. 
I thank honourable members for their sympathy and compassion. I turn now to the Address of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral in order to give examples of how decisions should be influenced by a consideration of northern needs. The Governor-General stated that part of the Government's strategy will be to assist small business. Legislation is to be introduced to enable the Commonwealth Development Bank to extend its lending activities relating to small business. That may be very useful, but as far as north Queensland is concerned it may not be enough. There are far greater problems facing us. Quite obviously, the freight cost problem is one of them. Another, of course, is the cost of telephone calls. But probably the most significant problem of all facing small business in northern Australia is the sheer cost of establishing that business or enterprisethe sheer cost of moving personnel, goods, equipment and the wherewithal there. It may well be that if governments want to encourage growth and decentralisation in the north they will have to provide special incentives to business to establish and operate there. 
In his Address  His Excellency  went on to say that legislation is to be introduced to provide further annual grants for the improvement, among other things, of roads and water resources. I am certainly pleased to see that the Government is taking steps to have the water resources supply program implemented at an early date. That program will have to be worked out co-operatively between the Commonwealth and State governments. I hope that in Queensland 's case the State and Federal governments will see some of the particular needs facing some areas of north Queensland. Well over 100,000 people rely on the water supply of the city of Townsville, which is in my electorate. Stage 2 of the construction of the main dam, the Ross River dam, must be completed soon but that will be good enough for only another eight years or so. The cost to the people of Townsville of completing Stage 2 is really quite excessive. It is in excess of $ 10m. Already the Townsville City Council faces a substantial financial burden in relation to the funding of Stage 1 of that dam, which is still quite new. The Council is in need of substantial help for the completion of Stage 2. More than that, because the supply will be sufficient only for another eight years or so, governments, both State and Federal, must already be looking forward to the future- to the needs and requirements of the late 1 980s. 
Let us not forget that northern rivers, while they carry a lot of water in the wet, are dry in the dry season. We need dams, and we need them badly. We need them more than people in the south recognise. The fact that we have a lot of rainfall does not mean that we have a lot of water. 
Governments also will have to bear in mind that many of our coastal rivers along the wet belt of North Queensland are short rivers and when in flood they flow very swiftly to the sea. That is the geography of the region, and that reflects the suddeness and the severity of the wet season. I am talking of rivers such as the Herbert, the Tully, the South Johnstone, the Pioneer or the rivers further north or even further south. The swift and savage flooding of these rivers can do and does do significant river bank damage. Again, much more than is readily recognised by people in the south, there is a very great need for river bank improvements to protect those short swift rivers from the ravages of wet season floods. 
Whilst talking on the subject of water, it would be remiss of me not to make reference to the Burdekin Dam scheme. Honourable members would be disappointed if I did not make reference to the Burdekin Dam scheme. I do make reference to that scheme very seriously indeed. The agricultural, industrial, electricity generation, flood mitigation and water supply benefits of the scheme to a very large area of northern Australia have been very well documented. I believe that State and Federal governments have a responsibility to move positively and without delay towards the construction of the Burdekin Dam. 
So far as roads are concerned, again in the wet belt areas of north Australia there are particular requirements which are not mirrored elsewhere in the Commonwealth. In that high rainfall area even the best of sealed roads can and do deteriorate rapidly. I understand that the problem has to do with seepage under the road surface and that has to do with the very wet subsoil conditions that exist during the wet season. There is a need for far better road construction methods in the north- a need which governments will have to recognise as they allocate funding for northern roads. 
It is noted that the Government is to study closely the report of the current committee of inquiry into land and housing costs. Home owners in northern Australia are disadvantaged on many counts. One is, as I have already mentioned, that some of us live in a cyclone belt. That means that we have to have cyclone resistant measures built into our houses at additional cost. The second problem is that many of our housing materials have to be freighted to the north, which adds to the costs. The third problem is that the premiums for insuring houses in the cyclone areas of northern Australia are far more costly than the premiums that are payable on insurance policies in the south. These are quite significant cost factors that simply are not sufficiently recognised by governments. These are the sorts of things that have to be borne in mind by governments when any relevant legislation is to be introduced or when any policies are to be determined. 

 His Excellency also said that he was concerned about the quality of education in Australia. The northern part of Australia has only one universitythe James Cook University of North Queensland in Townsville. That university at least serves the whole of northern Queensland, if not the whole of northern Australia. Yet, that university- that one small university- has not even reached the stage where it exists on one campus. It has two departments still living out a less than suitable existence in sub-standard and outmoded buildings on an earlier college campus quite a long distance away from the main campus. A relatively modest sum would solve that problem. The only university serving the whole of northern Queensland should at least be completely sited on its own campus. Also I regret the delay in the construction of the teaching hospital attached to the James Cook University of north Queensland. I have already alluded to the significant regional aspects of that situation. I make a further comment. It seems to me that there is considerable value for the whole country in ensuring that Townsville 's rapid development and increasing sophistication are maintained. That is important from the point of view both of decentralisation and the provision of support and services to a large part of northern Australia. The completion of James Cook University and the establishment of the medical school would go a long way towards that. 
I could talk about many other significant regional aspects and I could go on referring to the Governor-General's Speech. I could refer to coastal surveillance. We in northern Australia are far closer than the main population of Australia to the problems of our vast and isolated coastlines. We feel the need for protection, we need protection, and we hope that this Government will not stint or delay long in providing that protection. 
We need strong support for the arts. The Government said in the Governor-General's Speech that it would give strong support to the arts, but let us hope that that strong support is not concentrated in the populous areas of the south. Let us hope that some of that strong support finds its way to the north, whether by tours, by more telecasting, or by whatever means possible. Let us hope that some of that strong support finds its way to the whole of northern Australia. 
I have been dealing with northern Australia as a whole. No doubt within northern Australia as a whole and southern Australia as a whole there are much smaller regional areas of regional need. But painting with a broad brush, I believe that there are the significant cost factors, regional needs, cultural and social factors to which I have referred, affecting the whole of northern Australia. I should make it clear, of course, that we in the north do not complain about life in the north. Indeed, we rather like it, just as many southerners like it when they come north during our magnificent winter weather. We are not inferior and we do not feel inferior about living in the north, but we do point out that southerners need us up there. Southerners must recognise that living in the north does create its own particular set of circumstances which ought to be recognised, which must be recognised and which must be taken into account by governments as they make decisions. I see one of my tasks in this Parliament as being to maintain a constant reminder of the needs, the aspirations and the hopes of the north as this Parliament carries out its business. 
-Of course, I am much attracted to what the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  has just said about intergenerational equity. In fact, I was so attracted to that concept that I feel obliged to speak about it. Whilst I agree with him on many of those points, I am rather attracted to talk about something about which the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  spoke a little while ago when he told a story about a tax problem facing some of his constituents. In my hard conservative heart I feel some sympathy for them. I must say that his speech was refreshing after all the dreary speeches we heard from the Opposition during the Address-in-Reply debate. They ranged from failed election rhetoric to the unproven aspirations of the socialists' dream. Nevertheless, in this case the honourable member, for Bonython has a point. Of course, he should remember that the present Government is the only government in the history of this country to have taken bold initiatives in the whole area of income tax reform. So it is not too much to expect that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  might feel constrained also to look at the problem of wages before taxes, as espoused by the honourable member. 
I am also pleased, as he was that the Treasurer is in the House because I shall refer to the Treasurer another tax problem which currently is rearing its rather ugly head in many areas of north Queensland. Indeed, it has ramifications for all of the more remote areas of Australia. At the present time the Taxation Office is carrying out certain investigations. Investigators are operating at the moment throughout the northern part of my electorate, looking at the rental value of dwellings provided for employees at little or no rental. This problem is not new. But there will be a considerable lift in the values placed on those sorts of dwellings for income tax purposes. No doubt the valuers are just doing their job- I do not criticise them for that- but I suggest that the guidelines laid down for establishing rental value need to be considered and reformed, because they are not operating fairly. 
Honourable members might know that in the more remote areas of Australia- in the northern part of Australia- it is much more difficult to attract people to work in those environments than it is in the city areas. It is also a fact that the proportion of housing provided for employees is higher in those environments than it is in the built-up metropolitan areas. Many people are in this situation when they live in the country. Housing is provided for many of them at little or no rental. It is one of the incentives provided for them to live there, and so to contribute to the economy and the health and wealth of this nation. It seems to me that where the valuers are going wrong is that under present guidelines they are not entitled to take into account certain factors that ought to be taken into account. 
The first factor is that rental values in country areas are not the same as those in some of the city areas. For example, the rental values in Ingham or Tully are not the same as those in Townsville. That should be taken into account, and it is not sufficiently taken into account. Secondly, little account is taken of the fact that many of the people for whom housing is provided have to entertain in those houses. In other words, the houses are an extension of their business operations on behalf of their company or employer. That should be taken into account. Thirdly, some of these houses are not in the same condition as houses in city areas. The houses provided by the mills in Tully or Ingham do not have the same luxuries, comforts and features as the houses in which honourable members from metropolitan areas live. Fourthly, those houses are very close to the work of the people concerned. They are virtually right next door. That means that these people are on 24-hour call. It means that they really cannot escape from their work environment. It means that they are virtually living at work all the time, and that must have a depreciating effect on the rental value. It seems to me that, as part of its continuing income tax reform efforts, this Government would do well to look at the methods of assessing the true rental value of dwellings provided for employees. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of recent Press reports indicating that shortly he will be visiting Japan? If so, can he confirm the accuracy or otherwise of those reports? 
-In speaking tonight to the discussion paper before the House, I shall work on two bases. 
The first is that some form of compulsory health insurance is desirable and necessary. That form of compulsory health insurance makes sure that everybody is covered. Before the introduction of Medibank some small percentage of the population was not covered, and it is desirable that those people be covered. If they are not prepared to cover themselves, some form of compulsory health insurance is necessary. I suppose it also ensures that there will be some residue of finance available to support other parts of the scheme. 
The second base on which I work is that some system of private or additional voluntary insurance should be available. There is no evidence available that I have seen and certainly none in the discussion paper that there are significant savings to  be  demonstrated by doing away with private insurance. So some system of private insurance should continue. At the same time this keeps open an avenue for nongovernment employment of personnel. It also keeps open an avenue for choice and the ability to obtain some better, further or wider coverage, if a person wants to pay for it. 
Earlier in this debate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said that to outlay 7.5 per cent of the Budget on health is not to outlay too much. He went on to indicate that he was not terribly concerned about that. What he did not apparently address himself to today was the fact that there has been a very rapid escalation leading to this level in recent times and that if that escalation is not contained in some way and contained quickly all of us will be in for a troubled time. He does not seem to be concerned either about overseas experiences, yet the discussion paper clearly points out the way in which, to take two examples, in Britain and in Canada, there have had to be changes and ceilings put on this business of government assisting in the medical care area. 
To my mind, the paper points out that we must act quickly to contain some of the costs which seem to be almost out of control or which, if they are not yet out of control, are certainly giving every indication of being out of control in a very short period. For the benefit of the honourable member for Prospect let me quote from page 85 of the discussion paper, which refers to the Californian experience and which states: 
Unless a social instrument other than Government evolves and functions adequately in the public interest, it seems inevitable that Governments (Commonwealth and State) must act to satisfy taxpayers that their $ 1 ,700m annual subsidy of recognised (public) hospitals can be fully justified. Similar controls might be considered for private hospitals, unless all subsidies are withdrawn. 
The case for being concerned about the level of health costs is clearly demonstrated. The suggestion by the honourable member for Prospect that there can be no real concern about a 7.5 per cent take from the Budget is to my mind quite unreal. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  made almost the same point. I refer him to a comment he made in March 1975 when he was the Federal Minister for Health. He said: 
My objection to providing the best possible care for all is simply that no economy, no regime, no health administration could stand it, nor can the great bulk of doctors and patients. 
That was the honourable member for Capricornia. So obviously there have to be controls, there have to be checks and we have to do something about them now. 
 I can understand the concern of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  a similar concern was expressed by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)-  about the need for more reliable statistics on national health care generally. While he may be able to make out a case for that, still he does not answer the immediate problem this House has to face and that is the problem of rapidly escalating health care cost to the Government and people of Australia. It is a problem that we must grasp and about which we must do something immediately. Unless we do, the whole thing will get out of control completely or more out of control than it is at the moment. 
The honourable member for Batman referred to the need for reliable statistics and he seemed to suggest that that was a marvellous argument for making sure that we had complete Medibank coverage and no private insurance at all. I must say that the logic of that argument escapes me. If we want statistics in certain areas we can get those statistics. It is simply a matter of ensuring that the methods and the forms for obtaining them are set up. I cannot see the logic of saying that they must be collected on a Medibank basis only. It is simply a matter of the Department of Health and the other people concerned being geared to accept and collect statistics in certain forms. I feel that the honourable member's introduction of that argument really detracts from the matter about which we are talking tonight, that is, the discussion paper on the business of health care in this community. 
I would like to express my concern about limiting hospital expenditure. This area is discussed fairly widely in the paper. One of the more important areas when we talk about limiting hospital expenditure concerns bed availability throughout the community. In this regard I would refer the House to page 79 of the discussion paper. It mentions the effect of the availability of hospital beds and goes on to point out that a comparatively generous supply of beds is associated with high expenditure. A table is then shown. If we leave Queesnland aside for a moment because it has some special circumstances, it is clear that the State with the lowest bed /population ratio, Victoria, has the lowest health costs in the hospital scheme. It is significantly lower. So it is quite clear that bed availability is one of those important areas at which we should look when it comes to the question of limiting hospital costs. 
As I said, that is the picture leaving Queensland aside. Taking Queensland into account, the figure for annual gross operating cost per head of population for that State is even lower than the figure for Victoria. But Queensland has even more beds per 1,000 head of population than Victoria. Indeed it has as many as anywhere else in the whole Commonwealth. 
The paper makes the important, but I think probably somewhat overlooked or not sufficiently discussed, point that Queensland has this low cost because it has comparatively few private patients in its public hospitals, it pays its hospital specialists on a salaried basis for sessions worked and it has a centralised firm control over staff establishments and the purchase of supplies. It seems to me that this point hints at a certain area in which further study, more so perhaps in the long term, can be undertaken beneficially. Of course Queensland has had a form of free hospital system for many, many years. Many people have made quite derogatory statements about its system, suggesting that it was somewhat backward compared with other States. I do not think there are any mortality or morbidity statistics to prove the point. The fact is that Queensland had its own system of free hospitalisation for many years and hand in hand with that it had this centralised firm control to which the discussion paper referred- a control that takes considerable interest in staff/patient ratios, equipment levels and overall management. 
I know from experience that in Queensland, Hospital Boards are quick to whinge and complain about the restraints placed upon them by the Queensland Health Department. The fact remains that those controls exist and from that we can see that in Queensland there is a lower annual gross operating cost per head of population in the hospital system. 
It follows from that that we can draw two areas for further discussion, areas about which we can profitably do something with regard to health costs. The first area concerns the controls that can be undertaken in relation to staff ratios, management, equipment levels, standards and the rest. That is not to say that the Commonwealth will take over those controls. It cannot do that in the States. But at least the Commonwealth can be aware of the possibility of those sorts of controls, and being aware of that it can then more adequately assess the level of subsidy and assistance that ought to be given to hospital schemes throughout the country. It is not a case of going for the lowest common denominator but it is a case of studying in the long term the controls, efficiencies and benefits that can be obtained from a closer watch on the whole area of hospital administration. The second area- I have already referred to the table which shows the bed supply effect- is that the availability of finance from the Commonwealth level can be worked out on perhaps a lower bed/population ratio than might exist in some of the States at present. 
I suppose we can go further, as the discussion paper suggests, and propose an even cruder method of going about it, and that is to start by simply imposing flat ceilings and be done with it. It would seem to me that that is altogether too crude and even if it is done as a matter of expediency it does not take away from the fact that profitable areas for further attention and consideration concern the strict application of controls within the hospital systems and, secondly, the availability of funding on a lower bed/population basis. 
The Commonwealth's part in funding hospitals has to take account of federalism. It is not a question of the Commonwealth imposing its controls on the State schemes but rather taking account of all the evidence available in the country and making a decision as to the level of funding available to the States. What the States do from there I suppose is a matter about which they will be concerned. 
In the short time left to me I would like to refer briefly to the doctor/patient cost side of health care. The honourable member for Capricornia when he spoke earlier today found that the gap proposal, that is the difference between a Medibank benefit and the cost of attending a doctor to be met by the patient, was somewhat abhorrent. But it seems to me that he could offer no alternative method of controlling some patients in seeking care and controlling some doctors in providing it. It should also be borne in mind that m the overall scheme of things a gap method does not necessarily mean that too much of the cost will fall on those people who can least afford it, because the fact is that the compulsory levy rises as incomes rise. I would go further and align myself with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  who said earlier today that that ceiling might have to rise even further than it is at the moment or indeed it may have to be abolished. If that happens those people who can afford to pay more will be paying more of the overall cost of health care in this community. 
Getting back just to the simple gap proposal, it seems to me that it is certainly not unfair or unreasonable at all. Of course, the more that the higher income earner provides in the overall scheme of things towards the total cost of health insurance, the greater the possibility of keeping that gap as small as possible. I have no time to develop some of the methods that could be used in keeping the doctor/patient cost of health care down. I have referred to the gap situation. It may well be that we should end bulk billing, abolish the levy ceiling and so on. 
This matter comes down to a concluding message. During this speech I have expressed concern about adequate checks, balances and controls both on the hospital side and the doctors'/patient side. The whole community has to recognise that medical care is not some higher form of activity beyond and above checks and controls. The community, the medical profession and the hospital system must recognise and accept that fact. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether the Government has received full co-operation from the State Premiers in the implementation of Stage 2 of the Government's tax sharing proposals? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. Is the right honourable gentleman yet able to give the House any information as to the outcome of the Prime Minister's discussions with  President  Carter's special trade representative,  Mr Strauss,  concerning the prospects of the United States importing more beef? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Is Australia's trade with the five members of the Association of South East Asian Nations growing? Is the volume of that trade significant and is the balance of that trade in Australia's favour? 
-In the time allotted for my speech this evening I intend to address myself to the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services. I wish to talk, firstly, about two small matters that appear in the estimates- small in terms of expenditure but important in community terms- and then to move on to a third point. The first of the small matters has to do with the flags, recordings and royal portraits for which provision has been made. I notice that last year $16,300 was appropriated for these items, although it does not appear to have been spent. This year a considerably larger sum- $50,000- has been appropriated. There seem to have been some delays in making available the recordings of the national anthem and the national song and I trust that those delays will be overcome shortly. In general, I support and commend the making available of flags, recordings and royal portraits. 
In saying that, I am not being jingoistic. I suggest in all seriousness that those small provisions from the Commonwealth offer one small opportunity to enable our young people to develop an affection for our nation and its institutions. Indeed, I suggest that the Government can do more here. There is a need to foster in young people a reasonable understanding of the Constitution and the institutions of the country. In later life this might lead to a proper and necessary regard and concern for the nation and its institutions, particularly the institution of parliament. In my opinion there is too little regard held in the broad community at large for this Parliament. By many it is regarded as a plaything of politicians of doubtful worth, and its importance as the constitutional, democratic instrument of the people themselves is not well enough understood. I believe that the Government would do well to consider ways of informing the people better about this institution and assisting young people to appreciate the necessity for it. 
The second small point to which I referred is the projected appropriation of funds for the bicentenary celebrations. I notice that this year a sum of $41,000 has been set aside for that purpose. I simply draw attention to it as I believe that it is important for the community at large to have its attention drawn to the fact that our bicentenary celebrations will be upon us soon, in fact in 1988. 1 am pleased that funds have been made available and that plans are in hand to begin the important celebrations. I point out to the community at large that no doubt it will take the full eight to ten years to plan properly fitting celebrations for the bi-centenary of this country. 
The third point that I draw from the estimates is a rather more substantial point in money terms, and that is the expenditure planned on rent for various government departments. This is a very large item of expenditure. In fact, some $60m is being appropriated just for this item. I would like to offer a suggestion as to how we might change the way in which we are spending that rent money to the betterment of the Commonwealth as a whole. To do that it will be useful for me to describe the situation I know best. That is the situation in the city of Townsville which is the base of my electorate. This will give an excellent example of how we can slightly change the direction of this rent to the betterment of the community and the good of the Commonwealth. Townsville is the tenth city of the nation. Outside the six metropolitan areas and the larger cities which are relatively close to those metropolitan areas it can be justly said that Townsville is the largest decentralised centre in Australia. Indeed, its population these days is something like 100,000. Townsville itself encompasses a wide range of activities. It has copper and nickel refining; a railhead and a port; a meat works; growing and widespread light industry and commercial interests; and large defence establishments. It offers significant tertiary education services in the form of the university, technical and further education and a college of advanced education. 
In addition to that both the State and Commonwealth governments recognise Townsville as an administrative centre not just for the city itself but also for the whole of northern Queensland, which it services. From the Commonwealth's point of view virtually the whole range of Commonwealth services are housed there, including the Australian Taxation Office for the whole of north Queensland, the Commonwealth Employment Service and an office of the Department of Social Security. So one could go through the whole range of Commonwealth activities which are included there. The accommodation which is offered to Commonwealth public servants in Townsville is inadequate to say the least. There is one main building which is now quite old, beyond real modernisation and outdated. There are also a number of war-time buildings; that is what they are and how best they can be described. As for the rest of the accommodation, the premises are rented, no doubt at considerable expense. 
The Commonwealth has a plan for its own building in the future. It owns land near the centre of the city in a very good position indeed. There is a need for a new office block to house Commonwealth public servants because of the scattered and largely inadequate nature of the rental accommodation presently offered. At the same time, bearing in mind the decentralised nature of the city, there would be a contribution to the local economy if some sort of building activity for Commonwealth public servants were embarked upon. But of course as far as capital expenditure is concerned we recognise the constraints of the moment. The suggestion that I would offer is this: Bearing in mind that the Commonwealth owns the land there, is it not possible for the Commonwealth to call tenders for the erection by private enterprise of a building on that land under the terms of a building lease with provisions for a sub-lease back to the Commonwealth over the appropriate length of time, say, 20 years? This sort of arrangement can be made by government and statutory authorities. It has been done in the city of Townsville itself. 
A number of advantages flow from this sort of activity. In the first place, from the Commonwealth's point of view there would not be a need for capital expenditure at this point. Secondly, the sub-lease back arrangement can offer the Commonwealth the right of acquisition at the end of the lease or at some time within the period of the lease. The advantage of that is that when funds become available the Commonwealth could buy in the future at present values. A third advantage, of course, is that that sort of arrangement would permit the immediate injection of building funds- capital funds- into the city of Townsville. As I say, that is an example of what could happen in other places. A fourth advantage is fairly obvious, of course, and that is that it would enable the Commonwealth, which uses Townsville as a very large administrative centre in its operations in north Queensland, to offer adequate and proper accommodation to all those employees of government who work in the city of Townsville. This sort of arrangement, I would suggest, has significant and important possibilities. As I say, I use the city of Townsville as an example of how widely it can be adopted no doubt in other areas. I would commend that suggestion for the serious consideration of the Government. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Representations, relates to the disruptive effect of European Economic Community policies on international trade. As a result of pressure from Australia and other countries, especially in the current multilateral trade negotiations in Geneva, is the EEC yet showing any sign of moderating the effect of its policies? In his answer will the Minister make particular reference to the sugar industry? 
-The ownership of inventions, trade marks and designs creates important monopoly rights which are recognised by and large throughout the whole of the industrialised world. These two measures which we are discussing this afternoon are a further step to impress upon the community the benefits which can be obtained from exercising property rights. 
So far as the Patents Amendment Bill is concerned, there is considerable economic value for Australia in its patents system. It is an instrument for encouraging Australian inventions and for assisting the adoption of technological developments by Australian industry. To understand what the amendments which we are discussing this afternoon are all about it will be useful to spend a few moments to consider the law about patents. 
Generally speaking, if one wants to patent an invention one first lodges an application; and if one is an Australian inventor one usually lodges with that application a provisional specification, not a complete specification. Once that application is lodged it is required that the complete specification be lodged within 12 months of that date. So one has 12 months between the time one first applies for a patent and the time one has to put in the complete specification. 
Once that happens the invention is not open for public inspection until 18 months after the lodgment of the complete specification so that in the normal course of events- and this frequently happens- from the time an application for a patent is lodged to the time when it is available for public inspection a period of 2V4 years can elapse. Once a patent is granted, of course, for 16 years the inventor who has taken out the patent has the protection that the patents law gives him. That protection gives him the exclusive right to work his invention and the right to prohibit unauthorised use of it. 
In the main this amendment seeks to bring forward the date of publication. As I have said, at present the date of publication is not until 18 months after the date of lodgment of the full specification. The change is to make publication 18 months after the first priority date that one gets through the patents system, which is in effect the date that one lodges the application, so that instead of a period of  Vh  years going by before notice of the invention can be made public it will be a period of 18 months, thus shortening that publication period by 12 months. 
That has some important ramifications. In the first place, it means that industry will know sooner than at present what it can do and what it cannot do so far as using inventions and so on is concerned. Perhaps more importantly it means that there is earlier availability of information about inventions, about technological change and so on, so that businesses which are planning innovation and planning forward will be assisted in knowing what is going on in the invention area. The availability of information at an earlier point in time is a very important part of this amendment. Thirdly, the amendment increases the effectiveness of the patents system by reducing the period within which a claim for damages for infringement can be made because damages can apply only after the publication date and not for any period before that date. The reduction of the publication date by 12 months means generally that patent rights which are not effective until publication become available to the inventor at that earlier point. That is a third important ramification of this Bill. The amendments are worth while and very desirable; and I commend them to the House. 
So far as the Trade Marks Amendment Bill is concerned, what happens with the trade mark is that registration of it gives the person registering it the right to exclusive use of the trade mark and the right to obtain relief if there is an infringement in the use of that mark. Of course, trade marks traditionally in this country have related to goods and this amendment offers the same protection and the same right of relief to persons who will register what we might call service marks- trade marks in respect of services. The services affected, of course, are extensive and I can give some examples of the sorts of services which could and may well use the new trade mark rights in respect of services. 
These include the advertising business generally, insurance companies, finance houses and the construction and repair industry. Communications is another important area where a certain design relating to the service may be prepared and can be registered. The transportation and storage industries and the material treatment industries, such as flour milling, bookbinding and metal plating, and the persons who run those industries will be able to devise a service mark identifying their particular business and have it registered as a trade mark. Other examples are education, entertainment and all sorts of miscellaneous services which are available in the community, including the accommodation industry, hire services, beauty salons and computer services. Some examples of the sorts of marks which might be registerable are the rather famous stylised letter 'A' which Ansett Airlines of Australia uses and the certain logos or identifying marks which consultants and others are already adopting as part of their letterheads. These may well be the sorts of things which can be registered and which can give a ready identification of services offered by a firm, to the trading benefit of that firm and to the ultimate benefit of the consumer. 
Generally under these amendments the marks which are registered as service marks will gain protection throughout Australia and Norfolk Island, although I understand that there are some cases where the rights of protection and of obtaining relief will be limited to some geographical areas. For example, if somebody in my home city of Townsville has a service which is similar to a service in Perth and there is no real likelihood of either of those services competing anywhere, it is possible that similar marks can be registered in respect of those services. But apart from that sort of thing, generally speaking registration will give protection Australia-wide. I have already indicated that these sorts of mark, I believe, will become a valuable business asset and that proprietors will be able to use them as ready identification of the services that they offer. That ready identification in turn should result in consumers more readily being able to know the services that they want; and that is very important. 
So far as the law is concerned, if somebody has a particular logo or service mark the right to obtain relief at present gives him no real protection at all. At common law if a person wants to take an action against a competing firm the only way he can get relief is if that business is passing off its services as the services of his business. But apart from that there is no real protection or relief and this legislation does a mighty service to the community by providing that greater degree of protection and at the same time, as I have said, by providing a ready identification of the services which are being offered. 
It is important that these two amendments, which are important, as has been conceded on both sides of the House, should be seen as part of the wider work of the Government in the whole area of productivity, in the whole area of making Australian industry and business generally more productive, more competitive and internationally competitive. All of this sort of work is being carried on by this Government. It has been suggested in the debate this afternoon that these measures which the Government is undertaking represent something of patchwork action and that the Government really has not gone very far beyond the industrial property area, some research and development and export incentives. The Government has gone further than that. No doubt we would all like to see the Government go still further, but the Government, particularly through the Department of Productivity and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  is working on a much wider range of measures which are designed to increase the national and international competitiveness and productivity of Australian industry. 
As a first point to arise from that, I make reference to the industry studies that have been undertaken and are continuing by the Department of Productivity through the office of" the Minister. Officers of the Department along with management and along with trade union representatives- in other words, these are tripartite studies- have been conducting direct and detailed studies on many industries. They are examining such aspects as cost structures and all those sorts of matters that have a bearing on competitiveness, productivity and cost efficiency. The first of these studies occurred in the forging industry and there has been widespread publication of the results of that study given to the community. Particular attention is currently being given in the program to technological research and the finding of export markets. Another series of industries now being studied is the footwear, clothing and textile industries where again the Department through the tripartite studies is looking at them from the point of view of their future competitiveness and productivity. So the Government, as I say, is doing far more than perhaps has been conceded by the preceding  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 
Let me consider for a moment some of the other measures that are being handled through the Minister for Productivity. These are measures that this Government has recognised are part and parcel of an important program for an industry policy. As we know from the Budget, the Government has expanded its support for industrial research and development. The Budget this year provides an increase from $14m to $24m in that area. In this program there are three broad types of grants. One is for original research and development. The second type of grant is to enable technology transfer to small business by way of commencement grants to enable small business to take up and to commence using innovative measures. The third is assistance for projects which are deemed to be in the public interest and which cannot be financed by industry. It is very gratifying indeed to see the increased commitment in this Budget in support for industrial research and development. 
There is of course the Patents Information Service that the Minister has established. That service has been extended considerably. It will work in conjunction with the Information Technology Council- another of the instruments which have been established through the office of the Minister. All in all, these two establishments are designed to make the community and manufacturing industry in particular better aware of technology- that technology which is available already in this community and available for adaptation so as to improve productivity. 
Reference has already been made, of course, to the Industrial Property Advisory Committee which will continue the sort of work that these amendments are the result of and we can foreshadow, I am sure, that there will be considerable further advice coming from that Committee which will result in further changes in the whole area of industrial property for the betterment of the competitiveness and the productivity of Australian industry. 
I look further now at the sorts of industry programs being undertaken through the office of the Minister. There is the National Materials Handling Bureau which has been doing some remarkably good work in relation to packaging. In fact, I understand that the Bureau has devised a packaging system which it calls Modpack which will lead to more uniformity and better utilisation of packaging faculties. That is the sort of thing which is vitally important in a country such as Australia which requires goods to be packaged for distribution over long distances and for sale. There is an iron and steel productivity program. Under this program a series of study groups has been established. One of the groups has been considering the rationalisation of steel connections. Again that is very important. It might sound small on its own but it is a very important piece of work to be done when one considers the different sizes and sorts of materials used in connections in the iron and steel industry. That program has led to another significant piece of work through the Department of Productivity, and that is the technology transfer program. I referred earlier to the need to permit the transfer of technology from one section of industry to another and perhaps from large industry to smaller industry and from big business to small business so that all business, including small business, can take advantage of the latest technological developments. 
At this point I commend the Government for the support it has given to the development of  InterScan  because this is not unrelated to what we are talking about here, that is, offering assistance where it is needed in the development of Australian industry.  InterScan,  as we know, is a microwave landing system which was invented by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and which now looks as though it has been adopted internationally. The Government, as we know from previous announcements, has given considerable support to the development and marketing of this invention. 
Another piece of work which has now commenced through the office of the Minister is an attempt- and this is a most important item- to try to rationalise the veritable maze of policies, practices and regulations which govern industry throughout the country. There are State laws; there are local government laws; there are Commonwealth laws; and there are different laws throughout the whole of the country. If there is an industry which is trying to service the whole of the country, this of course is an impediment to high productivity and an impediment to effectiveness and efficiency. So, the Minister's Department together with similar departments throughout the whole of the country is trying to find ways of rationalising this maze of laws, simplify them and bring about rather more uniformity. That is a program which again is most important and for which I would commend the Government. 
It is worth noting particularly that in relation to the Government's concern for a productive and an efficient manufacturing industry in this country, the Government has considered its policy on employee participation. Again there is no need for me to go into that in any great detail this afternoon. It has been well talked about but it is another example of how the Government is more and more pursuing a wide ranging approach to the myriad of problems that beset efficient industry in this country. 
In the short time left to me to speak I should finally mention that the Government is certainly not inactive in the area of technological and computerised change. It has been suggested in many quarters that the Government has been left behind in some respect in this new technology situation, the sort of computer holocaust type of situation which has been described recently in a national newspaper. 
Indeed the Government is not inactive in that area. The Government is concerned to ensure that Australia has high levels of employment in the future. With that, it recognises that there is a need to use new technology, to create new industries and to reap the benefits which can flow from specialisation and diversification. Australia recognises that it needs new technology. This Government is doing nothing to shy away from that: This Government is concerned to assist that. There is already considerable contact and work being done with industry and with unions to implement and to take advantage of technological change which is available in the community. 
-To return some relevance to the debate at hand I shall address myself in the few minutes available to me tonight to a discussion of the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. It is interesting to look at the overall expenditure figures for the Department of the Capital Territory provided in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2). The administrative expenditure provided under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) totals $80m. The capital expenditure provided by Appropriation Bill ( No. 2) is nearly $172m, bringing proposed total expenditure for the forthcoming financial year through the Department of the Capital Territory to $252m with which to look after a community of about 230,000 people. It is interesting to compare Canberra with a city such as Townsville which has a population of about 90,000 peoplethey are in the city itself- and a total budget expenditure of about $30m, taking into account loan fund allocations of $8m for the current financial year. This simple comparison alone suggests that Canberra is a favoured city. 
Some allowances have to be made for Canberra's position. The Department of the Capital Territory undertakes what could be called State functions- functions which in other Australian States are undertaken by the States and not the local authorities. Therefore, the Department of the Capital Territory becomes involved in such things as the fire brigade, roads, police and education which, in the States, are State functions. We also have to allow for the fact that Canberra is the capital city of the whole nation and as the national capital there are distinctive national capital features which have to be paid for and which are worth paying for. For example, there is a high percentage of open space which helps to beautify what is indeed a lovely city. In Canberra's buildings, and in the government buildings in particular, a particular standard is sought which enhances the national capital aspect of the city and which is worth paying for. 
That is true. I repeat that for those 230,000-odd people who live here this is something of a favoured place. For example, we heard this week that per capita education spending in Canberra is something like 32 per cent above the national average. That gives this place something of a favoured aspect. 
-That is regrettable. The fact that this is a favoured city can be drawn from the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. Look at what is provided to cover the estimated loss on running the Canberra bus service in this financial year. An amount of $7m is the estimated loss at which the bus service will run in this favoured city. If that were translated to household rates- this is only my rough calculation; no doubt it would be possible to make a more accurate calculation than this- I estimate that it would add something like $100 a year to the rates of each householder in this city. It is no use telling me that the bus service has a peculiarly national capital aspect to it, because essentially it is used by the people who live here as is the case with public transport in any other city in the nation. Again I concede the national capital aspect of Canberra. This city has a fine road system and vast open spaces; so it requires servicing perhaps over and above the average. But I would like the people of this city to bear in mind that this is something of a favoured city. 
I return once more to consider parks and open spaces. They have to be maintained by gardeners, mowers, et cetera. In the Estimates this year something like $5m is provided for this expenditure- $5 m to look after parks and gardens. I repeat once more that to a large degree that can be well and truly justified by bearing in mind that this is the national capital. But those people who live here should not forget that they certainly live in a somewhat favoured environment, just having regard to the amount of money spent on them. Again if one were to go through a bit of simple arithmetic and work out how much more rates would be if all that expenditure were added to the rates paid by the people of this city, it would be seen to be a very substantial sum. I wonder whether the people of this city would like to contribute to it. 
I said before that we have to make allowances in the amount of money spent on this city for the fact that it undertakes what we might call Statetype functions. Lease payments are made by the people of this city- the sort of lease rental payments that would go to a State government if the property were in a State. The freehold equivalent would be paid out to some extent in land tax. The people of Canberra certainly pay their rent, as it were, as people in the States do. They pay rates these days. But I point out that income from Canberra rates and rents in this financial year is estimated to amount to something like $50m, and that income is to service expenditure that is far in excess of the figure. 
So where does all this get us? It seems to me that it is useful from the point of view of both Canberra itself and the Australian community at large to draw some general conclusions from those figures. The first is that the people of Canberra should accept and recognise that they live in a somewhat favoured city. They tend to have the best of facilities and the best of advantages. The second thing that has to be pointed out from the point of view of the rest of the country is that Canberra is the national capital and as such it is. worth making sure that Canberra looks good, to put it in rather simplistic terms. It is worth making sure that its open spaces are beautiful, that its buildings are of a consistently high standard and that its planning is the best possible to make sure that all the visitors who come to this place- let us not forget that this is virtually the greatest single tourist attraction in Australia- get value for money. The rest of the community must recognise that it is worth spending additional money on keeping this place beautiful as the national capital. 
The third conclusion that ought to be drawn from all this is that the rest of the community is entitled to be certain that Australia is getting value for money. When one sees the provision being made for the loss on the bus service$7m the amount of money provided to look after open spaces and in sheer money terms the amount of money being spent on a community in which 230,000 people live, it is worth asking ourselves seriously whether we are getting value for money. So far as those people who live here are concerned the answer is easy; but so far as the people who live elsewhere in Australia are concerned the answer is not so easy. The Government has an obligation to monitor what is happening here and to make sure that value for money is being given for the good of the whole of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Productivity and derives from a concern that may be an incomplete understanding in the community about the positive impact of industrial research and development. Can the Minister advise what steps he has taken to publicise the new industrial research and development grants? What impact is new technology developed and adopted as a result of industrial research and development likely to have on employment? 
-The House has already been told what the first two brackets of amendments to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1978 are all about. In my contribution this afternoon I do not propose to traverse what has already been well covered. It is also well understood by honourable members on both sides of the House that the amendments foreshadowed this afternoon by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will be discussed more fully in the Committee stage. Thus I do not propose to deal with those matters either. This afternoon I would like to spend a little time in the consideration of the consumer protection part of these amendments. 
In order to understand these amendments and in order to understand the reasons for them, it will probably be useful if we spend a short time just considering the legal position as it presently applies. At the present time there are two ways in which a consumer who suffers damage for one reason or another through the supply of goods can sue. He can sue in tort. He can sue in contract. 
A tort is described very briefly as a civil wrong. When it comes down to the sort of situation with which we are dealing, basically a tort occurs when there has been negligence on the part of some person. A manufacturer owes a duty to the ultimate consumers of his product to ensure that that product is safe and fit. If he breaches that duty unreasonably he is guilty of negligence and he can be sued in tort. That situation applies between the ultimate consumer and the manufacturer or the importer, as the case may be. It also applies, of course, between the consumer and the retailer. 
But when we talk about contract, the situation is significantly different, because contract is bound by what is called the doctrine of privity of contract, which provides that only parties to a contract can be sued. In the case of a consumer who buys goods from a retailer, that consumer has only one contract, namely, a contract with the retailer. He has no contract with the manufacturer or with the importer. Thus, if the consumer wants to sue in contract for the goods being unfit for the purpose for which they were bought, for example, he can sue only the retailer; he cannot sue, as the law presently stands, the manufacturer. 
This leaves the consumer in a doubtful position. It is said that he can sue the retailer. That is well and good. But what happens if some little time after the transaction the retailer becomes insolvent? What happens if the retailer disappears, does a moonlight flit? In either case the consumer still cannot sue the manufacturer in contract. If the retailer has become insolvent or has disappeared, that is the end of the consumer's remedy. He really cannot in contract sue anyone to recover his damages. 
It is possible to sue the manufacturer by means of a rather cumbersome procedure. That procedure involves suing the retailer, first of all, and then the retailer in turn, hopefully, joining the manufacturer as a further party to the action. But that situation still depends on the retailer's being solvent and being in a position where they can get at him. It is a somewhat cumbersome procedure and certainly adds to the cost of litigation. 
We can probably illustrate all of that if we take a set of facts, which are rather similar, to a case which was actually fought out in the courts of this land some decades ago. Let us consider the situation of some underwear being manufactured and in the course of manufacture, by some negligence or by some defect in the manufacturing process, an excess amount of sulphides being left in the underwear. The result of that is to cause dermatitis to the wearer. As the law presently stands, in contract, the person who buys the underwear can sue only the retailer who sold it to him. On the other hand, in tort, because the manufacturer was negligent in the manufacturing process in allowing this excess amount of sulphides to remain in the underwear, the consumer can sue the manufacturer of that underwear. 
Unfortunately there are some shortcomings in that also. In the first place, the person suing has to establish negligence. That may or may not be easy, but he certainly has to establish that there was a failure on the part of the manufacturer to take reasonable care in the manufacture of that product. He has to prove that failure to take reasonable care, that negligence. Secondly, it is uncertain whether in tort he can actually recover the value of the goods. After all, underwear is pretty expensive stuff. Hence we have these amendments before the House. In effect the amendments are designed to make the manufacturer liable in contract as though the manufacturer were a party to the contract, in certain cases. It is a situation which does not apply at the present time, but as I pointed out, it is necessary because -of the way that the law presently stands. At the same time, these amendments will ensure that the manufacturer or the importer cannot limit his obligations by contracting out of the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. Furthermore, the amendments make sure that the manufacturer cannot limit the extent of his warranties. 
Turning to the basic provisions of this bit of consumer protection, which have been referred to already by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in the first place where goods are bought by a consumer for a particular purpose and it turns out that the goods are not fit for that purpose and as a result the consumer suffers loss or damage, the consumer will be able to sue the manufacturer. Where the consumer has acquired goods by description in a trade magazine or something of that sort and the goods when supplied do not correspond with the description, again a right of action will exist. A third situation is where the goods are not of a merchantable quality- where there is some inherent defect in the goods- and, again, where the consumer suffers loss or damage, a right of action will accrue. A fourth situation is where the goods are supplied to a consumer by reference to a sample and again, where the bulk of the goods do not correspond to the sample, thereby causing loss to the consumer, the consumer will have a right of action. Another right of action will accrue where a manufacturer is unreasonably unable to provide facilities for repairs to or parts of goods. That is provided under the proposed new section 74f, which is a fairly long section. 
It is important also to note that the Bill makes sure that where a corporation manufacturer fails to comply with an express warranty, again the consumer will be able to sue. That is important because it is a really doubtful area in the law as it presently stands. As I have said before, there has to be privity of contract before parties can sue under contract. All those warranties given out blithely by manufacturers may be difficult to enforce as the law presently stands. However, under this proposed new section it is ensured that the manufacturer can be sued in accordance with the terms of his express warranty. 
As has been referred to by the honourable member for Adelaide, there will be a right on the part of the seller, if he is sued and has to pay up, to recover from the manufacturer or importer in circumstances where the consumer could have sued that manufacturer or importer in the first place. Those are in essence the consumer protection elements of this amending legislation. 
The Government- any government of the day, no doubt, but certainly this Governmentacknowledges that it does have a responsibility in consumer affairs. At the same time, I draw attention to a statement made by the Minister, as reported in the  Advertising Review  for August this year: 
The Government places high priority on encouraging a climate in which business can compete on an efficient basis to the ultimate benefit of the community and is particularly concerned to ensure that its regulatory activities do not add unnecessarily to the costs of industry. 
I repeat some of those words because they are important: 
The Government ... is particularly concerned to ensure that its regulatory activities do not add unnecessarily to the costs of industry. ' 
The Minister acknowledged that he was conscious of the need to find the right balance between excessive government involvement in business matters and the protection of the rights of the consumers. It is worth noting that, as part of government responsibility in consumer affairs, the Government is concerned that the Act ought to be reviewed as necessary from time to time. The honourable member for Adelaide has acknowledged that amendments are necessary as circumstances change. So the Government has established the Trade Practices Consultative Committee, the purpose of which is to advise the 
Minister on the practical operation of the Act and on whether it is having any unintended effect in the market place. 
That Committee is charged specifically to give special attention to the problems of small businesses and to keep the Government well informed on how the Act is assisting them. The Minister is reported in the August edition of the  Advertising Review  to have said: 
The Government believes that a viable small business sector is the backbone of our economy and the continued vitality of small business is essential for the maintenance of a soundly based and balanced economy in Australia. 
A further step in which the Government is involved stems from a concern to ensure that the Government receives the best advice possible on consumer affairs issues. It is for this reason that the National Consumer Affairs Advisory Council was established. A further area of constant consideration is in gaining co-operation with the States on consumer affairs matters because, as honourable members will be aware, the States have fairly significant legislation in the area of consumer affairs. 
All that is well and good and as it should be, but we do have to be concerned about the problems of over-regulation, to which the Minister referred in the comments which I have quoted. In that regard I draw the attention of the House to the comments of Emeritus Professor Roland Thorp, in an address given in his capacity as  Chairman  of the Australian Consumers Association to the Third Annual Convention of the Australian Retailers Association in Sydney in September last year. Professor Thorp said: 
We do not ever want legislation for the sake of it and I think consumerism is already running close to over legislation. 
That, coming from a person involved in the Australian Consumers Association, is worth repeating: 
We do not ever want legislation for the sake of it and I think consumerism is already running close to over legislation. 
No doubt the difficulty always will be establishing the balance to which the Minister referred in the comments I alluded to earlier. But let us consider for a moment the dangers of excessive regulatory legislation. In the first place, the danger is that this sort of legislation will increasingly place impossible standards on manufacturers, on businessmen, on people in the supply section of the community. After all, in the law of tort, to which I referred earlier, negligence arises where there has been a failure to take reasonable care. Yet the sort of legislation that we are contemplating today could be said to go perhaps slightly further than that and to impose a much more perfect standard- a higher standard- on the manufacturer. As I have said, for the reasons outlined earlier, that is well and good, but there is a danger in regulatory legislation creating too high a standard, a standard with which it becomes unreasonable to expect anybody to be able to comply. That has to be watched constantly. 
A second problem is that regulatory legislation involves cost, which ultimately is passed on to the consumer. For example, if we are going to impose higher standards on business requiring it to produce goods of the highest possible standard, the manufacturing process has to be watched extremely carefully. That can undoubtedly add to the cost of the process. More than that, if higher standards are imposed, by regulation, on business and industry, public risk insurance premiums, for example, will increase. They are two examples of the way in which imposing too high a set of standards will involve cost which has to be passed on to the consumer. Then one has to ask: Is the cost worth it? Is the community really getting value for money in imposing those higher standards? There is a very real danger that the community is not. 
Probably an even more important aspect than the two points that I have just mentioned concerns what we might call the carrot and the stick situation. It is very easy to bring down regulatory legislation which, in effect, forces manufacturers and business to do something; but surely, as a matter of principle, it is better to try the carrot approach, better to try to encourage business, to encourage manufacturers, to be aware of their standards, of their responsibilities to educate consumers so that they in turn will know what they want and what to look for; to encourage them as much as possible, to improve their own standards, and how well their manufacturing processes work. It is better to try to encourage business and manufacturers generally to undertake themselves a consistent search for ways in which to provide the best possible deal for the consumer, better for themselves and for the country generally. 
So in all of this area it is useful if we can bear in mind the need to avoid the stick approach through regulatory legislation and consider whether the carrot approach, the encouragement of proper research and proper standards of care, is the better approach. I would suggest that it is. 
I end by quoting from the second reading speech of the Minister, whose remarks reinforce the comments I have just made. The Minister said: 
The Government is determined, however, that trade and commerce in this country will not be hindered by overregulation. 
I am not, of course, in a position to foreshadow what further changes in the Trade Practices legislation might be brought down. The honourable member for Adelaide is concerned about its being watered down but, in turn, could I just suggest to him that when further amending legislation is brought down its purpose should be to ensure that trade and commerce in this country will not be hindered by over-regulation. 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to recent answers to questions in the House about European Economic Community subsidised sugar exports and Australia's reaction to them. What is the basis for the recent complaint by Australia to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which concerns that practice of subsidised exports of sugar by the EEC? 
-In one respect I find myself in broad agreement with some of the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  because I too would like to see rather more money being spent on Australia's roads. However, in other respects the honourable member for Shortland does not seem to have conceded a couple of the difficulties that bear down on this otherwise most admirable aim. One such difficulty which we must bear in mind is that the fuel excise or fuel tax component in the price of petrol traditionally, as I understand it, has been regarded as a general revenue measure. It is not enough just to say that because we are taking more money by way of tax we should spend more money directly in favour of the motorist. It is a revenue measure and, therefore, has to be seen in the context of the Budget as a whole. The honourable member for 
Shortland then went on to say that, insofar as the Budget as a whole is concerned, the priorities of the Government are obviously out of kilter. 
The best he could do to prove that contention was to make reference to the VIP fleet, to a couple of new limousines and to some modifications at the Lodge. It seems to me that that is hardly enough proof of that contention. Indeed, in making that contention the honourable member did not concede the national aspects of or requirement for some of the expenditure which he seems to dislike. It is not only the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has need of a couple of new VIP aircraft. This is a need of the head of the nation. There is a need for the head of the nation to move about in this way not only within Australia but also around the world. It does not matter who is the incumbent of that office or from which party he comes; there is a need for the head of the Government to be able to move about this country and the world in the degree of safety that is required. I suggest that the honourable member for Shortland has allowed himself to stray a little from the point of the increase in fuel prices. The point is that it is part and parcel of the overall Budget revenue and it has to be balanced against the total Budget package and not thought of just in the context of using some of it for building better roads. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  explained the purpose of the Bill when he introduced it. The Bill in effect is a relatively simple one. It provides an alteration to the level of funding set down in the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977. The increase in funding provided by the amendment is to honour the intention to maintain spending on roads in real terms. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, the increase was almost seven per cent over the last financial year. I think the precise figure was 6.95 per cent. Therefore, I do not quite know how the honourable member for Shortland formed the view that there has been a decrease in real levels. This Bill honours the promise to provide an increase in real terms this year of almost seven per cent, based on a forecast of price movements in this current financial year. 
I would like to spend a little time in this debate in discussing the national roads part of this Bill and the funding for it provided by the Bill. In some respects it seems that the national roads part is not given adequate priority and in other respects it seems that some of the criteria used in allocating funds for national roads across the country are not thought of widely enough. In order to talk about those couple of aspects of national roads it may by useful if I refer firstly to a report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in 1973 in which the concept of the national highway and national roads system was fairly well enunciated. The Bureau had earlier reported in February 1972 to the then Minister that it was difficult for State governments to assemble the large resources necessary to construct long distances of main roads between major centres. The Bureau also reported in 1972 that those linking roads, if we like to call them that were inadequate and that the then current policies were not likely to increase the rate of improvement of those roads which was desirable in the national interest. Consequently, it recommended that immediate consideration be given to the provision of financial assistance for those main arterial roads which join major centres and which should form the nucleus of a national highways system. 
The declared national highways system today comprises the major links between the major capital cities, the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory, and the highways between Brisbane and Cairns and between Hoban and Burnie. In the 1972 report, the Bureau stated: 
Whilst the Commonwealth has an interest in all roads some main arterial roads are of more concern to the Commonwealth, because of their importance to Australia as a whole. It is concluded that the roads of most concern, which might be called a National Roads System, are the roads which: 
encourage and contribute to a major extent, to trade and commerce . . . 
assist industry located in major centres of population . . . 
reduce, significantly, transport costs of the products and rural and/or secondary industry, between points of production and points of export or consumption; 
provide for long distance movement associated with recreation and tourism; and which 
improve movement between defence production centres, defence supply and storage locations, and defence establishments generally. 
It is interesting to note that in that 1972 report there is reference to recreation and tourism. That is a point to which I shall return a little later. In that report we see the development of the concept of the national road system and the need for it. As I say, I am wholly in favour of that. In some respects it seems to me that perhaps that concept is still not given adequate weight. It seems to me that there may well be a greater need to divert a better share of money to the national road system than is currently given. Why is that? Let us take up a couple of points referred to in the report I mentioned and talk about tourism for a moment. 
We had tabled in Parliament a fortnight ago the final report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. That contains a very important chapter on the road element in tourism. If we as a nation are going to take tourism and the benefits of tourism seriously, then perhaps we should take much more account of the aspect of tourism when considering the level of spending on the national road system. The report stated that road travel accounts for approximately 90 per cent of leisure travel within Australia. The provisions of roads to cater adequately for this traffic is therefore of special importance to the development of tourism in Australia. The Australian Automobile Association suggested that a major requirement for increased domestic tourism is a ready access to the many undoubted tourist attractions this country has to offer. In particular there is a need for vastly upgraded and safer all weather road communications. Of course, it is well known, as the honourable member for Shortland has pointed out, that the AAA predictably is not at all happy with what has been happening with our road system. One can understand that. It gave evidence to the Committee as follows: 
The existing road system cannot adequately meet the needs of tourism. 
It cannot do so because of a number of factors, which include the poor standard of some road surfaces, inadequate distance and directional sign posting, the high cost of wear and tear on vehicles and the motorists' own poor opinion of the road system. They are all factors limiting the growth of motor tourism in Australia. 
We are well aware of the financial benefits to the economy of the movement of people throughout Australia and the movement of people coming to Australia from overseas. The national highways system is obviously a very important part- perhaps overall the most significant part- of the provision of adequate roads for tourists. In particular, we can think in terms of the eastern highway. The belt of development from Cairns in the north to Adelaide in the south is a distance of some 2,500 miles. It contains the great part of Australia's population- probably something like 90 per cent of it. Five of the seven capital cities are within that belt. Nine of the ten major provincial cities are located within that same belt. When we think of those nine or ten major provincial cities it is interesting to note the place that Queensland plays. Of those nine or ten major provincial cities, five or six are in the State of Queensland. Starting from the north we have cities like Cairns, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton, Bundaberg and Maryboroughall large cities stretched out along a very large part of that 2,500-mile belt. In terms of tourism, of course, it is interesting to note the access that is provided to a wide range of tourist attractions along the Queensland part of the belt. It is an access that starts with the southern part of the Great Barrier Reef, off Gladstone, and stretches all the way north to Torres Strait. 
It has been suggested that the progressive development of the national highway system undoubtedly would assist with the development of tourism. For a moment, therefore, I mention in particular the Bruce Highway- the Queensland part of that 2,500-mile belt to which I referred earlier- which feeds and services a great number of tourist attractions in Australia. The Bruce Highway is one of the less well developed major roads in Australia and it is still underdeveloped, even considering those large towns which I mentioned and which it services. It is a stretch of road which in many places is too narrow. It is a stretch of road which is subject to flooding, particularly in some of the northern parts where we have a severe and short wet season. It is a stretch of road with a vast number of narrow, single lane bridges to be crossed. It is a stretch of road which has a wide variety of surface conditions. In some parts it is a stretch of road which requires particular consideration in relation to construction. For example, in north Queensland the suddenness and severity of the wet season are such that there is a problem caused by high seepage of water from surrounding terrain- water seeping in under roads and thus causing a high degree of foundational problems. It is a road on which we rely, nevertheless, to cater for tourism. Obviously the Bruce Highway is one part of the 2,500-mile national highway from Cairns to Adelaide which needs to be thought of more particularly from the tourist point of view and which perhaps deserves a better share of money than is determined by thinking of it simply in terms of the bare number of people served. 
A second point that came out in the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in February 1972 has reference to the decentralisation aspect. The next thing to bear in mind when thinking of the Bruce Highway in Queensland is that Queensland is indeed the most decentralised State. There is a national need to maintain that decentralisation, to maintain the development- the wide variety of development- that exists in Queensland, to make sure that the prosperity is fostered for the good of the nation as a whole. I have referred to the various cities that stretch along the Bruce Highway- Cairns, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton, Bundaberg and Maryborough. Inland there is Mount Isa- a very large city of almost 30,000 people. It is clear that Queensland is a very decentralised State. It is equally clear that, in order to maintain and foster the decentralisation and prosperity brought to the whole State, the road system must be good. It is clear that the road system, particularly the national road system, needs to be a good deal better than it is. It is the national road that is being relied upon. There is a wide diversification of industry in Queensland- primary, secondary and tertiary. There is a wide spread of commerce throughout the towns I have mentioned, making it a vigorous and prosperous State and contributing very much to the overall prosperity of the country. It is in the national interest to maintain, encourage and foster the type of decentralisation that exists in Queensland to ensure that the future is going to be better for the whole country, not only for Queensland. 
My final point is a reference to the criteria that might be used to determine just how much of national road funding will be diverted to the various parts of Australia. I say that because if the tourist point is taken seriously the Bruce 
Highway in particular should be getting a better share of road funding. If the needs of decentralisation are taken seriously, again the national road system, particularly in Queensland, must be thought about more seriously. If those points are to be taken seriously we must be concerned about the criteria. As best I can discover, the reigning criterion for working out the proportion of spending for roads is essentially population. It is understandable that where most people are, on the face of it, is where the most need is. I think we have to move away from so simplistic an approach. Proper consideration must be given to factors such as tourism and decentralisation. In addition, there needs to be a proper consideration of the difficulties and problems in various regional areas. When it comes to thinking in terms of a vast State like Queensland, account has to be taken of the cost of distance. Account also has to be taken of the cost of getting materials to places long distances from the supply of those materials, the cost caused by flooding and the cost caused by inadequate, narrow bridges. Some of the regional needs must be taken into account when it comes to construction. The need, as I have mentioned before, for roads to be made to stand up to the stresses and strains of a severe and short wet season. I use that as an example. 
Whilst all of us, of course, must support this Bill because of the added road funding that it provides for the continued development of the road system within Australia, nevertheless I make the point that while very admirably in 1972 a whole variety of points including tourism and decentralisation were referred to, it seems to me that in- determining the apportionment of funding, inadequate consideration is given to those sorts of factors. It would seem to me that on those considerations a case for a better proportion of funding, particularly in Queensland and along the Bruce Highway stretch of the national highway system, could easily be made out. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his statement today referred to the level of resources investment in Australia and the improved primary production outlook. I might add, for the benefit of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who has just spoken, that he did not claim the credit for that. Nevertheless, he pointed out the facts. Much of the resource investment and primary production in Australia occurs in northern Australia, that part of the continent that lies north of the Tropic of Capricorn. That part of Australia comprises 40 per cent of the land mass of Australia yet, at the time of the 1976 census, it had less than 6 per cent of the population of Australia. It is a vast, largely underpopulated mass of country. Yet it has rapidly become an area of immense economic significance for Australia. 
Let me dwell for a few moments on some of the things which are happening and which will happen in northern Australia. The mineral resources of the area are immense. Black coal comes from the Bowen Basin which is north of the Tropic of Capricorn in Queensland. Uranium is mined at Mary Kathleen in Queensland. Bauxite comes from Weipa in Queensland and Gove in the Northern Territory. Mt Isa in north-west Queensland is one of the world's biggest copper producers. Tennant Creek looks as though it will gear up again on copper. Lead, zinc and silver also are mined at Mt Isa. There is a very large nickel refinery near Townsville that takes nickel from Greenvale in northern Queensland. Iron ore comes from the vast resources of the Hamersley region in north-western Australia. These vast deposits are now being worked and are producing for the benefit of Australia Unmined deposits are even greater. There is still more black coal in northern Queensland. There is natural gas and oil in the North West Shelf in Western Australia. The oil shale in Queensland could one day prove to be of immense benefit. Vast deposits of uranium are yet to be explored and tapped in Queensland and the Northern Territory. There is phosphate rock. Aluminium, of course, will become a great growth industry for the benefit of all Australians. The bauxite will come largely from Queensland and Western Australia. Iron ore is still not by any means fully developed or even tapped. It will prove to be considerably more important in Western Australia as the years go by. 
I am not trying to load a speech such as this with statistics but Queensland ports in 1975-76 handled, in dollar value terms, just under 12 per cent of Australia's exports. Added to that, the export income generated by Western Australia in almost four years since 1975-76 from its enormous iron ore deposits obviously means that the value of exports from northern Australia is much greater than 12 per cent of Australia's processed total exports. That is the mineral side of the story. There is also the primary production side of the story which is extremely significant. Thirty-one per cent of beef production in Australia is carried out north of the Tropic of Capricorn. Nearly all of it is exported. Nearly three-quarters of Australia 's sugar is grown north of the Tropic of Capricorn in Queensland and 75 per cent to 78 per cent of Australia's sugar is exported. Australia's financial axis might well be the Sydney-Melbourne Une but, increasingly, greater economic importance is attaching to northern 
Australia. The Australian community and the Commonwealth Government must become more aware of that economic importance. They must become more aware of the wealth generated for the benefit of all Australians and the need for governments to ensure that the quickening pace of development is maintained and, if possible, hastened. 
Let us relate the growth in northern Australia to growth in numbers of people rather than minerals and primary production. I cite as an example my own city of Townsville. Over the past five to seven years that city has grown more rapidly than the growth centre of AlburyWodonga. That growth has occurred without massive financial assistance. Townsville now has a population of 105,000. It is the centre of a great decentralised part of Australia. Over time the Commonwealth Government has certainly taken initiatives of considerable benefit not just to northern Australia but to all the remote parts of Australia. It does us well to remember some of them. It seems easy to forget the fact that over the last few years there has been steady and very useful development of costly telecommunications servicing remote parts of Australia. In more recent years charges for telephone calls have been reduced significantly to the benefit of people living in remote parts of Australia, particularly northern Australia where the greatest distances have to be covered. The present Government has re-introduced the fuel price freight subsidy scheme which is working to the particular benefit of the vast empty areas of northern Australia. We have the expectation, the promise, that in the life of the present Parliament that scheme will be further implemented so as to subsidise completely the freight component in the retail price of petroleum products in remote parts of Australia. Bounties for phosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers continue under the present Government. These are of great assistance to the remoter primary production areas of the country. Northern Australia certainly benefits. 
The present Government has introduced the Primary Industry Bank of Australia and extended the lending charter of the Development Bank. A further initiative of the present Government, which some Labor spokesmen during the 1977 election campaign said would be abolished, is the Decentralisation Advisory Board and the loans available from that source. The worth of that program should not be underestimated. For example, I can foreshadow that there are three enterprises in Townsville which have benefited or wil shortly benefit from that scheme to the tune of just over $300,000 with the expectation that the additional funding for industry development will employ about 30 extra people initially with growth prospects beyond that and multiplier effects in the community generally. 
Given the economic importance to Australia of northern Australia we must recognise that mammoth problems remain. They are problems which the Government would do well to consider, not just for the benefit of northern Australia but for the benefit of all Australia. Transport is a continuing problem. Obviously long distances mean high freight costs. There may not be a great deal that can easily be done about that. If people live in those areas I suppose that they have to suffer some of the disadvantages. But the internal cost of air fares is a continuing canker. It is all very well to talk about reducing the cost of internal air fares for adding on to cheaper international air fares. What about giving some advantage to the longer haulage distances of normal domestic flights? We should forget about overseas flights and tourism. The reduction of transport costs is important to the continued economic development of the remote areas. 
Roads are a continuing problem. For example, the Hightway No. 1 in north Queensland is in parts little better than a goat track. This year again, because of floods, roads have been cut for days by creeks which have flooded. 
Even weeks. Something has to be done about those roads, not just because they are needed in a particular area but because they are a vital part of the communication and transport network of the nation. They are necessary for the continued economic development of an area which is becoming increasingly more significant to Australia. It is time for a fresh look at the whole situation. The Burdekin Dam is another project which the State Government has now proposed to the Commonwealth Government for development. It might be said that this project is parochial but that is not so. The Burdekin Dam will possibly be the biggest single water storage in Australia. As a result of building that water storage Australia will develop greatly. Most, if not all, of that additional development sparked off by that water resource would be for export purposes, as the rest of the developments of the north are for export purposes. 
The sugar industry bears some reference. Over the past 12 months we had the problem of trying to achieve a fair increase in the domestic retail price of sugar. That fair increase still has not been achieved. If the continuing confidence in and development of a string of towns along the north Queensland coast is to be maintained, it is urgent to give consideration to a fair and just domestic price increase for sugar. 
I believe that the Commonwealth Government must take more care and have more consideration of its profile in the area of northern Australia. Townsville perhaps has benefited more than most other areas in that regard because Townsville has become a significant regional centre for Commonwealth departments dealing with taxation, employment, social security and other responsibilities. Nevertheless the Commonwealth profile has to be seen throughout the whole of northern Australia in a demonstrable fashion. One such way for this of course has been the construction of the new Commonwealth building for public servants in Townsville which, as I have described to this House in another speech, could be done on a lease and leaseback arrangement. 
I return to one of the problems I mentioned earlier, that is, coastal surveillance of the north. I applaud the Government for the tremendous advances made in northern surveillance over the last 12 months. But we have a vast area of coastline there. It is a big country with too few people and there is much more yet that needs to be done in the area of northern surveillance. I shall continue to urge the Government to proceed with upgrading surveillance resources in the area with all possible speed. All that I have been talking about in relating the mammoth problems still remaining in northern Australia has not been on simplistic parochial lines; rather I have sought to highlight to this House the importance of the vast under-populated northern part of Australia to Australia as a whole. 
I have also sought to highlight that many of the initiatives of this Government have been extremely useful and beneficial indeed. I have sought to highlight that northern Australia 's continuing capacity to earn foreign exchange now depends on the health and livelihood of northern Australia, to the benefit of the whole of Australia. I have sought to highlight that the welfare of Australia as a whole and Australia's capacity to care for the social and welfare needs of her people increasingly will depend on the economic prosperity of northern Australia. Hence I make the point that there is a need for the Government perhaps to take a fresh look at northern Australia and, in view of its importance to the whole of Australia, to consider anew what further Government action is needed to promote its continued development. 
Has the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs seen reports in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  about certain administrative changes to the Special Youth Employment Training program? Can the Minister assure the House that the general effectiveness and availability of the program are not being reduced or rendered ineffective by any such changes? 
-The Patents Amendment Bill represents a further step taken by this Government in exercising its constitutional responsibility to provide efficient and effective patent laws for the protection of inventions in Australia. I make it clear at the outset that in this second reading debate it is not my intention to enter into a long analysis of the many individual details of this Bill. I understand that my friend, the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  will address himself to the Bill in more detail at a later stage. However, it is appropriate to emphasise that one of the most notable features of the Bill is the fact that basically it is directed at increasing the effectiveness of the Australian patent system for the users of the system. Those users are the inventors as the originators of technological development, Australian industry as the potential employer of such development and the members of the public themselves as the consumers and ultimate beneficiaries of those developments. 
It is inevitable that the patent system and, indeed, any aspect of industrial property will be looked at in a legislative context. This Bill appears to be formidable and it is quite lengthy. When the patent system is examined in its legislative context it appears to be esoteric and confusing and is something which the ordinary layman finds difficult to understand. In my view, that is a pity, because that legislative clothing tends to conceal the basic practical purpose behind the patent system. I stress that it does have a basic practical purpose. 
It is clear from the experience of countries, such as Japan, which have a very high usage of patent systems that the Australian patent system has the potential to play an increasingly important role in our future industrial development. Regrettably, the full extent of that role and the contribution which instrumentalities such as the Patent Office established by this Parliament can make to fulfilling it are only now beginning to be fully appreciated. 
One of the most notable recent developments of this growing role is the development of the Patent Office as a mechanism for transferring the technical information in patent documents to industry. As honourable members will appreciate, a basic feature of the patent system is the requirement that the patentee- that is the person applying for the grant of a patent monopolymust disclose sufficient information about the invention protected by the patent to enable it to be exploited once the patent term has expired. In fact, the information is available at a far earlier stage and obviously can be exploited under licence arrangements. In that context, I refer to the amendment to the Patent Act passed by Parliament last year in which, effectively, the publication date for patents was brought forward. Of course, that makes the information which is available in patent literature held by the Patent Office available more readily and at an earlier point in time. 
By virtue of the short term of a petty patent monopoly the petty patent system introduced in the present Bill will accelerate the availability to industry of the information contained in petty patent documents. Moreover, experience with the present patent system suggests that the new petty patent system, by providing a form of protection adapted to assist the commercial exploitation of simple, consumer orientated inventions, has considerable potential for increasing the information available to industry about inventions conceived in Australia. For many years, the number of patent applications made by Australian inventors has remained static at about 4,000 applications a year. Approximately 3,000 of those applications are abandoned without maturing into a patent and without the documents being published. If the petty patent system encourages those applicants to obtain a petty patent, the resulting publication associated with the grant of the petty patent will make considerably more information available to Australian industry. The fact that the information concerns developments originating in Australia can be expected to give such publication added significance to industry. 
The provision of technical information of a kind specifically intended for exploitation by industry is an integral feature of the patent system. Nevertheless, I believe that that information has not yet been sufficiently disseminated to industry or put to industrial use. As a result of the central role of the Patent Office in the operation of the patent system, the physical resources are available to make a greater contribution to these activities. In saying that, I have in mind the activities of many overseas patent offices in developing communication with their national industries and assisting those industries to extract and assess the information available in the patent offices. If we take into account the tremendous amount of information available worldwide, which incidentally is now increasing at the rate of approximately one million documents a year, and also the fact that most of that information concerns new technological advances developed by industry in the major industrialised countries, it is obvious that continued failure to exploit that information must have adverse effects on the future competitiveness of Australian industries. 
Many countries are already exploiting the information in both their own and foreign patent documents for the benefit of local industries. For example, let us consider the position in countries comparable to Australia. The Swedish patent office established an information centre as long ago as 1972 in response to the wishes of industry. Industry in Sweden now uses that centre to undertake approximately 3,000 searches a year. I will explain a little later what I mean by the word searches'. The Danish patent office in 1974 established a special service section to assist industry with searches of patent documents. Austria has made a major advance in making available information from patent documents by the establishment of an international patent documentation centre. An important example of international co-operation is that the Australian Patent Office contributes to the information made available by the Austrian centre and in turn makes the information from those services available to Australian industry. 
The large industrialised countries have well developed information services for industry. For example, Japan, which has a highly active patent system with over 300,000 applications lodged annually, has created the Japanese Patent Information Centre. In Europe, co-operation between a number of countries, including the Benelux countries, France, Italy and Switzerland, led to the establishment of the International Patent Institute. One of the major and continuing tasks of this Institute, which now forms part of the European Patent Office, is to provide search information for industry. The establishment by the present Government of the Australian Patent Information Service within the Patent Office is an important step in assisting industry to obtain useful information from patent documents. 
Australian industries, particularly the smaller industries which lack research facilities and have only limited financial resources for development, should be encouraged to make greater use of this service. However, it is important that industry be fully acquainted with the facilities provided by the service. Apropos of that, I recently had the pleasure as the representative of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr MacPhee),  of participating in a seminar organised by a major industry body, the Confederation of Australian Industry, in conjunction with the Patent Office. This seminar was aimed at improving industry's awareness of the facilities and the service of the Patent Office. Let me explain what is meant by a search procedure which can be requested as part of the Patent Office's service. It simply means that an industry or a person who wants information about an invention in a certain area or of a certain type can go to the Patent Office and request that a search be carried out in order to obtain the information required. 
Many difficulties are involved in transferring the information in patent documents to industry. 
It is obvious that the mere provision of information will not necessarily result in its commercial utilisation. The huge number of patent documents involved makes information retrieval a difficult and specialised operation. It is significant that the Australian Patent Office possesses the facilities for retrieving information from the patent documents of most countries. It is directing its attention to improving the efficiency and capacity of those facilities. When we consider that over 15 million documents have been generated by the patent systems of the various countries, the magnitude of the task of retrieval becomes evident. It is compounded and made more difficult by the inward looking nature of the patent systems of most countries, resulting in the development of the multitude of individual retrieval systems. It is therefore an important development that the nature of individual retrieval systems is being changed. There is a realisation of the need to develop a rationalised system for retrieving technical information from patent documents worldwide. This has led to the establishment of an international union within the framework of the United Nations agency, a union responsible for industrial property and known as the World Intellectual Property Organisation. This organisation co-ordinates and controls the development of a uniform information retrieval system. Australia is a member of the union, has contributed to the development of that system and is participating in its further development. It is a measure of Australian initiative that it was one of the first countries to abandon its own national retrieval system and adopt the international system. 
In discussing this Bill, I have directed my attention to one of the less obvious aspects of the patents system to which the petty patents system proposed in the Bill will make a positive contribution. The provision of technical information is such a fundamental feature of the patents system that in ignoring it we tend to lose sight of the extent of the contribution which the system can make to industrial development. I urge Australian industry to take advantage of it. Invention and technological change are essential elements in the continuing and increasing competitiveness of industry, and industry must learn about and make use of all relevant information, in particular that information available through the patents system. I commend the initiative of the Government in introducing this Bill as a significant step in making the Australian patents system a more effective mechanism for assisting industrial development in this country. 
-A considerable amount of confusion exists at present about the exhaust emission controls for motor vehicles. Part of that confusion has been brought about because two different bodies with different barrows to push are concerned about the issue. On the one hand, on the technical side, we have a committee of the Australian Transport Advisory Council- the Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions. That Committee has made an assessment of the effect of Australian Design Rule 27A of 1976 on consumption figures and costs for motor vehicles. As distinct from that we have a committee of the Australian Environment Council- Vehicle Emissions and Noise Standards Advisory Committee- which places far more emphasis on the environmental aspects of exhaust emissions and which in turn tries to make sure that some of the figures and some of the information produced by the Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions are perhaps wrong or deficient. 
In a short adjournment debate there is no point in trying to work out who is right and who is wrong. I believe that the technical committee probably has the better of the argument. But let us forget that for a moment. Let me make a few points along the lines that in fact it is really too soon to worry about the argument between those two. ADR 27A has been in existence since 1976 but we do not know how well it is working. Until we know how well it is working, why should we push on even further at this point? Why should we impose further cost on the motoring community? Let us look at what is happening at present. New South Wales is the one State above all others that seems to be pushing for the introduction of the next stage of the exhaust emission control rules. The next stage is due to take effect at the beginning of 1980 subject to a meeting of Ministers to take place in a few weeks time. New South Wales of course is currently heavily under the influence of the environmentalists. The New South Wales Government seems to be intent on debunking the work of the committee on motor vehicle emissions, quite wrongly in my view. So we have the problem that New South Wales is intent on pushing forward whilst we still have a dichotomy between the two bodies and while as I have already mentioned we still do not really know the total effect of ADR 27a as introduced in 1976. 
The reason why we do not know is very simple. It is that up to this point of time probably less than 40 per cent of motor vehicles on Australian roads are fitted with the 1976 controls. That is because the other 60 per cent are heavy duty vehicles and older vehicles which were built of course before those rules became effective. If we look further into the situation- New South Wales research proves this point- we find that out of the 40 per cent of vehicles fitted with ADR 27a controls, the great proportion are not working properly. It does not matter whether this is because people have tampered with them, have taken them off in order to improve their fuel economy, whether they are ineffectively or incorrectly fitted in the first place or whether they have not been adequately maintained. The fact is that out of that 40 per cent of vehicles that follow ADR 27a rules the great proportion are not functioning properly. How can we say that there is a need for the next step in the ADR 27a rules without first knowing what on earth is the effect of the present rules. 
My contention is that it is sheer madness to impose on the motoring public of this vast land the additional cost, the additional fuel consumption which will result from the next stage of the implementation of ADR 27a without knowing how effective the current rule will be? It follows that we have to give the current rule time to work and at the same time we have to encourage the motor vehicle industry to continue its research and its development to try to contribute to a growing efficiency and a growing awareness of the need for a cost efficient basis to continue the fight against unnecessary air pollution. 
-My comments should be seen quite clearly to be within the context of my own beliefs. The abortion procedure is absolutely abhorrent to me. I support all proper attempts to educate the community in order to ensure that abortions are unnecessary in our society. I support the family unit. I support the concept of loved and loving children within that unit. Nevertheless, I cannot support the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  Let us be certain that the Lusher motion is not really about Commonwealth medical benefit funding. I draw the attention of honourable members to the beginning of that motion which reads: 
. medical benefits shall not be provided ... for the termination of pregnancy . . . 
Clearly, that proposition is based on a certain premise, and that premise can only be that abortions are wrong. No other reason is given in the Lusher motion or in the Lusher speech. Consequently, we have to consider that issue of abortion, not simply the issue of medical benefits. If we think that the simple question of medical benefits is necessary then we must think about the Baume amendment which I have seconded. If we think that the principle of paying benefits for elective procedures is wrong then we must extend that principle to procedures other than the abortion procedure. If that be the case, we must think about other elective procedures such as corrective or cosmetic procedures. We must extend the principle beyond the simple question of funding abortions. 
However, that is not what the Lusher motion sets out to do. It does not worry about other elective procedures. Thus honourable members must work on the basis that the Lusher motion rests on the premise that abortion is wrong. My own view is that abortion on demand is certainly wrong. But I am concerned about the women whose long term mental health is at risk because of an unwanted or traumatic pregnancy, whose pregnancy arises as a result of rape or incest, whose foetus is doomed to tragic abnormality. As I am concerned about all those issues, if the Baume amendment is rejected I must vote for the Simon amendment. 
The honourable member for Hume conceded that his motion is based on the concept that abortions are wrong in law. He did this by trying to suggest that the Victorian Menhennitt law, among others, is wrong or bad law.  His  comments in that regard and those of other honourable members are really quite irresponsible. The law is not a plaything of the people to be debunked will nilly. The Menhennitt decision is law and remains law until it is changed by the decision of some superior court- that has not happened- or until it is changed by statute, which has not happened. So it is law within our concept of law which is the constitutional concept of the rule of law. That cannot be debunked. That is the very basis of our existence in this Parliament. The Menhennitt law cannot be written off by any honourable member of this House in order to support the Lusher motion. Further, and more regrettably, some honourable members have tried to debunk the Menhennitt decision because, they allege, it interferes with the longstanding proposition that necessity is no defence to a crime. That allegation is quite untrue. The Menhennitt decision does not say that necessity is a defence to abortion. It simply refers to the necessary standards which must apply in determining whether or not an abortion is necessary in accordance with the exceptions allowed to the absolute prohibition which otherwise applies. 
A further problem arises for those people who wish to debunk the Menhennitt law. They say it is no good because it is abused. Many laws in society are abused. That does not make them wrong or bad laws. They are still the laws of the land, they should be upheld and where evidence exists that they are being abused let that evidence come forward and let a prosecution follow. So it is that the Lusher motion must fail in its attempts to debunk Victorian and similar laws. It must fail as a simple discussion on the provision of medical benefits. It must follow that a reasoned approach to the question of abortion has to be adopted. Because the motion and many of the amendments fail to take account of the long term physical and mental welfare of the potential mother I can support only the Baume and Simon amendments and nothing else. 
My question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications refers to the Prime Minister's reply to a question yesterday concerning the work bans and limitations currently in force in the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. Can the Minister advise the House as to the present situation in these disputes and what action the Commissions are planning to take against Australian Postal and Telecommunications unions employees who refuse to carry out their normal duties? 
I claim to have been misrepresented. In commenting on the speech I made in the grievance debate the Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  suggested that I had said that because the present Government had not made a firm commitment on the Burdekin Dam I was suggesting that the Labor Party need not make a commitment either. I certainly did not say that. I trust that the Leader of the Opposition simply misheard me. The burden of my remarks was that I was unable to find the source of reported comment that the Labor Party was committed to the construction of the dam. I went on to say that in any event I regarded the matter as being above party politics and I said that I would welcome a decision from the Opposition to make a firm commitment just as I would welcome it from all of the major parties in this country. I was certainly disappointed to note that the Leader of the Opposition further - 
-The Burdekin River and its tributaries in north Queensland form Queensland 's largest river system in terms of the annual discharge of water to sea. Indeed, the Burdekin River system is second in size only to the mighty Murray system. In Queensland the Burdekin River annually discharges to the sea an average of over seven million acre feet of water. That compares, for example, with the Fitzroy River system in Queensland, also a very large system, which discharges some 4.6 million acre feet per annum. 
Thus it is that with such a large amount of water flowing annually to the sea, the Burdekin Dam has been a long-held dream in North Queenslanders' hearts and minds. They see it as a dam which would permit the opening up of vast tracts of land suitable for irrigation and primary production; a dam which would provide water to further encourage development in various townships and cities along the coast of Queensland, particularly the city of Townsville. 
The damming of the Burdekin River came to be regarded as an essential development in post-war years, at a time when there were threats and fears of food shortages throughout the world, in particular in Europe; at a time when there was a widespread feeling that parts of Australia would become the food bowl of Europe. Of course, that fear largely failed to materialise, but the development of the Burdekin Dam remains as an unabated point of concern to North Queenslanders. It is regarded as being essential to the development of the TownsvilleBurdekin area. It is regarded as being of such magnitude that it is of State and national significance as well as regional significance. 
Over the years, a number of studies have been done on the damming of the Burdekin, its viability and what can be done with the land thereby opened up. The first major report was the Kemp report, which was delivered in about 1957. A continuing problem over the years, however, has been the difficulty of assessing the economic viability of the project. At last this point appears to have been tackled specifically in the latest State departmental assessment, carried out by a committee called the Burdekin Project Assessment Committee, which was delivered to the Queensland Premier late last year. That assessment recommended that initially the Burdekin Dam be built to a size that would hold back 1.75 megalitres of water. This would provide for the opening up of land well into the year 2000- an opening up process in step with the capacity of the country to develop that land and to export the produce from it. On that particular assessment, the development will give an internal return of 10 per cent on invested funding. As I have said, at long last the question of the economic viability of the project has been tackled and proven. 
When it comes to the construction of the dam, it is of course the State Government which has the primary concern for and is responsible for the implementation of any decision to go ahead. The Queensland Government is not unnaturally concerned about the response of the Commonwealth Government. In a statement reported in the  Townsville Daily Bulletin  on 22 May 1979 the Queensland Premier said that he was confident that the Commonwealth would allocate money to help build the dam and the associated hydroelectric plant. Of course, it is only the small dam without hydro-electricity which it is suggested should be proceeded with first by the committee to which I referred. In any event, the Premier felt confident that the Commonwealth would come to the party. The Premier went on to say that a start would be made on the Burdekin dam by his Government even if the Commonwealth 
Government failed to provide financial aid for the project. 
That newspaper report simply serves to highlight that it is primarily a State responsibility to make a decision about and to go ahead with the construction of the Burdekin dam, just as it is necessarily a State responsibility to be concerned about a whole range of infrastructure developments, whether they be roads, dams, electricity generating power plants or any other such project. The making of that decision is a State responsibility. 
It is a little of a surprise to me that the Queensland Government does not seem to have considered the Burdekin dam project as one of the projects that could be financed through the infrastructure financing approved recently by the Loan Council. Queensland, in fact, has been allowed to borrow overseas some $205m for various projects. These include the Hay Point coal loader and electricity generating projects at Gladstone, Wivenhoe and Tarong. But no finance is being made available for irrigation. Certainly none is being made available for the Burdekin dam. One wonders why that project, as it is of such great importance, could not be considered as a suitable project for infrastructure financing. 
Quite clearly the State Government does certainly want the Commonwealth Government to come to the party. There is no reason why in future years the project ought not to be put right at the top of the list of priorities for consideration under, for example, the national water resources program. I suppose there is no reason at all why the State Government cannot continue to put up the Burdekin dam as a special case, although that may be going a little further afield than the Commonwealth might wish to contemplate. Certainly, a commitment from the Commonwealth Government, be it through the national water resources program or through some other program, is utterly desirable and essential to the prompt and successful completion of this project. lt is interesting to note the reported comments of the Opposition in relation to the Burdekin dam. In opening the First Session of the Twentyninth Parliament- that is, the Parliament of the then Labor Government- the Governor-General stated, inter alia; that, in co-operation with the Queensland Government, the Commonwealth would press ahead with (yet another) study of the potential of the Burdekin and Bowen Basin. The outcome of that particular study was delivered in about 1 976. It was a joint FederalState committee report but it was, in fact, a somewhat sober document and did not make any particularly firm recommendations about an immediate start on the project. That, I presume, is what prompted the State Government to go ahead with its own further assessment, the results of which were delivered to the Premier late last year. 
Apart from that, I have been unable to find any commitment by the Labor Opposition to the Burdekin dam. An editorial in the  Townsville Daily Bulletin  of 15 May stated that the Federal Labor Party had committed itself to the project. I cannot find where that commitment was stated. I cannot find the source of that particular editorial. 
If the Labor Party and the Opposition Caucus were to make a decision in favour of the Burdekin dam I would welcome it. The Burdekin dam, so far as north Queenslanders are concerned, ought not to be considered on any partisan basis. It is an issue that rises above the parochialism of party politics. It is something that north Queenslanders will welcome and something that north Queenslanders hope all major political parties will embrace and endorse. 
-Indeed; I said all parties. The honourable member does not really listen, does he? North Queenslanders know that that longheld dream is not an impossible dream. They know that governments, State or Federal, of whatever political colour, should proceed with the construction of that dam straight away. They grieve that the building of the complete project has not yet been undertaken. They hope that the commitments which at long last may be made will ensure that the project will be proceeded with. They urge that the governments make their decisions immediately so that the construction of the dam can proceed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Representations. I understand that the Minister is not here but that the Minister for Trade and Resources will answer the question. I refer the Minister to the settlement which he reached last week in Australia's bilateral negotiations with the European Economic Community in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations: Has the question also been raised with Vice  President  Gundelach of the difficulties being caused on the world sugar market by EEC export subsidies and its non-membership of the International Sugar Agreement? 
I refer the Minister for Defence to reference in the Auditor-General's annual report to the current procurement of patrol frigates for the Navy. What are Australia's financial arrangements with the United States of America about those and other defence purchases? 
Can the Minister for Defence inform the House on progress with construction of 15 new patrol boats for the Navy which are being built in north Queensland? Is the project proceeding satisfactorily? Will the lead ship being constructed in the United Kingdom be delivered to the Navy on time? 
I must say that it was a very quaint invitation that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  just extended to me. Let me assure him that crossing the floor to his side on this measure is certainly not attractive to me. As far as I am concerned, I am prepared to support this Bill on one account in particular, namely, that in his second reading speech the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  when introducing the Bill, made the point that the Government had decided to review the scheme on an annual basis and to set an appropriate rate of subsidy, taking into account the outlook for the user industries and the need to maintain budgetary restraints over public expenditure. What this means, in effect, is that the Government is not using the IAC report as a crutch. That was the accusation made by the honourable member for Werriwa. In truth that is not so. That was stated by the Minister in his second reading speech. 
Of course, the honourable member for Werriwa is trying to make great waves in the State of Queensland. I commend him for the attempt, although it will not work. He says that this Bill attacks the Queensland sugar industry. Let us consider the measures of assistance that have been given to the Queensland sugar industry over the last 12 months. Let us consider in particular the reference to a special IAC inquiry of the question of the domestic retail price and as a result of that the substantial domestic price increase that occurred in May 1979. Let us consider the new Commonwealth-State sugar agreement which has now been announced. The parties are the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government. It is an agreement which guarantees an adjustment mechanism which will provide for price increases in future years to be not less than consumer price index increases. Let us consider the fuel freight price subsidy scheme which the Labor Government abandoned in its time in office. Let us consider the phosphate bounty which the Labor Government abandoned in its time in office. All that means that we have good grounds for saying that following the 1975 report of the IAC on nitrogenous fertilisers a Labor government would also have abandoned the subsidy in that area. We have very good grounds for suspecting that it certainly would have done so, as it did in the case of phosphate. We cannot trust it. 
We have not attacked the sugar industry. I have indicated the support we have given it. As I have indicated, we certainly do not use the IAC report simply as a crutch because in effect we have abandoned it. Having pointed out the shallowness of the claim of the honourable member for Werriwa that I should cross the floor when voting on this Bill, quite surprisingly, I indicate some measure of agreement with him. In fact, like him, I think that the subsidy ought not to be cut down to $20 a tonne. Like him, I think that there are good grounds for at least having a further IAC inquiry into the matter. Let us come back to that in a few minutes' time. 
Nitrogenous fertilisers are widely used in Australia 's primary industries. The figures that were cited by the honourable member for Werriwa were, I understand, largely true. Something like 40 per cent to 50 per cent of all nitrogenous fertilizers used in Australia is applied to the groups of various grain crops and 30 per centthe largest single percentage- is used in one industry, the sugar industry. Nitrogen is the single most important nutrient which is applied to cane and it is used in all of Australia's cane growing districts. As I have said, I am pleased that the Government has abandoned the IAC report on nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy which was prepared in September 1975. That report recommended the phasing out of the subsidy by the end of 1978. That has not happened. There are to be annual reviews and this Bill is to continue the subsidy at a lower level at $20 a tonne during the calendar year 1 980. 
Nevertheless, I should point out that the reduction in the subsidy comes at a time when primary producers, and cane growers in particular, face very rapid overhead cost increases. Rapid increases in the price of nitrogenous fertilisers are a significant part of those cost increases. For example, the ex-factory price of urea, which is the main form of nitrogen application to sugar cane, has increased by 18 per cent since May 1979, the date of the domestic price increase given to the sugar industry. In fact, in the 12 months since September 1978, the ex-factory price of urea has increased by 29 per cent. Final prices are pushed higher by transport and application costs. Similar price increases have been experienced in all the other fertiliser forms of nitrogen. The reduction in the subsidy from $40 a tonne to $20 a tonne will add some 5 per cent or 6 per cent to the price of nitrogenous fertilisers. Indeed, it has been estimated that that reduction alone will add from $900,000 to $1.2m per annum to cane growers' production costs. As I have said, the reduction in the subsidy comes at a time of rapid overhead cost increases, increases which since the domestic retail price of sugar was increased in May, have significantly eroded the benefit of that increase. Whilst I support the continuation of the subsidy as proposed in the Bill, I make the point that considering all the matters to which I have referred, a higher subsidy might be appropriate and guarantees of longer term support might also be appropriate. At the very least, these matters indicate that a further reference to the IAC ought to be considered. 
There is another reason why another reference to the IAC might well be considered. That is the difference between findings in the IAC report of October 1976 on assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers and the nitrogenous fertilisers report to which I have already referred. In the summary of its report on phosphatic fertilisers, the IAC stated: 
In assessing whether the Australian Government should continue to provide assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers, the Commission has considered both the economic efficiency and welfare implications. It has concluded, on efficiency grounds, that assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers should be continued. 
The IAC further stated: 
The Commission favours retention of assistance at about the present level for a period of five years commencing 1 July 1977. 
When inquiring into nitrogenous fertilisers the IAC looked at questions of efficiency and having done so concluded in the light of the evidence it had taken that a subsidy on the use of nitrogenous fertilisers should not be recommended. The Commission further stated that it had therefore concluded that the subsidy ought to be phased out over a period rather than be terminated immediately. It then went on to suggest the termination in the terms that I have already referred to in this debate. It is interesting to note that in the case of the phosphate bounty one commissioner did not agree with IAC report. That commissioner was one of the commissioners who had also heard the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy case. Of  Mr Robinson  the report stated: 
In his opinion there is no case on efficiency grounds for recommending a long-term bounty on the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers. 
This points to an apparent difference in opinion which is not easy to explain and which of itself suggests that the IAC ought to look again at the whole question. As the IAC recommended a review of the phosphate bounty before the end of June 1982, a review of both that and the nitrogen subsidy at an early date might well be appropriate. I support the continuation in 1 980 of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy scheme. I welcome the abandonment of the IAC report of 1975. However, I also put the case for considering a higher level of subsidy than $20 a tonne on nitrogen content, or at least for having a further reference to the IAC. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Representations. I refer to the report of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade sugar panel, set up at the request of Australia, which was presented to the GATT Council last night in Geneva. Can the Minister advise what conclusions were reached to investigate European Economic Community sugar export practices? 
-This Bill is designed to allow Australian accession to the Patent Cooperation Treaty which, of convenience, we can refer to as the PCT. To the motion for the second reading of this Bill we have just heard an amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It would seem to me that the amendment rests on some sort of misconception of what this Bill really is all about. It would seem that the amendment is trying to widen the ambit of this Bill to take in the whole general area of industrial research and development, which is really quite irrelevant to this debate. With that comment, I shall leave it to the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  to indicate the Government's attitude to the amendment. 
A couple of the points that the honourable member for Adelaide has made would seem to me to be casting more doubt about this legislation than needs to be cast. It is, of course, quite true that in the end result the real effectiveness of our accession to the Treaty will be known only after a trial period, after a period of usage. To that extent, I suppose it is valid to say that the Treaty may not do what we hope of it. On the other hand, it may well do all that is hoped of it. The honourable member for Adelaide made reference to the benefits being more imaginary than real. I would suggest that there are going to be some very real benefits which can and will flow from our belonging to the PCT. I shall indicate some of these in more detail in my speech, but, just putting it in a nutshell, our accession to the Treaty may well give Australia wider and quicker access to international inventions. It may well provide simpler and possibly more effective and less expensive international protection than currently exists for Austraiian inventiveness. The assistance that we can give undeveloped nations, particularly in the South East Asian region, is important from Australia's point of view. Finally, I refer to the point the honourable member for Adelaide made about the low level of Austraiian patent applications; indeed, this accession can provide a stimulus to Australian inventiveness, research and development- by no means all the stimulus that may be needed but in itself it can provide a stimulus. 
I accept that there ought to be a more national approach, if you like, to industrial research and development. What the PCT can do and may well do for Australia is to provide one way of stimulating further and more inventive research and development. After the honourable member for Adelaide made that point he went on to discuss the level of industrial research and development funding as provided by the Government. It is a criticism that I do not accept. It is a criticism that does not really give a proper analysis of the Budget provisions last year and this year for research and development. Nevertheless, all that is really quite irrelevant to the main point, which simply is that we are seeking to accede to a treaty which I believe will give real benefits to Australian industry and to the part we can play in the South East Asian region in particular. 
The Patent Cooperation Treaty is, for the first time, providing a truly international service for the filing and processing of patent applications. Acceding to the Treaty was widely canvassed over the last year. The Minister for Productivity called for, and received, submissions from a wide cross-section of Australian organisations and the Australian community at large. Australian industry and research institutions were overwhelmingly in favour of acceding to the Treaty. 
There has been a measure of international collaboration and co-ordination in industrial property matters for nearly a century. I refer here to the first major international convention dealing with the protection of industrial property, the Paris Union. This Union was based on the principle of mutual recognition and recorded an agreement to develop domestic laws along certain established lines. Nevertheless, the industrial property system remained firmly based on the domestic laws, courts and procedures of individual nations. 
Certain other arrangements followed. For example, there was the Madrid Agreement, which gave some sort of international system for the registration of trade marks. But no supranational method of dealing with industrial property rights evolved until the creation of the Patent Cooperation Treaty. At times, various ideas have been tried out or proposed. For example, some nations in post- World War II Europe tried to harmonise procedures and formalities to achieve uniformity in law, but to little effect. The Scandinavians made a brave attempt with their Nordic system and an international searching centre was established at The Hague but still there was no really international system. 
Then came the Common Market in Europe and with it a recognition that nationally based industrial property laws were probably incompatible with the economic aims of the European Economic Community as expressed in the Treaty of Rome. One of the cornerstones of Community policy is the free movement of goods. It was therefore seen that a uniform and monolithic patent system was desirable and probably ultimately inevitable. 
Thus, in the early 1960s, we saw come into being the European Patent Convention, which provided a new style of international activity. That came, I might say, at an opportune time because at that time we found patent offices, patent users and patent applicants around the world bogging down in a mass of applications and patent literature. Patents were becoming more complex, applicants were seeking wider geographical protection and there was generally some upsurge in the number of applications being made. A more universal system than the European convention was therefore seen to be needed to solve some of the problems, which included multiple searching and separate filings in countries in which protection was sought. After intense argument the PCT came about. It was the first serious attempt to marshal the resources of the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the great examining patent offices of the world. It provides for the first time an international service for filing and processing patent applications. By this Bill, Australia will accede to the Treaty and take advantage of its benefits three months after the Bill has been assented to. 
I turn now to consider some of the benefits that I believe will flow to Australian industry as a result of accession to the Treaty. The procedure under the Treaty presents great advantages over the present procedures for the user of the patent system. Firstly, the PCT proposes an optional procedure for the international filing of patent applications. Secondly, it will simplify procedures for obtaining a patent for the same invention in several countries. Thirdly, it will facilitate and accelerate access to technological information disclosed by patents. 
Austraiian industry applicants will find it easier to obtain protection for inventions in foreign countries. The PCT procedure allows the applicant to file one application in one language in his own country, even at the last moment in the priority year, obtaining at the same time a filing effect in all the foreign countries which are party to the Treaty. In this situation the applicant gains two important benefits. First of all, he gains more time for the making of his initial applications for protection in other countries. Under the Paris convention, international applications must be made in other countries within 12 months of application in the home country. Under the PCT there will be a further eight months within which these applications can be made internationally. Secondly, because of the greater time that will be allowed and the international search that will ensue as a result of the filing of an application, the applicant will have more time to consider whether he ought to undertake the expense of seeking wider protection internationally and whether he should go to the trouble of all the documentation that will therefore be necessary. Indeed, an international preliminary report, if requested, will put the applicant in an even better position to judge the validity of his application and the usefulness of incurring the expense of a national or regional procedure before the offices concerned. 
Austraiian industry, as a competitor, will profit from the PCT procedure, particularly in view of the early publication of international applications. Whereas it is now rather difficult to get a complete picture of all the patent documents published in many countries and languages, and of the most recent state of the art they disclose, Australian industry in future will have earlier access to those inventions for which applications are filed under the Treaty. Those applications will be published by the international bureau 18 months from the priority date and with them will be an international search report. This publication, in one of five world languages, including English, will provide knowledge about important inventions at quite an early date. The international search report published together with the application will make it easier to evaluate the chances of one's competitor to obain a valid patent. 
Those engaged in Australian industry, as exporters, should derive benefits from the PCT. Australia is a major trading nation. Our industry is based on advanced technology and we therefore have a special interest in ensuring that the international patent system operates efficiently and economically so that it may act as a stimulus to the further growth of international trade. 
If we want to encourage the export of goods and technology and to promote greater innovation within industry, there is a need for an international patent protection system capable of providing a stimulus to the development and flow of trade and technology. The Patent Cooperation Treaty will assist here by improving the international legal recognition and enforcement of patents, by simplifying lodgment procedures for applicants seeking multi-country protection, by reducing the current high level of legal costs involved in securing adequate protection in a number of countries and by facilitating a free flowing exchange of information on technology, which is the subject of patent applications. Strong patent protection is, of course, important to the exporters of manufactured goods, because one of the reasons sales are obtained is that products and productive processes are more technologically advanced than those of competitors. If an exporter believes that his patent might be copied by an unscrupulous importer, there is a real reluctance to export at all, with obvious implications for international trade. 
I turn now to look at Australia's role as an international searching authority. It is in this area that Australia can be of assistance to undeveloped nations, particularly those in the SouthEast Asian region. Australia's role as a searching office would enhance our commercial and trading interests and improve our overall image in the South-East Asian region if, firstly, through the Austraiian Patent Office, we were to provide patent services at cost or thereabouts for the developing countries of Asia. This is something that most of those countries are not capable of providing at present because of their lack or scarcity of technical expertise and the drain on financial resources. Such a step would also demonstrate Australia's sincerity in facilitating their economic and industrial development. This course of action is one that I would commend to the Government. 
Secondly, Australia could help the South-East Asian region if we explored the possibility of regional co-operation in industrial property matters. This sort of move should foster closer trade ties between Australian industries and those of Asia. A uniform- system for protecting patents would ensure that countries in the regions recognise and do not infringe upon the patents held by Australians, with obvious advantages for Australian exporters. Furthermore, Australian investors and licences would have the benefit of operating within a patents system they fully understand. In this way, trade in goods, as well as transfer of capital and technology with their consequential linkages with trade in goods, would be further developed. The overall effect could be to focus Asian attention on Australia as a technology information centre for the whole region. This would undoubtedly enhance the role of Australia's patent profession and possibly the industrial research industry in Australia. It should also facilitate the flow of technology within the region, thereby giving Australian industry greater opportunity to participate in the development of these countries. 
This Bill should be seen as but one step in a continuing program over the last couple of years to improve the Australian patent system. During the life of this Parliament we have seen what was substantially the amendment to section 54a of the Patents Act. That was the amendment which, in effect, brought forward the publication date of patents. We have seen the introduction of the petty patents system. We now have this Bill to give accession to the PCT. The Minister has foreshadowed in his second reading speech- the honourable member for Adelaide has already referred to this- a review of the Australian patent system to be undertaken by the Industrial Property Advisory Committee. This could well be a major, wide-ranging, most significant and important review. 
So we come to the PCT, marking the beginning of the end of the age of complete isolationism in industrial property legislation and procedures. It has already triggered off a whole series of other proposals, some of which have led to other international arrangements and some of which are still under discussion. It has provided the impetus to revive the European patent system, which became an effective patent system, on the same day as the PCT. It represents the beginning of a truly international system which is already being further explored. 
-The purpose of this Sugar Agreement Bill is to approve of a new Commonwealth-Queensland Government sugar agreement. The terms of this agreement have been significantly influenced by the results of a special wide-ranging inquiry into the sugar industry. This inquiry was held under the chairmanship of  Mr McKinnon  of the Industries Assistance Commission. That inquiry was decided upon following a request under the previous Commonwealth-Queensland agreement for an increase in the domestic price of sugar. 
The result was, firstly, a recommendation for a reasonably substantial domestic price increase. Secondly, the McKinnon report found in favour of continuing the essential features of what is a managed industry, with a determined or administered domestic price protected by an import embargo. 
It is important to note that in making its recommendations the Commission was not doing so on the basis of offering assistance or protection to some inefficient industry. I will try to answer some of the worries expressed by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  about the fact that this is a managed industry. On page 75 of the Industries Assistance Commission report the comment is made:  the industry is efficient in comparison to other Australian industries and sugar industries overseas . . . 
On the same page the following words appear: 
The acquisition and sole seller arrangements, control of sales of farms, production controls. State-wide cane payment bases, and the administered home consumption price arrangements are all features of a managed industry. Examination of the arrangements for managing the industry does not lead to the conclusion that the industry has been overprotected or the consumer exploited in recent years. 
I ask the honourable member for Werriwa to note this paragraph on page 74; 
Given the present ownership of refineries and arrangements for refining, it is not possible to look to market forces and interfirm comparisons as indicators of the technical and cost efficiency of refining in Australia. Information submitted to this inquiry showed decreasing levels of man-hours per tonne melted and energy use and maintenance man-hours per tonne processed. Comparison of performance with large overseas refiners suggested that, to the extent international comparisons were made, CSR's performance compared favourably on the basis of indicators used. 
Thus the Commission reported in favour of an administered price with the import embargo protection. Again I quote from page 75. The Commission found: 
While the existing institutional arrangements involving acquisition of all domestic sugar and a single dominant refiner exist, it is doubtful whether mere relaxation of the current import control would prove an effective competitive force. 
On page 76 the Commission wrote: 
While the Commission may differ on whether it is necessary to justify on the one hand the removal of the existing import embargo and the administered price and, on the other, to justify their continuance, it is agreed, for a variety of reasons, that the current system of an administered price protected by an import embargo should be continued. 
The Commission then recommended a reasonable and deserved domestic price level which provides a new starting base for the new agreement. The new price is still highly competitive by comparison with domestic prices in other countries around the world. Figures on this can be seen on page 77 of the report, and a reason is given, as an illustration, on page 78. At the beginning of the third paragraph on page 78 the report states: 
It is generally agreed that by world standards the Australian industry is relatively low cost. 
The benefits of that result in a price domestic consumers have to pay, which, as I said, is still highly competitive compared with domestic prices in other parts of the world. Having regard to the Commission's findings, the two governments have now decided upon the terms of the new sugar agreement. 
I now confine my remarks to one of the more important features of the Agreement- the formula it contains for determining annually the maximum domestic price for refined bulk sugar of IXD grade. Essentially the new price is found by multiplying the price for the previous year by three components. The first is the percentage change in the consumer price index. That is understood easily enough. The second is a ratio reflecting the increase or decrease in returns on exports during the immediately preceding year. I will refer to that in a little more detail later. The third component is a number- 0.7. That number is a measure of what are called cash costs; that is, put generally, expenditure directly incurred in producing sugar. It is a measure that is less than total costs, which means that certain costs such as depreciation and unpaid labour inputs are not to be taken into account in determining future price levels. 
Leaving aside for a moment the export returns ratio, the simple result is that the industry can get increases of only 70 per cent of CPI increases. That may sound reasonable. But I suggest that over time the formula may well bear down unreasonably on the domestic price returns to the industry. If the new May 1979 price was reasonable and realistic, the new formula may well result in rather less than reasonable and realistic domestic prices in future years. A number of hypothetical applications of the new formula have found that only 56 per cent to 64 per cent of CPI increases will find its way into returns to millers and growers. The honourable member for Werriwa has pointed out also that a possible defect in the formula is that the CPI itself may not be a satisfactory reflection of industry cash costs, which may rise rather more rapidly than, say, any CPI increases. 
I turn to a consideration of the export returns ratio. I have called it that for simplicity. The effect of this component is that the domestic price increase will be affected inversely by changes or movements in overseas returns. Put rather simply, if overseas returns increase, the percentage domestic price increase will be less than the CPI increase multiplied by 0.7. On the other hand, if those returns decrease, the percentage domestic increase will be more than 70 per cent of the CPI increase, but under the terms of the Agreement it cannot be more than 100 per cent of the CPI increase. 
Inclusion of this export returns ratio in the formula certainly seems fair and reasonable and it may work well enough for the industry. But again I would make the point that over time the result could be an unreasonable bearing down on what should be a realistic domestic price level. 
In Clause 6, sub-clause (3) of the Agreement there is a limited escape clause. Under that clause the price in any year can be agreed between the Commonwealth and the State, otherwise than by a strict application of the formula. Because of the possible defects in the formula, to which I have referred, I hope that the Government will be flexible and, if necessary, will be prepared to use this escape provision. Overall, the new agreement improves upon the one it replaces. So far as domestic price levels are concerned, the adjustment formula introduces elements of objectivity and regularity, in stark contrast with the delays in achieving adjustments previously in what often became unfortunately politicised exercises. I support the Bill. 
I refer the Minister for Defence to a question I asked him in the House on 19 September concerning the cost of the new patrol frigates for the Royal Australian Navy. At that time the Minister indicated that in the near future he would disclose the latest position regarding the cost of those ships. Can he inform the House when he will be in a position to supply that information? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House views with concern: 
1 ) the alarming movement within the Australian Labor Party towards socialist centralism, to the particular detriment of the less populous States and of people living in remoter parts of the nation; 
Labor policy which seeks to strip the Senate of its general power to reject proposed laws; 
Labor policy which seeks to amend the Constitution to provide for its alteration by a simple majority of the electorate; and 
the view of at least one prominent Labor Party member that the States should be abolished. 
