J listened this afternoon while the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made reference to what occurred following the 1972 Federal elections. The reference he made concerned the necessity for the newly elected Government to take action which apparently is somewhat unprecedented. Perhaps I should feel a little guilty because the reason that the Labor Government could not function properly was that the electorate I represent was the last in Australia to provide a result following that election. When that result was made known, the Labor Party was successful in the electorate of Lilley by the margin of 35 votes. 
I place on record my thanks to the people of Lilley who supported the Labor Party and recorded a vote for me on the occasion of that election. I referred to the somewhat small majority, but 1 hastily add that one receives encouragement from many sources and I was particularly encouraged, following the election, when the new Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  in his own inimitable fashion, took me aside in a friendly way and assured me that if 1 worked hard in my electorate, looked after the people and attended my duties 1 should have no trouble in doubling that majority. I am confident that when the people of Australia realise  -  I know they have done so to a great degree even at present - the progressive type of policy that the Labor Party in office will be pursuing in future, at the next Federal election there will be an avalanche of support for this Government. I say that because the people of this nation are progressive in their attitude. No longer can they accept the type of policies to which they had been subjected over the years. They want change and they want this nation to really go forward and the vehicle for progress in this day and age is an Australian Labor Party Government. 
I also place on record my appreciation of the support that was given to me by people within my electorate during the campaign - people who worked on behalf of the Labor Party and who sought as their only reward the return of a Labor Party government. These people worked tirelessly in my electorate and I appreciated their action very much. I am particularly fortunate in entering Parliament at a time when the Government is taking a new involvement in a whole range of social policies which have particular reference to an electorate such as mine. I will work in this Parliament and in my electorate as a member of a government which is pledged to work for equal opportunity in education for Australian children; greater employment opportunities; a better deal for pensioners; a real attack on poverty; a proud and progressive Australia a vote for the 18-year-olds in the community and recognition of the status and rights of the Aboriginal people. 
I repeat that I am proud to be a member of this Government. My one regret is that the State of Queensland did not return more Government supporters in the elections last year. The Australian Labor Party had excellent candidates. They were dedicated men who would have made excellent contributions to this Parliament and to its functions. I believe the reason for more members not being returned from Queensland to this side of the House was the type of campaign which was entered into by the opponents of the Labor Party, particularly the type of campaign and the attacks which were made on the Australian Labor Party's progressive health policy. On this occasion, of course, full-page newspaper advertisements, pamphlets, radio programs and all the different means of communicating with people were used to mislead and to falsely represent the Australian Labor Party's policies. 
It certainly was a shame. It was with pleasure that I listened to the speech of His Excellency the Governor-General setting out the progressive plans for the future of Australia and dealing with health insurance - a policy which this Government is pledged to introduce on behalf of the people of the nation. I was particularly pleased to hear the Governor-General say that the overriding consideration must be the welfare of the patient. Our opponents in Queensland claimed that the Australian Labor Party in government at the Federal level would destroy Queensland's free hospital scheme. 
This scheme was introduced in Queensland by a State Labor government and it was introduced despite the bitter opposition of Conservatives in government here at that particular time. This happened about a quarter of a century ago. Under a Labor government this free hospital scheme was properly maintained, was run efficiently and it provided not only hospital treatment for the people of Queensland but also medical treatment in the outpatients section of the Brisbane public hospital and Queensland's public hospital. But after 15± years of Country Liberal-Party Government at State level in Queensland and after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government at the Federal level, the free hospital scheme so proudly introduced by an Australian Labor Party government has come in for criticism, not necessarily from Labor Party people but from other people within the community. For instance, the 'Australian' newspaper recently ran a series of articles dealing with the hospital and health scheme in Queensland. The heading of one of the series of articles which appeared in the Brisbane section of that newspaper is 'Black List Silences the Doctors'. The article reads: 
The threat of a Health Department 'black list' hangs over Queensland doctors and nurses who complain about the Slate's health system. 
Anyone who pries into the system as I did encounters this medical wall of silence. 
Medical personnel either refuse to be quoted in tear of their jobs, or the braver of them speak, but insist on anonymity. 
The existence of the departmental 'black list' was confirmed by outspoken Liberal doctor-politician  Dr Arthur  Crawford, MLA. 

 Dr Crawford, a Wickham Terrace surgeon, has incensed some of his fellow Liberals in State Parliament with his fearless comments on Queensland's health system. 
The next part of the article should be of interest to everybody in Queensland. Questions should be asked and action taken to have something done at State level in respect of this. The article continues: 
Inferior intravenous equipment and antibiotics were being imported from overseas for Queensland hospitals because they were cheap,  Dr Crawford  said. 
The State Stores Board calls tenders in Queensland. If a drug representative presents a new drug he will be asked not whether it is efficient, but what it costs,  Dr Crawford  said. 
This section of the series of articles refers to an attack on the Queensland health system, not by the Labor Party but by a member of the Liberal Party in the Queensland State Government. Many of the ladies listening in 
Queensland this evening would have read the article which dealt with the obstetrics section of the Royal Brisbane Women's Hospital. The article states that a shortage of beds is looming in Queensland. Anyone investigating this allegation must wonder how any conscientious government could attack the sound proposal put forward by the Australian Labor Party in the election campaign preceding the last Federal election. I quote briefly from this article, which reads: 
By the end of next year, the facilities at the Royal Brisbane Women's Hospital will not be enough to cope with women having babies, according to a specialist obstetrician al the hospital. 
The hospital was rapidly approaching a crisis in the provision of obstetrics beds. lt is the only Government-provided obstetrics hospital in Brisbane and the Government has no plans to build another, the obstetrician said. 
Even if it did, it takes 10 years to bring a hospital from the planning stage to completion. In the meantime, the women of Brisbane are in for a rough time. 
This is typical of articles which appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper. Unfortunately these articles appeared not before the federal election but following it. They expose the Country Liberal Party Government in Queensland and the way that it has allowed a health and hospital scheme, which was introduced in 1946, and which served the people of Brisbane very well, to deteriorate. 
Several matters mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech are of specific interest to Queenslanders. I was somewhat astounded to hear the honourable member for Petrie (Mv Cooke) say in effect that there was nothing in the Governor-General's Speech which meant much to Australians. I wondered whether he listened to, read or heard about the Governor.General's Speech delivered in 1969. Tt represented the programme of the previous Federal Government. I am told that it took  His Excellency  one minute to read that speech. 
There could not have been much in it. I was particularly interested to hear  His Excellency  the Governor-General refer to a proposal which would be welcomed by the people of Brisbane, namely, the Federal Government's foreshadowed action to implement, in co-operation with the States, a major program to improve public transport. I was astounded to hear the honourable member for Petrie make some caustic comments about this proposal. Coming from Brisbane he should know that in 1947 a State Labor government tabled a report, which was adopted in 1950, which dealt with the electrification of the Brisbane railway system. When the Labor Government left State office in Queensland in 1957 tracks had been laid, buildings had been provided and the electrification of the Brisbane railway system was well on the way. But the incoming government, which took office in 1957, did not take long - I think a matter of about one year - to shelve the plan and to stop the work which the Labor Government had commenced. 
The city of Brisbane, its business people, its work force, its suburban residents and the proper progress of its development have been seriously disadvantaged as a result of this retrograde step. It really amazes me that a member coming from the Brisbane area should attack something that the Federal Labor Government is trying to do on behalf of the people of Brisbane. I point out that at the time when the Labor Government in Queensland made a decision to go ahead with the electrification scheme the cost would have been slightly more than $5m. I believe that the figure now is $60m or more. 
At the last Queensland State election the Labor Party promised that if re-elected it would go ahead with the electrification scheme. By a strange coincidence on the night following the election speech delivered by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland, the Deputy Leader of the Queensland State Government, delivering his policy speech, promised the people of Queensland that a transport commission would be established and that work would be commenced on the electrification of the Brisbane railway system. To my knowledge nothing was done until quite recently, when a report was made indicating that this Federal Government would make finance available in order that proper public transport might be provided for the residents of Brisbane. 
One might inquire why the Brisbane people have not applied pressure on the State Government with a view to having something done to improve the transport system. Of course, something was done by the Queensland Government. It had 2 reports prepared in the interim period by an American firm of consultants, Wilbur Smith and Associates. The first report, which was introduced in 1965, advised the Government and the people of Queensland that steps should be taken to provide freeways and to improve private transport facilities in Brisbane. Apparently  Mr Wilbur  Smith, an American, did not learn from the American experience that by providing additional roadways and freeways the cities become jammed with traffic hold-ups, that the air becomes polluted and that the environment suffers. That proposal was contained in the first report. 
In 1970 the second report was handed down. In this report  Mr Wilbur  Smith and his firm recommended that public transport should be improved in Brisbane. That appeared to be a direct contradiction of the findings of his earlier report. It appears that until the Federal Government makes finance available to Queensland nothing will be done in regard to improving the transport system in Brisbane. I was particularly pleased to hear the Governor-General make reference to the Government's belief that industrial confidence requires industrial co-operation and that the Government will take steps to promote cooperation and reduce confrontation. How any reasonable person with a sense of responsibility is able to advance arguments in opposition to such a proposal is beyond comprehension. 
It is in the industrial relations field that the Labor Government differs most from the previous Government. Before I resume my seat I would like to say that I believe that the Government has a good attitude towards industrial relations. I believe that if people in the work force want to enjoy the benefits that are gained from trade union activities and the work that is put into industry on behalf of workers, they should belong to unions. I believe that the great majority of Australian people subscribe to this view. I confidently believe that the people of Australia will support the Labor Government in its industrial policy and that when that policy is put into operation true industrial peace will be brought to Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Mackellar)Order! Before I call the honourable member for Darling Downs I remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask that the usual courtesies be extended. I call the honourable member for Darling Downs. 
 Is  the Minister for Immigration aware that many settlers from the United Kingdom believe that they automatically become Australian citizens upon taking up residence here? Will the Minister take steps  either to correct this wrong impression or to confirm that citizens of the United Kingdom receive Australian citizenship automatically upon migration to Australia? 
As I have listened to speakers on the other side of the House I have found myself at a loss to understand the great mystery surrounding the question of lowering of the voting age. It appears to me that these honourable members all support voting for 18-year-olds and over. Yet these same honourable members were in a government which left office only 3 months ago and that government not only failed to lower the voting age but consistently refused to legislate to bring about this reform. If we are to accept the word of those Opposition members that they supported this reform while they were in Government, it appears that they had the numbers in the party room to achieve this reform but were unable to count heads. What a golden opportunity these bright men of the Liberal Party missed. They were so closely knit as members of a government that they were unable to ascertain who their friends were and where support for change would come from. Today, I suggest, these Opposition members have been trying to pull the legs of the people of Australia. They will not succeed in hoodwinking the electorate and fooling the youth of this nation. 1 have great admiration for young people and I respect their good judgment. 
I am particularly fond of the young people of the Lilley electorate. I say this because prior to the 1972 Federal election a number of schools in the electorate conducted mock elections and on each occasion the Australian Labor Party was victorious. This indicates the intelligence of the youth in the Lilley electorate, the good judgment that they showed and how they were able to anticipate the final outcome of the election. I suggest that this indicates that these young people are interested in political affairs and keep themselves informed. 
Since the election I have visited many schools in the area at the invitation of the principals and have found that students of today are interested in the future of Australia. They are interested in government and they are keen to learn how government operates. No matter what excuses are made by the honourable members opposite for not lowering the voting age, no matter how much they say and to what extent they tell the people of Australia that they have supported this measure, the cold hard facts are that in government they failed the youth of Australia. They failed it in more ways than one. 
The performance of the past LiberalCountry Party governments has shown not only that they were out of tune with youth but also that they are out of touch with people generally, out of touch with public opinion and out of touch with current trends. I am very much aware that the young people of the nation have an essential contribution to make which I feel will be to our benefit as well as to theirs. I am proud to support a government which is prepared to provide an opportunity for youth to have a say in the affairs of Australia. I firmly believe that the whole of the community has the right to determine the kind of future it wants. 
Looking to the future 1 believe that we should understand the needs, the desires, the ambitions and the hopes of young people. During the last election campaign in my electorate the people in that area who worked on my behalf and on behalf of the Australian Labor Party were predominantly young people who were aware of what was occurring in this great nation of ours and were clamouring for change. We hear suggestions that young people at 18 might not be old enough to vote because they are not aware of what is required, but 1 say that the attitude of the majority of youth today puts the lie to that sort of suggestion. I have sufficient faith in the youth of Australia to believe that it will protect the nation, its people, its environment and its future much more effectively than have conservative governments over the past 23 years. 
Youth has shown through its actions that it is concerned about the environment and its protection and is prepared to act against pollution of our waters and the atmosphere, lt is genuinely concerned about peace in the world and it is deeply interested in the survival of this planet and its people. I suggest to the House that in no era has youth done more to bring these matters to the notice of the world generally than it has during the past few years. I suggest that my confidence in youth is not misplaced when I say that youth of the 1970s and beyond will not be party to subjecting the aged, the sick, the invalid, and the widowed to conditions of poverty as 23 years of conservative government has done. 
Much lip service has been given to the matter of lowering the voting age to 18 years. However, with the exception of Western Australia, only Labor governments have taken the initiative and acted to introduce the necessary legislation to bring about this reform. We have heard honourable members opposite today say that they support this measure. 1 think that everyone in Australia is aware that they had ample opportunity to do something about it. The disqualification of voters because of age by conservatives was consistent with their attitude to adult franchise and falls into a category similar to their opposition to the principle of one vote one value. I believe and anticipate that that principle will be attacked later during a debate in this House. Change is usually opposed by conservatives, but the sweet winds of change are already wafting over this continent and Australians are happily accepting them. 
Perhaps the Opposition is well aware that the young people of today are more politically aware than they were in the past. Looking in retrospect at the opposition to electoral reform - giving the vote to the young people of Australia - and listening to the debate that has taken place today, it appears to me that the defeat of the then Western Australian Government - not a Labor government - after lowering the voting age brought fear of defeat to the Liberal-Country Party governments in other States and in the Federal sphere. They opposed this change and would do nothing about it because they could see that young people supported the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia. That might be the reason that the previous Commonwealth Government was hesitant to move and take action to bring about this just reform. 
Since my election I have been inundated with requests from schools and from students seeking information about political activities. Everyone should realise that young Australians are interested in government. They want the correct answers. They will not fall for the fear propaganda with which successive anti-Labor governments held office for so long. No doubt the opponents of Labor trembled upon seeing the result of last Saturday's election in South Australia in which the Dunstan Australian Labor Party Government was overwhelmingly returned to office. I would like to put on record my congratulations to Don Dunstan and his team for the wonderful victory in South Australia, a State in which a Labor government has given youth the opportunity to express a vote, and where the intelligent youth of Australia has been treated in a similar way to that handed out by other progressive countries. I am confident that when the Victorian election is held in the near future Clyde Holding and his team will have a similar success. 
Everyone should accept the fact - this is finally being accepted by the other side of the House - that the people of Australia are predominantly young. They outnumber older people, that is, people of the age of the majority of honourable members opposite. They have a role to play in the community and a right to be heard. I congratulate the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for his swift action in keeping Labor's promise to give Australian youth a fair go. The step being taken by the Government to lower the voting age is commendable. 
I was somewhat taken aback by what was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  today in a debate which is dealing with what we believe to be a social reform. It appears from what has been said by honourable members opposite that the Opposition now accepts the lowering of the voting age. But even in a debate of this nature reference had to be made about Left wing activity. It was implied that because we want to lower the voting age we want to impress or brainwash young people into following a leftist philosophy. About 18 months ago the 'Readers Digest' published an article by John D. Rockefeller III who is the eldest of the 5 Rockefeller brothers. Those of us who have some knowledge of America and its history would not suggest that John D. Rockefeller III is a leftist or a socialist. 1 heard the 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition refer to protest by youth. Let rae quote very briefly from what was written by John D. Rockefeller III. He said: 
For some time I have been embarked on an adventure of trying to understand the world of the young - and particularly today's student activists. I found that I have a chronological problem, being somewhat past the age of 30, and an image problem, being considerably more square than groovy. But 1 do feel that we communicated. When you show you are really interested in them, young people will not only talk - they will also listen. 
He went on to say: 
But the concept of law and order is meaningless without justice. We must re-examine our assumptions - and our laws. To do so, we must open channels of communication. If we do not - if we think the only answer is to suppress dissent - then the responsibility for violence will hang as heavily on us as it does on those who protest. 
This was not written by a socialist, a leftist or an activist. Finally he said: 
In my judgment, the best choice is simply to be responsive - to trust our young people, to listen to them, to understand them, to let them know that we care deeply. Instead of worrying about how to suppress the youth revolution, we of the older generation should be worrying about how to sustain it. The key to sustaining their idealism is more direct and effective action on the problems about which young people are concerned: the problems of the cities, of the environment, of racial injustice, of irrelevant and outmoded teachings, of overpopulation, of poverty, of war. We must take as seriously as do the young the great values we have inherited. We must be as dedicated as they in fighting injustices. We must have a sense of responsibility, individually and collectively, for resolving the massive problems of society. 
A unique opportunity is before us to combine our age, experience and affluence with the energy and social consciousness of the young. Working together, almost anything is possible. 
I repeat that I was somewhat taken aback to hear in a debate of this nature reference made to the irresponsibility of youth of Australia. I say again that I have every confidence in the youth of this country. I commend this Bill and trust it will receive the support of the House (Quorum formed). 
Is the Minister for Housing aware that the construction of aged persons units has fallen behind the requirement in Queensland? Is he in a position to provide information on arrangements made with the Queensland Government for future construction of these units? 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that a freeway known as the North-West Freeway is proposed for construction in Brisbane as part of a planned freeway system for that city and that its construction will result in more than 700 residences being resumed for removal or demolition? Has the Commonwealth Government power to take any action deemed necessary to protect the rights of residents whose homes and land are to be resumed? If the Government of Australia has such power, will steps be taken to guarantee fair and just compensation to people involved and/or will the introduction of a proper resettlement scheme be considered? 
I support the amendment to the Commonwealth Electoral Act which the Bill now before the House seeks to achieve. Therefore I lend my support to the proposal that will reduce from one-fifth to one-tenth the permissible variation provided for in the Act from the predetermined quotas for electoral enrolment and I also support the other measures which adoption of the Bill will achieve. Dealing with the proposal to reduce the present allowable variation in the quota, I must say that I am not sure that every elector in Australia is fully aware of the method adopted in arriving at a quota for a division or a Federal electorate. Much has been said about this subject, but I do not know that everybody is aware of how this is achieved. Perhaps it is fairly generally well-known that the Constitution makes provision for determining the number of representatives from each of the States, lt is through the adoption of this formula that 45 members currently represent New South Wales, 34 represent Victoria, 18 represent Queensland, and various other numbers represent the other States of Australia. 
However, this debate concerns the Commonwealth Electoral Act, and it is important that relevant provisions of this Act be examined. Section 18 in Part III of this Act lays down that for the purpose of the Act the whole number of electors in each State, as nearly as can be ascertained, shall be divided by the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for the State in order that a quota may be ascertained. Section 19(1.) permits the distribution commissioners to form divisions or electorates the enrolments of which may exceed or fall short of the quota by one-fifth of the quota.Therefore it is quite evident that in a State where the quota for a division is 60,000 it is permissible to have 48,000 electors on the role of one electorate and 72,000 on the role of another in the same State. The amendment being sought by the Bill would permit a variation of only one-tenth above or below the quota. Therefore with a quota of 60,000 for a division the lowest number of electors permitted would be 54,000 and the highest number 66,000. In the main that is what this debate is all about, and it is important that the people of Australia should be aware of that fact. It is important that they be given an opportunity to form an opinion on whether, with an electoral quota of 60,000, the number of electors enrolled in one electorate should be fewer by 24,000 than those enrolled in another electorate in the same State or whether this tolerance should be reduced. My guess is that the average Australian does not accept the present situation and therefore the action of the Government in seeking to amend the Act will be generally supported. 
My support for the change in the Commonwealth Electoral Act which this Bill seeks to achieve is being strengthened as each of the Opposition members contributes to the debate. I have listened intently as they have put forward their reasons for opposing the measure, and I have endeavoured to unearth some degree of logic in the submissions they have made in support of their actions. So far. in my opinion, they have failed to advance one logical argument to substantiate the opposition they so inflexibly maintain. The Opposition suggests that the Government has ulterior motives in seeking amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Let members of the Opposition be assured that the real reason behind the Government's action is to ensure electoral justice for the whole of the electorate of this nation. The Government is seeking to ensure that certain citizens do not have greater influence in government than do others. If the people who elect representatives and through this means thereby collective!  elect Government are to be given their democratic rights, it is of immense importance that the electoral system is a fair one. Whether or not honourable members opposite recognise and accept the fact I submit that an electoral system can encourage or discourage electors' participation. If the system is not regarded as being a fair one, Parliament and what it stands for will lose the respect of the majority. After all elections are for the benefit of the electors, and finally they will see that they have introduced a system which to them provides an adequate means of expressing their views. 
Before it is suggested that my interest may be a personal one, let me point out that currently the electorate represented by me is one which has approximately the correct quota for the State. Therefore I am not seeking to have a greater or smaller number of electors enrolled. Further, because I believe I represent an electorate that has about the quota for Queensland, I am in a position to voice some opinion in regard to the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the variation we are seeking to it. With my contribution to the debate I shall endeavour to be objective in my approach to the Bill and what it seeks. My attitude as an elected representative is that the electoral rights of people of Australia are paramount and these must receive proper consideration if we are to suggest that the electoral system of this nation is a democratic one. 
A broad and thorough coverage of all relevant aspects of the changes being sought has been provided by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech. For my part, it is my intention to deal mainly with the State in which my electorate is situated. 1 am deeply concerned with the system which has permitted the development of an unfair electoral advantage in certain areas of Queensland, and I shall refer to this as 1 progress. The present system lends itself to providing an advantage to some, thereby disadvantaging others. Naturally previous governments, to suit their own ends, have made good use of the system's looseness. The statement by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  that only once since 1949 has the Party gaining the greatest number of votes been unsuccessful in winning the most electorates, 1 believe, was an incorrect one because in 1961 and again in 1969 the votes gained by the Australian Labor Party totalled more than the votes gained by the parties now in Opposition. But of course, at both of those elections, the Opposition parties were then in government. 
I suggest that only those who support the gerrymander - the unfair loading of electorates - will seek to defeat this Bill. Surely it is not valid argument - I have heard this said on several occasions during this debate - that because a provision has been in the Electoral Act for more than 70 years it should remain there. If this is the attitude to change of those in Opposition, there can be no doubt that they will remain in the political wilderness for a long time. The Opposition must realise that the people of Australia are demanding change. In December 1972 the people gave a clear and definite indication of that demand. Members of the Australian Country Party are opposing the change because they have a vested interest in maintaining low electoral enrolments. It appears that they oppose the democratic belief that enrolments for divisions should be as nearly as possible equal. Apparently they believe that the number of electors necessary to form a country electorate should not be the number required by the quota, certainly not the number allowed in excess of the quota, but very definitely a number approximating that permitted below the quota. A perusal of enrolment figures shows that many electorates represented by Country Party members contain the lowest enrolment figures that can be arranged in accordance with provisions of the Electoral Act. Consequently, it appears that Country Party members wish to represent the least number of people. In turn, because of low enrolments in Country Party electorates, the people in country areas have a greater voting power than people in the cities. 
Let me make it clear that, contrary to what previous speakers have stated, there definitely is no animosity on the part of honourable members on this side of the chamber towards people living in the country. On the contrary - I believe figures prove this and 1 hope to show this in the limited time I have available to me - there is a definite animosity on the part of Country Party representatives and those in command of the Country Party machine towards people who live in the cities. If honourable members listen to me, I will explain to them what happened in Brisbane last Saturday as a result of the animosity and the apparent hatred of certain people in Queensland towards people who live in the cities. I hope that members of the Liberal Party will take heed of this because it is extremely important to them. 
 I have noticed that but ] did not like to say anything. I suggest that this type of electorate loading suits the Country Party. It has been their political lifeblood for many years. It is not a good thing for the nation or the people of the country. I do not subscribe - I make no apology for saying this - to a policy which gives country people up to 50 per cent advantage over city people in respect of the value of votes cast. This has been permitted to occur for far too long and, as a representative of a city electorate, I believe that this unfair practice must cease. 
I realise that many city dwellers resident in my electorate do not vote for the Australian Labor Party. This can be said of all electorates throughout the nation. However, I assure these Australian people who are city dwellers, particularly those living in the Lilley electorate, that I shall not be a party to selling them short and downgrading the value of their vote. They have a democratic right to electoral equality. I am somewhat shocked to see the 
Liberal Party falling for the anti-city attitude of the Country Party and succumbing to minority pressure. I am absolutely amazed at the attitude of Liberal members, not because they oppose a move made by a Labor government, but because they apparently are unable to understand that, by bowing to the Country Party, they are destroying their own electoral chances for the future. I believe that members of the Liberal Party who think and look to the future would agree with that statement. 
To provide startling evidence of this. I have only to refer to w'#.at occurred in Queensland last Saturday when, in Brisbane, the opponents of Labor were trounced at the municipal polls. The Australian Labor Party won 20 out of 21 wards in the metropolitan area of Brisbane and had overwhelming victories in other parts of the State at local government polls. The City of Brisbane Act was amended by the Country Party Premier of Queensland - a party that does not have one representative in the metropolitan area of Brisbane - to defeat the Jones administration, an Australian Labor Parry administration. The reaction from the people of Brisbane to this dictatorial act by the Country Party Premier was, as I have said, to return the Jones administration and leave the opponents of Labor with one ward out of 21 wards in the city. The 'Sunday Sun', one of the Sunday newspapers in Brisbane had as a headline: City thumbs its nose at Joh!' Of course, Joh is the Country Party Premier of Queensland. The report went on to say: 
The Government's move to get rid of Clem Jones by ending the separate Lord Mayoral vote in yesterday's City Council election proved a dismal flop. Tha people of Brisbane answered by giving Clem's team the biggest vote triumph in Australian election history. 
The 'Sunday Mail' report on the municipal elections contained the following opening statements: 
Brisbane's massive support for the Clem Jones Australian Labor Party Council team was reflected yesterday in most South-East Queensland and Northern provincial cities. 
I emphasise the word 'cities'. It is clear that in the cities of Queensland there has been a violent reaction by the people against the Country Party Premier and the CountryLiberal Party Government he leads. It must be acknowledged that city people will not sit idly by and allow their rights to be eroded. As one who believes in the 2-party system, I am genuinely concerned that the Liberal Party apparently cannot or will not come to realise that it is withering on the vine because its members will not stand up to minority parties. I say that with every conviction. 
The thinking of Liberal leaders appears to he different from that expressed by the Queensland  President  of the Young Liberal Movement of Australia,  Mr K.  Martin who, on 28th January at a Young Liberal convention held at Surfers Paradise called for a new electoral distribution in Queensland because, in his opinion, the State redistribution of 1972 was completely undemocratic. According to newspaper reports,  Mr Martin  also called on the State Parliamentary Liberal Party to press for a new redistribution, taking more into account the principle of one vote, one value.  Mr Martin  also is reported to have stated that when there is a situation where there is a difference of more than 250 per cent between the number of voters in one electorate and the number in another, there is justification for people to say that Queensland is a  Cinderella  State. He also is reported to have said that State and Federal governments have been bound continually by the wishes of the sectional Country Party. 
Apparently at this convention  Mr Martin  warned against fielding separate Senate teams.  Mr Martin  said that if the 2 parties fielded separate teams the Liberals could be the losers. This is not a member of the Australian Labor Party talking; it is a Young Liberal in Queensland. He expressed the view that the Country Party might outvote the Liberal Party. I do not know  Mr Martin  personally but I readily acknowledge his fear for the future of the Liberal Party. This is why thinking people within the Liberal Party are joining the call for one vote, one value. They can see the necessity to stop the undemocratic march in this nation's politics of the Country Party, whose members comprise 9 per cent of the Parliament. Adoption of policies which permit the gerrymander - the electorate loading and voting manipulation - will not be tolerated by people today. In Queensland, the State Government is a coalition which is controlled by a party which received the minority vote, namely, the Country Party. The people of Queensland have witnessed at State level over the past few years the development of a system of voting at State elections which is heavily loaded in favour of Country Party candidates and, to some extent, of Liberal candidates. Certainly, it is to the disadvantage of Australian Labor Party candidates. 
Let me give just a few examples. At the 1972 State election the Country Party received 20 per cent of the total vote cast in Queensland and won 26 seats; the Liberal Party received just over 22 per cent, which was about 2 per cent more than the Country Party received, and won 21 seats, which was 5 seats fewer; and the Australian Labor Party gained 48 per cent of the total vote and won 33 seats. As a result of the worst gerrymander ever, the Government of Queensland was elected on 42i per cent of the State vote, with 47 seats. Many city people were penalised as a result of this. The Australian Labor Party candidates received approximately  5i  per cent more of the total vote than the combined Country Party and Liberal Party received, but it won 14 seats fewer than the Government parties. A startling lesson is learnt when one looks at the figures. In Queensland it took an average of 13,045 votes to elect an ALP candidate and 6,972 to elect a Country Party candidate. 
I believe that, because of the gerrymander that has taken place in Queensland, because electorate loading has been permitted under sections of the Electoral Act and because there has been an attack on the rights of city people, there has been a reaction. It has been very evident. As I mentioned, it was very evident last Saturday at the municipal election held in Brisbane. I can foresee, as  Mr Martin,  the  President  of the Young Liberals in Queensland, apparently had the foresight to realise, that if the Liberal Party wishes to sit idly by and allow the Country Party voting power to develop to such a degree that one vote in the country is worth 1± or 2 votes in the city there certainly will be a reaction from people living in the cities. I repeat what I said earlier: Although all the people in the cities did not vote for me, I will be standing up as I am today, demanding the rights of the people who live in the cities and demanding that the value of their vote be the same as that of people living in country areas. I certainly support the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I ask the Postmaster-General: Will he consider providing, free of charge, television viewing licences to persons born without hearing and to those who lose their hearing at an early age? 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen reports which indicate that there  is now  a  surplus of 40,000 males over females in Australia? Is the Minister able to indicate whether these reports are correct? If so, will he take steps to adjust the balance of the sexes? 
I support the Bill and I congratulate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  upon the real interest he has shown and the swift action he has taken to tackle the housing problem in Australia. The main approach of the Government towards the need for low rental homes is commendable and is in direct contrast, I suggest, to the attitude of the conservative governments of the past. The desire of the present Minister to take positive action to assist those persons in the community who have been victims of the past Government's lack of concern is recognised. I say this with knowledge of my own electorate and of the community generally. ~ The present Labor Government assumed office at a time when a crisis existed in the housing field. Despite the poppycock and the rubbish that we have listened to this evening every person who has any interest in the housing of Australians knows that this is a fact. Under the previous Government a housing crisis had developed to the stage where in all States there existed long lists of outstanding applications for homes for purchase or rental from State housing commissions. In such circumstances it is difficult to understand the attitude of some of these authorities towards the Federal Government's proposals, lt is difficult also to understand the comments attributed to representatives of certain of the State governments in a country which boasts of progress and prosperity, where massive profits are the objective of the avaricious and where these objectives are achieved by many. 
I suggest that there should be no real poverty. I am extremely pleased that 1 belong to a government that has taken action to overcome the problems of many people in this country. This Government is tackling the dreadful problem of poverty through progressive measures, some of which it has taken already and others which it will take in the future. By providing finance to the States for the purpose of making available low rental accommodation this Government is endeavouring to relieve the plight of those in need. If we are to be condemned for this type of humane approach 1 believe every member of this side of the House would be prepared proudly to accept that sort of condemnation. 1 realise thai misfortunes may befall families or individuals and that circumstances arise as a result of those misfortunes which have a detrimental effect on the standard of living of those concerned. Of course people on a decent income have an opportunity to overcome their problems. But there are people in the community who are on low incomes and who are paying high rentals. They have no chance whatever of overcoming any setback. In fact, they have many problems, I suggest, in making ends meet from day to day. High home rental is an imposition from which there is no escape for them. Therefore, responsible government must come to their aid. 
I have personal knowledge of many instances in my own electorate where rentals being charged by certain landlords have resulted in the standard of living of many families being drastically reduced. Large numbers of people throughout this nation are on low incomes and pay high rents. Because of their circumstances they will never be in a position to save the required deposit for a home. I repeat that the Minister is to be commended for the action he has taken to ensure that these people have a roof over their heads. I suggest that in my home State of Queensland a very high percentage of people fall into this category. 1 base this opinion on the knowledge 1 have of the impact which 2 factors of State government responsibility have in respect of this matter. The first is the cruel action of the Country Party led government in Queensland in removing rent controls after it assumed office in 1957. The second, and this is of extreme importance, I suggest is the fact that Queensland is a low wage State. Because of these factors the Government of Queensland must take a share of the responsibility for the torment, anxiety and feeling of depression which the classification of needy brings to people whose already low income is reduced because of high rental charges. I state this because before the defeat of the Australian Labor Party Government in Queensland in 1957 rents were controlled and the rights of tenants were safeguarded. 
One of the early actions of the Queensland Country-Liberal Party Government after assuming office was to remove rent control and the safeguard which the previous Government had made for tenants. Since these safeguards were abolished certain people in the community have fleeced tenants. Those who were and are still being fleeced have no redress, lt is a case of pay up or get out. This is the situation in Queensland. I have mentioned, of course, that Queensland is a low wage State. We hear a lot of comment from the leaders of the Queensland Government about the activities of the Federal Government, lt appears to me that much of this comment is made to throw a smokescreen around the real problems which exist in Queensland. 
Let us examine the wage structure in the sunny State of Queensland under Country led governments since 1957. The last available figures relating to the percentages of the workforce which receive various levels of wages and salary were published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics in May 1971. The level of workers at the time receiving less than $50 a week was 1 per cent in New South Wales, 0.9 per cent in Victoria and 3.1 per cent in Queensland. So that, on a percentage basis, for every worker in New South Wales who was receiving about $50 or less a week there were 3 people in that unfortunate position in Queensland. For the same period, 8.3 per cent of the work force in New South Wales received less than $60 a week. In Victoria the figure was 9.1 per cent and in Queensland it was 17 per cent, or about double the percentage of the work force of the other eastern States. Those receiving less than $70 a week represented nearly 21 per cent of the work force in New South Wales, 22.5 per cent in Victoria and over 34 per cent in Queensland. When leaders of the Government in Queensland talk about what is occurring in other areas, they could well have a look at the low wage structure that has been permitted to develop in that State. 
People might have been misled because of the advertising prior to the 1972 Federal election. Advertisements appeared in Queensland newspapers stating that Australia was looking for inspiring leadership and suggesting that Queensland had such leadership with its Country Party Premier. I know that that statement upset many Liberals in Queensland and in the rest of Australia; a lot of people were upset by it. I would suggest that while the leadership of the Queensland Premier might be acceptable to the less than 20 per cent of the vote that the Country Party receives in Queensland, from the viewpoint of the workers in that State, they have been led into a situation where they are receiving the lowest wages in Australia, when comparisons are made with the workers of the other States. I mention this fact because it is clear that with low wages and no control over rents, many Queensland families are placed in an extremely invidious position. The plight of these people apparently is not understood by the Queensland Government and, after listening to some of the debate here this evening, it apparently is not understood by some honourable members opposite. If the plight of these people is understood, the expressed attitude of members of the Opposition is not only difficult to understand but also leaves one to wonder just what they think about people who really are in need. 
T have referred to a great degree to the State in which I live because, after all, I have a fair knowledge of what has occurred there. When the suggestion of Commonwealth assistance to the States for low rental homes was being discussed, the Queensland Minister for 
Housing was reported in the Press as saying that he was disappointed with the outcome of the Housing Ministers' conference. It was reported that he claimed that hundreds of Queenslanders will miss out on buying low interest housing commission homes under the new Commonwealth-State housing agreement. One would imagine from these statements that availability of housing commission homes in Queensland is high. One could be forgiven, I suggest, for believing that had this new agreement not been entered into, hundreds of Queenslanders would have been provided with homes for purchase and that Queenslanders who wished to rent a home would have their requirements fulfilled. However, when the position in Queensland is investigated it is quickly discovered that not merely hundreds but thousands of Queenslanders have made applications without success for homes to rent and this has been going on over many years. 
It is estimated that outstanding applications for homes to rent from the Queensland Housing Commission rose from 4,900 for the year ended 1971 to 5,504 for the year ended 1972. This represents an increase of 604 outstanding applications or an increase of over 12 per cent. Apart from New South Wales, where there was an increase in outstanding applications for homes for rental, Queensland was the only State where outstanding applications increased and in that State the increase was alarming. Looking at the housing problem of Australia - and I listened this evening while one honourable member opposite spoke about the great job that the previous Government had done in regard to housing - at the end of June 1972 there were with the State housing authorities over 93,000 outstanding applications for homes. What a marvellous record for a government that claims that it did such a good job in providing homes for Australian people! Two-thirds of those applications were for homes for rental. 
I am at a loss to understand the great fuss that certain State governments have made about accepting the Federal Government's offers to provide assistance. I would have thought that the Queensland Minister for Housing, for instance, would have welcomed an opportunity to provide homes at low rental to some of the 5,500 applicants who have been unable to acquire a home to rent in Queensland. If the Minister is not aware of trends in Queensland, I suggest that he consults the 
Housing Quarterly' and June 1972, which reported, among other things: 
Rental houses continued in short supply throughout the State in the June quarter; demand for rental flats increased . . .  lt went on: 
The Queensland Housing Commission continued to receive a strong Row of applications for rental accommodation. 
Turning to the position in New South Wales, according to the information contained in the Housing Quarterly' rental accommodation continued in strong demand in Sydney. There was a slight fall in demand in Victoria, partly due to high rents being charged. There was a short supply of medium priced rental accommodation in Tasmania, and in Western Australia and South Australia there was a slight improvement in availability of this type of accommodation. 
It is evident that there is an urgent need to tackle the problem of lack of rental accommodation in Australia, lt is abundantly clear that in Australia we have a housing problem. In some States the position is alarming. In New South Wales it has been reported that the inability of the State Housing Commission to compete with private developers for housing blocks has led to a crisis point situation developing. For the year ended 30th June 1972, approvals for the construction of new government houses and flats was down 28 per cent on the figures for the previous year. Yet honourable members opposite talk about the great record in housing of the previous Government and how the Labor Government which has been in office only a few months has been tardy in doing something in this field. The  Chairman  of the New South Wales Housing Commission is reported as having publicly declared that the Commission was in a hopeless position and that if a solution was not found it eventually would go out of business. That statement must reflect on the capability of the New South Wales Government to manage its housing affairs. As a matter of fact, the New South Wales Government has come under attack because of its incompetence in handling the important responsibility of housing. In an unprecedented move made late in July 1972, the New South Wales Liberal Cabinet gagged the New South Wales Minister for Housing because he had the temerity to express concern about the plight of low income earners who were seeking housing accommodation. In Victoria, there is a definite lack of accommodation for people on low incomes. However, there has been reported opposition to the Federal Government's humane endeavour to assist these needy people. The Federal Labor Government is prepared to grapple with the housing problem which exists in this nation. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing he dealt with the terms of the Bill. In the limited time I have available, I will not go into detail, but 1 should like to refer to a statement made by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  He referred to this humane attitude of the Federal Labor Government and its actions in endeavouring to provide low rental homes for needy people as being an example of some political ideology, suggesting that the socialist attitude was one which demanded that a Labor government should do something about this problem. That is not a bad attitude. I think it is a wonderful tiling to be humane and to care about one's fellow men. Not only in Australia, of course, but also in Britain - I do not think the Government of Britain is a socialist government at the present time - action has been taken to assist people in need. To overcome the housing shortage aggravated by 2 world wars, Britain subsidised new buildings and introduced controlled rents to prevent exploitation of the shortage. Instead of subsidising buildings Britain decided to subsidise the tenants. That is exactly, I suppose, what we are trying to do here. This is the type of action that the Bill suggests. To this end the British Government introduced fair rent1! - that is, the likely market rent that a dwelling could command if supply and demand were roughly equal in a particular area - for all tenants who could afford them. The British Government provided a rent rebate or allowance for those who could not afford them and larger subsidies for local authorities with the worst housing problems. 
The United States of America - I do not think anybody would suggest that the United States is a socialist country - has a program of assistance for rental and co-operative housing for lower income families. In the United States of America it is recognised that people on low incomes should be assisted in this way, and a scheme has been devised by which the lower rental families are subsidised. In 1971, the Canadian Government-financed loan company, the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, was seeking proposals from builders and developers for the construction, ownership and operation of rental housing for low income families in 26 centres in Canada. Loans might be up to 95 per cent of the required amount, with repayments over 50 years and an interest rate of 7i per cent. The financing arrangements and the rentals agreed between the Corporation and the builders and developers would provide rental accommodation at below market prices for low income families. 
In the limited time available to me I have been able to refer to Britain, the United States of America and Canada, where the governments have done something about this problem. I am pleased to be a supporter of a government which, in 1973, is prepared to do something to catch up the lag that successive conservative governments allowed to develop in the field of bousing. I again congratulate the Minister for Housing and 1 sincerely hope that this Bill will have the support of every honourable member of this House. 
Now that all American soldiers have been withdrawn from Vietnam and peace there is slowly becoming a reality, most Australians are likely to breathe a sigh of relief and not worry any more about what goes on there. I hope that Australians will not forget about Vietnam, because a legacy of foreign involvement still remains after the troops have left. I refer to the political prisoners still in South Vietnamese gaols. No one knows how many political prisoners are kept in South Vietnamese gaols but some reports have suggested that there may be up to 300,000 imprisoned for political offences by the present and previous South Vietnamese governments. Forty thousand were arrested within a few weeks, according to  President  Thieu's Press secretary in a statement made on 8 November last year. Many of them would be neutralists or communist sympathisers but many are young students and workers imprisoned because they have dared to speak out against aspects of the present regime or who merely spoke out in the name of God and humanity against the way the war in Vietnam was being waged. 
 Of course honourable members opposite believe that communists are not human beings. I am making a plea particularly on behalf of students and young people who have been gaoled in South Vietnam by the authorities. 
 Anybody who is not a Liberal happens to be a communist, in the eyes of some people. Let me mention by way of example the saturation bombing, the removal of peasants from their traditional homes, the effects of the war on the Vietnamese people themselves, the degradation, the refugees and the children orphaned by the war. The arbitrary arrest and imprisonment of many political prisoners was made easier by the new constitution pushed through the Vietnamese Parliament by  President  Thieu. The constitution which described communists and procommunist neutralists as persons who commit acts of propaganda for an incitement of neutralism could have been and was applied so sweepingly that many thousands of Vietnamese - many of them often by mistake - who would never regard themselves as even communist sympathisers were gaoled as political prisoners. I suggest that if they are ever released their political ideas might have changed somewhat. 
Another disturbing aspect about these political prisoners is that, with the signing of the ceasefire settlement, many of them are not being freed. This was meant to be. part of the agreement between North and South Vietnam.  President  Thieu's Government is doing this by a massive reclassification of political offenders. By this measure thousands of gaoled antiThieu politicians, students and intellectuals are bypassed in any mass release of political prisoners. Alternatively, the Government has been recharging political prisoners with criminal offences and even reclassifying criminals as political prisoners so that they can be traded off as such. We have heard a lot recently in the papers and on television about the treatment of American prisoners of war, including tales of torture, starvation and ill treatment generally. This sort of thing seems to have been matched by the South Vietnamese in their treatment of political prisoners. According to a bulletin from the Young Christian Workers of South Vietnam, the following forms of torture have been applied specifically to political prisoners: Intense beating of the soles of the feet, legs and chest; electric shock; soapy water, dirty oil and garbage forced into their mouths provoking vomiting through the nose; periods in water filled metal tanks in which they are struck. Women and girls have received special attention, from being raped to the insertion of Coke bottles and live eels in the genital organs. To these physical tortures are added the tortures of humiliating persons in order to destroy the human element in them. 
Some American companies have even profited from the treatment and torture of prisoners. They have supplied - for a good price, of course - cages in which prisoners are kept and tortured. The American Govern ment's aid program also has provided many millions of dollars to expand and renovate South Vietnamese prisons and detention centres and to provide them with technical resources. According to Michael T. Klare in his book War Without End', the United States financed the relocation of thousands of political prisoners from mainland gaols to the prison island of Con Son, the site of the notorious tiger cage cells. After 2 United States Congressmen visited the inhuman tiger cages in 1970 more American money was used to build 288 new isolation cells at Con Son. The torturing and ill treatment of political prisoners is abhorrent, whatever side practices it, and must be condemned by all. 
In the general joy over the release of the American prisoners of war we must not forget the plight of the many thousands of political prisoners still rotting in South Vietnamese gaols. Unlike the previous Government with its cynical 'don't care' attitude, the new Labor Government promptly protested against the continued bombing of North Vietnam. Surely we should also be calling for the release of all political prisoners in South Vietnam as soon as possible and for humane treatment for those who remain imprisoned. 
And in North Vietnam, certainly - any political prisoners held in gaol. 
If I had one like yours I would have been hiding it for a long time. We fought for democracy in South Vietnam, and young Australians who were not given a democratic right in choosing to fight that cause died there. We should continue our fight for a democratic South Vietnam by calling for the continued release of political prisoners. The other evening my colleague the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  made a special plea for those young Christian students who have been imprisoned in South Vietnam - not communists but political prisoners - who are being held there against their will and are being tortured. 1 think that is a good attitude and I join with him in asking for the release of those people. 
I support the Bill and in doing so I pay a tribute to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for the effort he is making to bring peace to Australian industry. When he was shadow Minister for Labour the present Minister freely expressed his views of opposition to unreal conciliation and arbitration laws and the unrest which these laws brought to industry in Australia. It is apparent that as Minister for Labour he has applied his knowledge of industrial affairs and he has worked tirelessly to improve the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He has done a good job for Australia and the Australian people despite the bleating of members of the Opposition in this Parliament. 
The approach of the Labor Government to industrial matters and its sincere endeavours to bring about industrial peace are welcome changes in government attitude. It is clearly the sort of attitude Australian people respect and, I believe, accept. It is in direct contrast with the dictatorial and muddling policies of the previous Government, The great difference in this Government's administration is that the Ministers and the members of the Labor Government possess a wealth of knowledge of the trade union movement. They know that industrial relations can and should be improved. The previous Government had no practical knowledge in this field. As  a  result the previous Government was responsible for fostering bad industrial relations. This proved to be to the detriment of the nation. 
I do not speak in this debate as a theorist but as a person who was a trade union official for 14 years. I have knowledge of how industrial law operates and of how it has operated to the detriment of the work force and trade unionists in Australia and of how it has been responsible for a lot of industrial unrest in Australia. Over a period of years the Liberal Party-Country Party Governments relied on industrial laws which were directed against workers and industry to deprive workers of justice in the areas of wages and conditions. Ministers of those Governments exhibited little or no understanding of the work force. When disputes arose they mistakenly believed that Australian men and women in industry could be stood over through the agency of savage penal provisions. How bad was their judgment of the average Australian worker. The Government did nothing to prevent disputes. Therefore they did nothing to tackle the problems which caused industrial unrest. 
Their policy was to rely on the big stick and to wield it against members of the trade union movement in an attempt to bludgeon them into submission. 
Any Government with such an approach shows its lack of understanding of the Australian people. Liberal Party-Country Party Governments mistakenly believed that at all times they were assisting employers in their endeavours. However, history has shown that all employers were not appreciative of those Government's actions. The great body of Australian employers found themselves embarrassed, I would suggest, by the previous Government's policies and its interference in industrial affairs. I was rather interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  just a little while ago making reference to the public interest. An article appeared in the 'Australian' of 2nd August 1972 in which it was stated that major oil refineries had finally decided that the cost to the industry of going along with the McMahon Goverment's election strategy of industrial confrontation was far too high a price for the companies to pay. The article stated: 
Despite pressure applied to the industry by  Mr McMahon  not to enter meaningful negotiations with the unions over the Federal oil industry agreement, the companies had capitulated. 
The wonder is that they did not see where their long term interests lay much earlier in the dispute. 
It would have been rather amusing if it were not so serious to hear the Deputy Leader of the Opposition talk about public interest. In fact, whilst in government the Opposition, merely as a means of endeavouring to bring about some confrontation with the trade unions and hoping to gain electoral support, apparently was prepared to bring about a situation in which industrial unrest was encouraged. 
I know that the truth sometimes is a little difficult to accept. Many employer organisations prefer to negotiate with trade union representatives. They prefer a system that permits agreements to be reached between the parties associated with the industry. Members of the Opposition spoke about getting advice from people in industry. Somebody in the Opposition mentioned this morning that this Government had not consulted all people in the industry. I am personally aware of one employer group in Bris bane whose spokesman claimed that, over the years, the previous Government had no lines of communication with its members or its association. As a matter of fact, during discussions with representatives of this employer group, one of my parliamentary colleagues and I were told that they welcomed the attitude of the Labor Government because we were prepared to listen to suggestions and have discussions with them. 
Many suggestions have been made during the debate on this Bill. It has been suggested that people on award wages will be at a distinct disadvantage when compared to workers whose unions are able to negotiate with employers for over-award payments. This was one of the arguments that was put forward in opposition to the Bill which is currently before this House. This may be true to a point However, I think it must be understood that tribunals assessing wage entitlements of the former group of employees take into consideration the wages paid in other sections of industries where over-award payments certainly are agreed to and recognised. 
I have listened to honourable members opposite speaking on this Bill and have heard them say mat they are concerned at the power to be given to trade unions, that the Government Bill ignores the effects of industrial unrest and seeks to give unions carte blanche to become involved in industrial disputes and that no decision could be effective unless it is enforceable. Of course, to enforce a decision it is claimed that provision must be made for penalties in the Act. I believe that, if the Opposition or any group of its supporters claims that in order to bring about a situation where we have peace in industry we must have penal clauses in the respective industrial Acts, we should have a look at their record when they were in government. I have consulted the Year Book' and extracted information which is provided and which relates to the past 3 years. I examined the record of the previous Government in the field of industrial affairs. After all, if honourable members opposite tell the Labor Government that this progressive &lt; move being made by the Government is not good for the nation, we should judge them on their efforts and see what sort of industrial peace they were able to bring to this country. , I found that in 1969 there were 1,957,957 working days - just under 2 million working days - lost because of industrial disputes. That is a pretty high figure. In 1970, a year later, under a Liberal-Country Party government, the figure had risen to 2,393,700. In 1971 I found that the working days lost because of industrial disputes rose to 3,068,600. So, there was an increase in the loss of working days due to industrial unrest in Australia in 2 years of almost 40 per cent. 
That is the history of the Liberal-Country Party Government at a time when the Act contained penal clauses by which they are telling the people of Australia and this Government that they could bring about industrial peace. Why did the previous Government not do something about it? I submit that penal clauses within any industrial Act do nothing to bring about industrial peace. On the contrary, they do nothing but bring about industrial unrest because I repeat that the workers of this country will not be bludgeoned into submission through the agency of penal clauses in an Act. One would think, listening to some honourable members opposite who have spoken here today, that they have an inveterate hatred of the Australian worker. Of course, Government supporters understand and realise the wonderful job that the Australian worker does in the progress and prosperity of this country and I for one as a Government supporter throw back the words of honourable members opposite who seek to degrade the Australian worker- the trade unionist. I have the greatest admiration for these people because it is the work force of this country - the trade unionists - which is responsible for the progress of our country. It is responsible for a better Australia and I for one will not accept some of the comments which have been made here today. (Quorum formed.) 
It is very evident that some members of the Opposition do not like the. truth being told about their record in government in regard to maintaining industrial peace; they do not want to hear the truth. It is rather strange, considering the importance of the Bill which is before the House, to find that most members of the Opposition have been out of the chamber during the debate. As a matter of fact, there are not too many members of the Liberal Party in the chamber at present; there are only four or five of them. They talk about wasting time and try to tell the Australian people that the Government is not giving the Opposition a fair deal in respect of debating time. Honourable members opposite waste time that could be taken up by genuine debate and on 2 occasions when a division has been called we have found that one-third of the members of the Opposition Parties did not come into the chamber. So, their sincerity in respect of some of the claims they have made must be questioned. 1 refer now to the amalgamation of unions. An honourable member opposite - I think it was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  - mentioned earlier that two out of 1,000 members of a union could bring about a situation where amalgamation of unions could result. Of course, that was taking the question a little too far. One could apply the same, sort of theory, I suppose, to the election of trade union officials; two out of 1,000 members could also elect a general secretary or any other officer. However, this does not occur. I was mentioning before the recent interruption the record of the previous government in industrial matters. I can recall no occasion during my lifetime when a member of a government has asked a foreign firm to fight workers of this country in an endeavour to deprive them of industrial justice in respect of conditions of employment. As all Australians know, this occurred about June last year when the Acting Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  called on the assistance of several international firms to oppose union demands for a 35 hour working week. The Opposition talks about trying to develop good industrial relations but when it was in government a Minister, whom we believe should have been a responsible Minister, was calling on foreign firms to fight Australian workers in an endeavour to deprive the workers of improved conditions of employment. The Opposition should hang its head in shame. 
By its actions the previous Government during its term of office was developing opposition to the arbitration system which it claims now it wants upheld. It was developing a lack of respect for the system among those who were involved with it on both the employer and employee side. Judging from the opinions so far expressed in this debate by Opposition speakers, there is a hatred of trade unions. This is very much apparent. While that sort of attitude is in the minds of people who should adopt a responsible role we cannot expect to have peace in industry. The Opposition appears to believe that Australian men and women who are trade unionists and workers in industry have only one role on this planet and that is to do as they are bid by certain people, with no say in the industry in which they are employed and apparently with no right to seek improvements in wages and conditions. Under the stewardship of the previous Government we witnessed opposition by that Government to applications to the national wage case hearings. The interference of that government in those proceedings showed its contempt for the Australian workers. We saw attempts being made to influence the thinking of this Commonwealth wage fixing tribunal against workers claims. In 1972 we had, on the one hand, the previous Government having an official submission made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case and, on the other hand, the then Prime Minister making a statement that the Government wanted the minimum wage to be increased significantly by the Commission. This statement fooled no one. 
On the question of amalgamation, contrary to the claims by Opposition speakers, fewer unions will mean fewer disputes, better understanding and a higher standard of union management. Anybody who thinks about that proposition must agree with it. Surely a better system will develop with fewer unions being responsible for award matters. The present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on 2nd March 1972 agreed that there are many advantages which could accrue from amalgamation but apparently he has changed his mind in the interim. At that time he said one thing but, apparently meant another because legislation introduced following that statement did nothing to assist amalgamation. The present Government's intention to facilitate union amalgamations shows a desire to permit unions whose members seek amalgamation to make a decision and thereby to run their own affairs. I repeat that fewer unions and a higher standard of representation of unionists will result in better industrial relations in this country. Much emphasis has been placed on the removal of penalties. As a former trade union official, I know that penalties imposed on unions do nothing to prevent disputes. After ali, the fine generally is paid after the dispute is won. It is rather significant that the Opposition is so intent now on having penalties remain in the Act but while it was in government it did nothing to collect the fines that were imposed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have listened and heard a lot of emotional talk by members of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That clauses 51 to 55 be agreed to. 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen reports of the meeting of Australian and State Ministers for Immigration which was held in Brisbane last Friday? Are they correct in saying that the States favour a change in the present level of immigration? Was there any disagreement on this matter? Did anyone at that meeting suggest seceding? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is the Government participating in a survey in Queensland in regard to Queensland railways? If so, what can Brisbane expect as a result of the. survey? Could the Minister give details of Commonwealth assistance for upgrading the urban railways? 
I support the Bill. I thought that ail honourable members would have taken a similar attitude towards it, firstly, because what is being sought in the terms of the Bill is in line with the proposals which appeared to me to be agreed to by the previous Government and, secondly, because honourable members opposite are supposed to believe in competition between business rivals. How often have we in this country heard brave statements, particularly from the Liberal Party and its supporters, about the need for competition. However, whilst they appear to believe in competition, when some instrumentality has been able to put forward real competition in the past private enterprise has been protected by the government in office. It appears that, according to them, in the field of air transport competition the private airline company should receive the additional cream in an area in which the people's airline should not be permitted to participate. 
The views of the previous 2 speakers from the. other side of the House appeared to me to be in contrast with the views expressed by  Sir Peter  Abeles who is a director of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. In the 'Australian' newspaper today he is reported as saying that he could see nothing sinister in the Federal Government's plans to widen the powers of Trans-Australia Airlines. The article goes on to express the view that this appears to be a progressive move. Despite some of the opinions that have been expressed, I am confident that the Government is not seeking an advantage for TAA over the other airline. 1 believe that the proposed policy which will be applied to TAA's extended activities will stringently relate these activities to its airline business and will prevent them from proving to be an advantage for TAA over Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This surely can be interpreted only as a fair approach and one which deserves commendation - not condemnation, which appears to be the attitude of honourable members opposite here today. 
The Government is making a genuine endeavour to provide an opportunity for TAA to compete on an equal footing with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. There is no intention of legislating to give TAA an unfair advantage, nor is the Government attempting to threaten other commercial enterprises in the fields of road transport and accommodation. The people whom we believe are important - the people of Australia - are the ones who will benefit from the proposals being put forward by the Government. For far too long, I submit, there have been advantages made available to Ansett which have provided beneficial results and which have reacted against the interests of TAA. For example, in 1960 an exercise took place which went under the redoubtable title of 'an exchange agreement'. At that time AnsettANA took over 3 Viscount aircraft from TAA and in return handed over 2 DC6 aircraft. According to the then Minister for Civil Aviation the values accepted by the operators were £560,360 for the 2 DC6 compared with an amount of £677,700 for the 3 Viscount aircraft. From that deal it can be seen that Ansett came out in front by about $250,000. It appeared to be a good business deal for Ansett-ANA at the time and one which was not so good for TAA. That is only one instance of action which was taken by the previous Government which provided an advantage to the private airline, an advantage which as I have stated reacted against the interests of TAA, the people's airline. 
Over a period of years we have witnessed many actions which have resulted in favourable treatment being given to Ansett Transport Industries. This has resulted in the revenue earned by that company exceeding the earnings of TAA. The returns for 1971-72 show a total income of $208m for Ansett Transport Industries while TAA earned $120m. In airline revenue alone Ansett Transport Industries' income of $150m exceeded TAA's income by 25 per cent. I submit that this was not because of any better management provided by Ansett Transport Industries but because of the operational advantages which governments permitted. The dedicated people who manage and those who operate TAA have done a magnificent job at times against very heavy odds. Given an opportunity to conduct an expanded operation of business activity these people will provide the nation with an example of what can be achieved through fair competition. 1 repeat that I am a little astounded to hear some of the honourable members opposite objecting to competition. I have heard over many years many people of Liberal Party persuasions say that we must have competition, that it does some wonderful things for the country; it brings down prices and it provides better services. For that reason it is somewhat bewildering to find that when an opportunity is provided to give competition in the airline field there is opposition to the move. 
There has in recent times been in circulation much propaganda concerning TAA not paying rates and taxes. I believe that honourable members opposite know that that is not correct. While there is no legal obligation for TAA to pay certain rates and charges the practice has been for TAA in fact to pay these in some way. One would only have to examine the annual reports of TAA to see that this is correct. Since this Bill was proposed parliamentary representatives have been contacted by Flag Motels Ltd through telegrams and letters. I received a telegram pointing out that there was some concern in the minds of the people conducting Flag Motor Inns, and that they were protesting against the terms of the proposed Australian National Airlines Bill giving Trans-Australia Airlines unfair powers of competition. As I continue I hope to show that there is no desire by the Government to gain any unfair advantage whatever for TAA. However, I was wondering whether the people associated with Flag Motor Inns and others who are so much opposed to the expansion of the Australian people's airline - TAA - and who now come to the defence of private enterprise had the same concern when means were made available to Ansett Airlines of Australia and others to expand and whether they then forwarded telegrams and made protests about that. 
On the question of business acumen, it will be recalled that about one year ago when the takeover battle by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was in progress, ATI shares were valued at $1.10. By majority the shareholders rejected a proposal for a takeover, and there can be no doubt that they took notice of the advice, presumably given by  Sir Reginald  Ansett, not to sell. I believe the current value of ATI shares is 71c. I suppose the shareholders can be excused for believing that they have suffered a loss in the value of their shares because they took the advice of this business leader at that time, advice which now appears to have been very bad. One may well ask why, in 1973, there is so much opposition from honourable members on the other side of the House to the Government's action which will permit TAA to compete on a very fair basis. One may well ask whether they have changed their minds since the latter part of 1972. If they have not, it appears either that the previous Government provided false information to TAA and the nation or that at least some honourable members opposite did not support what the previous Minister for Civil Aviation had promised. In August 1972 the former Minister for Civil Aviation said: 
The Government has decided further to give TAA greater opportunity to undertake outside engineering works, including Government contracts, and to enter into mutually beneficial arrangements with surface transport carriers and hotel/motel operators. This is designed to improve Trans-Australia Airlines ability to continue to compete effectively, especially now that it faces additional competition. 
Those remarks of the previous Minister for Civil Aviation were important at that time to the airline operators in this country, particularly to Trans-Australia Airlines, and of extreme importance to the Parliament and consequently to the nation. I make this claim because the former Government was in the process of introducing an airlines Bill. In the Senate on 31 October 1972, not very long after that first statement was made, the following statement is attributed to the then Minister for Civil Aviation: 
The Government has recognised the need to widen TAA's base. It has undertaken to legislate accordingly in the next session of the Parliament. I have mentioned that I have presented to the Senate on 29 August 1972 a comprehensive White Paper on civil aviation policy. This is not done very often in the Australian Parliament, but I have regarded it as a useful way to proceed in regard to civil aviation. I have done this on more than one occasion. The purpose of this Paper was to give the Parliament and the Australian community an opportunity to examine the relevant facts before the legislation came forward or before the issues were decided. 
It appears that not only on 29 August but also on 31 October 1972, admittedly in the dying stages of the last Parliament, the former Minister for Civil Aviation made statements explaining that TAA's base of activity was to be expanded. Of course, that was the purpose of the promise that was made. 
As I stated earlier, TAA has first class administrative officers and, generally, its personnel are dedicated and efficient. Its record proves the truth of this statement beyond any doubt. I suggest that, had the Government in 1972 not provided some incentives for future expansion of TAA's operation, it would have been politically embarrassed towards the close of the last Parliament when introducing its Australian National Airlines Bill. The previous Government - I am sure that most honourable members here and many people throughout this nation will recall this - pushed that legislation through towards the end of the last Parliament, only a few short months before the new Parliament met early this year. By taking that action, it extended the agreement from 31 December 1977 to 31 December 1982. At that time, the action, taken virtually at the end of the last Parliament, was described by a Labor member as being 'typical of handouts the Government gives to its friends'. 
With the knowledge of the competent administrative officers of TAA, I for one cannot imagine that an agreement would have been reached unless, as I stated earlier, some incentives had been provided for expansion in the future. Therefore, I expect that this is why the Minister at the time gave assurances to Parliament and to the people that certain additional operational activities would be entered into by TAA. The present Government is taking steps to see that the pledge that was given is not departed from. If some honourable members opposite wish to welsh on the pledge of a Minister of the previous Liberal Government, given only 8 months ago, that is their business. I support the Bill as I believe that the nation will benefit from the action that the Government proposes. 
I listened to the speech of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who took the Parliament and those people of Australia who are listening to the broadcast of this parliamentary debate on a trip. He had the Government taking over vineyards and poker machines, manufacturing motor vehicle tyres and expanding and breaking out into various fields of industry. I submit that that sort of submission to this Parliament and to the people of Australia from an honourable member who should know better not only is getting away from what the Bill is all about but also is a means of endeavouring to pull the wool over the eyes of the people of Australia and to instill into the minds of the people fears about what this Government will do. Unforunately, for far too long those have been the tactics of some people who are opposed to the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party. But, fortunately, we have found that, by and large, the average Australian today is a wake-up to the tactics of people who want to instil fear into his mind. 
There is nothing to fear from any legislation an Australian Labor government puts forward in any (field because our policies are aimed at giving a better deal for this nation and its people and providing, particularly to the efficient instrumentalities within this nation such as TAA, the opportunity to compete and to provide better working conditions and services to the people in order to make this country of ours a better place in which to live. I do not accept the type of propaganda which has been expounded here by people who should know better. I can point, as can any member of this chamber if he is honest, to legislation which has been passed by Labor governments, not only in this session but also by previous Labor governments, and which has lifted the standards of the people of this country and certainly has done much for the progress of Australia. I have not been here for very long, but I advise people who should know better not to get into this habit of trying to introduce side issues and to tell fairy stories to the people of Australia, because the people are too intelligent to fall for that line. I certainly support the Bill. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a reported critical statement attributed to the principal of Nudgee College, Brisbane, and relating to the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission? Is there any substance in the criticism attributed to this college principal? 
I, too, am concerned about rights. The Brisbane Courier-Mail' yesterday revealed what appears to be another tragic example of the stirling of free speech in Queensland under the Country Party-Liberal coalition Government. It seems that the highly respected General Medical Superintendent of the Royal Brisbane Hospital, Doctor A. F. Knyvett, had to retract statements he had been reported as making only a few days earlier. Queenslanders are suggesting that the retraction was at the request of the Minister for Health,  Mr Tooth,  a man who apparently cannot bear to hear the truth about the discredited system for which he is responsible. In an internal memorandum  Dr Knyvett  described in great detail some of the defects he saw present in the Royal Brisbane Hospital. These were wide ranging. 
He pointed out that in a 1,000-bed hospital only 3 relatively junior doctors were available from midnight to 8.30 a.m. He also mentioned that people had to wait for long periods at the casualty department without being seen. The picture that was painted of deficiencies and the consequences of those deficiencies is quite terrible. It suggests a deterioriation in the standard of health care in Brisbane's leading hospital. One would have thought that  Mr Tooth,  as the Health Minister, would have moved quickly to rectify this potentially dangerous situation, especially the lack of staff at night. But instead he organised what appears to be a witch hunt. Following this he denied the allegations and then tried to explain them away. It is not as though these conditions were unexpected or new developments. Anyone concerned with the Queensland hospital system has been disturbed for years about the decline in facilities provided in our free hospitals. This is in no way reflects on the staff of those hospitals. They have done the best they can do under the most discouraging conditions. I pay tribute to the medical and nursing staff of these hospitals in Queensland. They have certainly done a wonderful job against overwhelming odds on some occasions. 
The basic fact is that hospitals need more money.  Dr Knyvett  said in his annual report in 1971: 
One must be pardoned for being dismal sometimes about the future of our hospitals. The gap between what needs to be done and what can bo done with present finances seems to be widening rather than narrowing. 
Maintenance expenditure per bed by the Queensland Government on its free public wards would have to increase by 40 per cent to equal the Australian average. The Queensland Government's expenditure in this area is the worst by far in the Commonwealth. To bring our free public ward hospital services up to the average standard of other States, the Queensland Government would have to provide an extra $2 for every $5 it currently spends, that is, an increase in annual expenditure of $20m. This is far beyond the resources of the Queensland Government. The basic problem is that the hospitals might be called free' but they are not free at all. When money is spent in providing a free hospital system this means that it cannot be spent in some other area of Government expenditure.  Mr Tooth  of the Queensland Government knows this. Yet when deficiencies are pointed out by the people best informed to know the truth, that is, the medical superintendent and the staff of the hospital,  Mr Tooth  intervenes and apparently endeavours to silence these people. 

 Mr Tom Burns, the Labor member for Lytton in Queensland and Labor's shadow Minister for Health in the State Parliament, painted out that  Mr Tooth  did not even deny the shortcomings, inadequacies and problems outlined by  Dr Knyvett.  What he said was that they were confidential, and neither patients nor the public should know about them. The staff of Queensland's hospitals must be given freedom of expression to state grievances and point out difficulties in the system to the public without having public service restrictions imposed upon them. If they do not point out the problems nothing will ever be done to improve the system in Queensland. The Queensland Government is not entirely ignorant of conditions in its hospitals.  Dr Crawford,  a Liberal member of the Queensland Parliament, has pointed out time and again deficiencies in the system and shown that improvements are necessary. But unfortunately he is the only voice in the Liberal wilderness, and  Mr Tooth  chooses not to hear his voice. 
The basic problem of the Royal Brisbane Hospital and some of the other hospitals in Queensland is really one of deficiencies. Queensland hospitals urgently need more money. Fortunately, with the Labor Government presently in office in Canberra they will get this money. Instead of penalising our free public hospitals, as the Liberals did by withholding money for hospitals from the Grants 
Commission, the Labor Government will give the Queensland hospitals an extra $30m under the proposals of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. Public hospitals will get a new deal from us. Instead of a measly 82 a day bed subsidy to public hospitals we will be giving them a subsidy of $13 a day or more to improve public facilities and we will be meeting 50 per cent of the running costs of the public hospitals. I wanted to raise this matter because it is important for this Parliament and certainly important to the people of Queensland that they are informed of what Labor's policy will be. 
There will be some opposition to our health plan and a lot of false propaganda will be levelled against it but I am confident that the people of Queensland, with knowledge of the finance that will be made available by this Government to Queensland, will fully support our plan. 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware that there is considerable anxiety among applicants for positions as multi-lingual welfare officers with the Department of Immigration at the delay in finalising the appointments? Will the Minister take action to finalise the appointments without further delay so that the additional much needed services to migrants can be provided and the expectant applicants can have their uncertainty ended? 
(Quorum formed)  -  I rise to oppose the amendment put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I have not known the Leader for the Opposition for very long. 1 met him only after I came to this place. I have no doubt that he has certain qualities, but I must confess that until this evening I did not realise that he was such a comedian. He even succeeded in making members of his own Party laugh and that is the first time some of them have laughed since 2 December last year. The Leader of the Opposition would have to be joking, of course, with some of the statements he made here this evening. As I have some knowledge of what is occuring in Queensland it is easy for me to understand the attitude of the Leader of the Liberal Party. I feel that he has a definite fear of the Country Party's activities in Queensland and perhaps he has good reason to feel this way. The Democratic Labor Party in Queensland - in Brisbane anyway - is distributing a paper called "The Democrat'. In an edition that was made available to me is reference to the size of the new party - this will be the party when the Country Party and the DLP amalgamate - and it appears that if the percentage of votes is considered in Queensland it will have 30.4 per cent of the vote against the Liberal Party's 25.4 per cent of the vote. No doubt the Leader of the Opposition has read this paper. A passage from this document put out by the DLP, the party that will amalgamate with the Country Party in Queensland, states: 
Doug Anthony as leader of the new Party would have increased influence over the Liberals because the new Party vote (i.e. the Democratic Labor Party in 1972) had decided 23 of the 38 Liberal seats in the House of Representatives including half of the 'Shadow Cabinet' (Snedden, Lynch, Fraser, Chipp, Bowen and Killen). 
The party is, in effect, nominating the people which it believes  Mr Anthony,  as Leader of the Country Party, will be able to influence in the Liberal Party. 
It has a lot to do with it. The Leader of the Opposition this evening made remarks which seemed to be levelled at pandering to the Country Party and to the country voter. I mentioned earlier that the Leader of the Opposition made some rather comical statements. But this is the man - the Leader of the Opposition here this evening - who, as Treasurer in the last Liberal-Country Party Government, foisted upon the people of Australia the highest level of unemployment since the Depression days. He is the same gentleman who told this House and the people of Australia, through the medium of this House, just how bad is the Labor Budget. His cure for inflation appears to be to refuse wage increases for workers but to allow the profiteers and plunderers in the community to press on touching the pockets of the people of Australia. 
This evening, in many respects, the Leader of the Opposition made the same kind of speech as he made in August 1972. At that time he blamed wage increases for inflation. His Government - of which he was Treasurer, let, us not forget - had the opportunity to halt inflation but his cure was to take jobs from Australian workers and to deprive their families of a decent living standard. Because of engineered unemployment during the term of the last Liberal-Country Party Government, and the Leader of the Opposition's efforts as Treasurer, misery was brought to about half a million Australian workers and the families which they had to keep. The rate of unemployment benefit was below the payment rate made to pensioners. I am certain that the rate of payment to widows, who were put into categories and discriminated against, was far too low. This Labor Government has corrected this situation. 
It was the Leader of the Opposition, this financial wizard, who was responsible for a deficit of $709m and a domestic deficit of $215m in the last Budget which, of course, was $22m and $53m respectively more than the estimate of the Labor Government for 1973-74. I hope I have not upset the Leader of the Opposition by reminding the people of Australia of his performance as Treasurer. 1 now pay the Leader of the Opposition a compliment. Some people may have thought of him as a dead loss as a Treasurer but he was, in fact, a prophet. In the last paragraph of his 1972 Budget speech as Treasurer he said: 
This Budget serves the nation's larger purposes. There are, of course, challenges ahead as well as rewards. This is always so. But anyone who looks around this country - especially if he recalls it 20 years ago - will see why we have cause to read the future with confidence. 
That was a wonderful prophecy. The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  reiterated almost word for word the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member for Henty referred to a shortage of tradesmen at the Broken Hill Company Pty Ltd. Of course, what he forgot to mention was that under the policies of the previous Government, of which he was a member, that company did not employ trade apprentices. This is one of the reasons for the shortage of tradesmen today. 
The Budget speech delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  last week, contains an abundance of sound ingredients which are necessary if we are to build a better Australia for this and future generations. For the first time in almost a quarter of a century a determined effort has been made by the Federal Government to properly plan the economy and to set guidelines for a master plan which will achieve improvement in living standards, remove fear of the future for those in needy circumstances and provide the assurance that equality will become a reality. I congratulate the Treasurer on the sterling job he has done as the architect of this plan. There is no doubt that he has won the admiration and gratitude of those who have an interest in education and those in receipt of pensions. (Quorum formed) The Treasurer has won the admiration of the majority of Australians. The 1973 Budget has brought an abrupt end to the stop-go, boom-bust policies of successive Liberal-Country Party governments which have plagued Australia for the past  24  years. 
The usual anti-Labor propaganda has been evident in some quarters and the Premier of 
Queensland is following his usual practice of attacking Labor Party endeavours made on behalf of the nation and its people. But the people of Queensland should realise that payments to be made to that State by the Federal Government - I hope the Country Party is listening because it is very vocal in its attitudes to the actions of this Government - will represent a record allocation of funds and should bring great benefits to that State despite the fact that it has a backward State government currently in office. Undoubtedly the conservatives in Queensland will be able to introduce some change through the efforts of the Federal Labor Government, and will want to take all the credit for the benefit that can be brought to Queensland. I point out also, after listening to Opposition members attack the Budget this evening, that the McMahon Government in 1972 made provision for an estimated amount of $436,440,000 to be allocated to Queensland as compared to the estimate of $591,445,000 by this Government. This represents an increase of $145m to Queensland or over 30 per cent more. Labor's generosity to the State will mean that Queensland will benefit. It is interesting to note that Queensland will receive more than twice the amount granted by the Gorton Government for the year 1969-70. So if the Labor Government today has not brought down a good Budget in 1973 there must be much criticism levelled at the endeavours of the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government in Australia. 
The 1973 Budget makes provision for the greatest financial assistance in the history of this nation in the extremely important field of education. The 2 Liberal Party speakers who preceded the Labor speakers in this debate did not say a word about education. The Leader of the Opposition, in attacking Labor's Budget, indicated opposition to the provision of additional finance for education. Education has been given top priority by the Government and $843m is to be provided in 1973-74, representing an increase of $404m or 92 per cent on last year. There was not one word said by the Opposition Parties about this important reform. This allocation of funds to education makes me particularly happy because it kills the claim made by Labor's opponents prior to the 1972 Federal election that Labor Government would eliminate aid to private schools and that our education promises prior to the election would be broken. 
Just before the 1972 election, in my electorate of Lilley a vicious campaign was waged by the National Civic Council, the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberals and pseudoLiberals - cum-DLP-supporters who stooped to every undesirable tactic to instil fear into the minds of people about the future education of their children. This misleading campaign of hate carried out by individuals who spread fear and distrust was waged in vain and this Budget throws back to them the attempts they made to besmirch the character of Labor men and the good intentions of a Labor Government. 
Let me indicate to the people of Lilley what has occurred in the electorate where a great deal of this pre-election false propaganda had its infamous beginning. State schools will receive a share of the massive amount of funds the Federal Government is making available in the greatest injection of Federal finance in the history of the nation. In addition, every private school in Lilley - this will occur almost throughout Australia - with one exception will receive substantial increases in grants from the Federal Government. This must be of great benefit to students, to parents, to the schools and to the whole education structure. It must hurt the fearmongers who, with an attitude of ill will, spread their gospel of fear prior to the 1972 Federal elections. 
I am very pleased to be a member of a government that will enable boys and girls not only in my electorate but also throughout the length and breadth of this land attending universities, colleges of advanced education, State teachers colleges and other approved teachers colleges and technical colleges, to benefit because of the Federal Government's action in assuming financial responsibility for education and also in the abolition of fees. 
The increase in pensions of $1.50 a week is another important step taken by the Government to assist pensioners and to raise the standard of living. If it were not so sad it would be rather amusing to hear members of the Opposition talk about the treatment of pensioners because for too many years under successive Liberal Party-Country Party governments the plight of pensioners was made a political football. On the eve of each election we found that the government could find finance to make available to pensioners 50c or $1 or whatever it might have been, and after the election of course the then govern ment forgot all about its responsibility to these people. While a greater increase would have been welcomed, there is a firm undertaking by the Government to further improve pension payments in accordance with Labor's plans to relate the pension to the average wage. Through Labor's plan an end has been brought to the disgusting and degrading action of previous governments whereby pension handouts were used as bait for an election and pensioners and their plight were made political footballs. 
I was pleased to hear the Treasurer refer to the setting up of land commissions designed to provide Australian families with land; at fair prices. I have no doubt that statements by the Treasurer relating to housing are welcomed by low income families, young couples and other persons purchasing a home. The previous Government's poor performance in the housing field had resulted in a national crisis developing in that area. There will be overwhelming support for the introduction of the scheme of tax deductibility of mortgage interest as promised in Labor's policy speech. This scheme will assist persons purchasing a home. I certainly welcome this announcement together with the moves to ensure that land is provided at a fair price. 
I am particularly concerned about the rise in the price of land and I had hoped this evening to be able to report to this Parliament on investigations that I have made in my State concerning the spiralling land costs but I notice by the clock that I will not have time to deal with this. But as a future date I shall reveal to the Parliament particulars of an investigation I made of a land redeveloper's activities in Brisbane. I will show that much of the increase in the cost of housing can be attributed to the cost of land. If we analyse this as I hope I will be able to do on a future occasion, we will find that the claims being made by our opponents concerning the increase in wages or wage increase pressures, have very little at all to do with the increase in land prices. 
I shall conclude on that note, again congratulating the Treasurer for leading Australia on a path to true progress and prosperity. I know that it is very difficult for our opponents, after 23 years in office when they did very little to lift the standards of the people generally, to realise that a Labor government is bringing true reform which will benefit this nation and its people. If honourable members opposite are patient, because I sincerely believe they will have plenty of time to see future Labor budgets introduced, they will see reforms introduced in Australia which they might not like but which will assist the ordinary people. If we have to choose whether we pay a few cents extra on a pack of cigarettes or a gallon of petrol, against an improvement in the education of the children of this country, the lifting of the standard of living of our pensioners and making a better country for everybody, I will choose the course that has been taken by this Government. 
 I address my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Pending the construction of the new runway and taxiway system and the establishment of new airport terminal facilities at Brisbane Airport, does the Government have plans for improving the existing international terminal facilities? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, by referring to an article in the Brisbane Press of 11 September which indicates that the Queensland Government proposes legislation to enable local authorities to provide cheaper land for housing. The article points out that the Townsville City Council intends to subdivide 1,000 acres of land for auction under this proposal. I ask the Minister: Has the Australian Government any land in Brisbane and/ or other Queensland cities which is suitable for subdivision and which could be made available to local government authorities for development for sale as home building blocks? If such land is available, will the Minister consider taking steps to negotiate arrangements with the authorities concerned in order that cheaper land may be provided and the activities of speculators and land sharks curbed? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Has the Minister for Immigration received complaints  about delays in issuing passports? If so, what is being done to ensure that this essential service is efficient? 
The abusive wailings of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the rantings of some of his colleagues in the Liberal Party in areas around Brisbane are empty and reek of political overtones. For 23 years under Liberal-Country Party governments- 
It is not necessary for me to read a prepared speech. For 23 years, under Liberal-Country Party governments, Brisbane was a forgotten city insofar as airports are concerned. We know that in Perth, Launceston, Sydney and Melbourne massive amounts of money were expended on the modernising and building of airports, but the previous LiberalCountry Party governments forgot all about Brisbane and did not spend one cent on modernising or updating the airport at Eagle Farm. 
I do not intend to worry about replying to interjections from honourable members opposite, as I have only a couple of minutes in which to put my case. An advisory committee, which consisted of representatives of the Brisbane City Council, the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government, was set up to examine the matter. It brought down a report in January 1972. Whenever I hear members of the Liberal Party, particularly the honourable member for Griffith, speak about the Brisbane Airport I am quite convinced that they have not read the report and consequently do not know what it contains. Whenever they make statements, as the honourable member for Griffith did this evening, about the construction of the runways and the terminal facilities at the airport not going according to schedule, I am fairly convinced that they have not taken the time or been interested enough to read the report and to investigate just what it tells people who are so interested. I hope I will not be in breach of the Standing Orders in quoting from it. 
According to the report that was handed down in January 1972, which was when a Liberal-Country Party government was in office at the Federal level, the construction of the runways at the Brisbane Airport is not due to commence until mid-1976. That just shows that the honourable member for Griffith does not know what he is talking about. The previous Government intended to take their homes from working people who live in the areas of Cribb Island, Nudgee Beach and a section of Nudgee and to try to force them away from their properties without giving them adequate compensation. The present Government has acted differently. It is taking positive steps to protect the interests of the people concerned. There is no evidence whatsoever to substantiate the claim made by the honourable member for Griffith that the present Government is retarding the development of the airport. The acquisition of land is proceeding. That is being done in accordance with the timetable set out in the report to which I have referred. 
The Government is, of course, concerned about reducing the noise level. It is also concerned about the environment. The construction of an airport of the size of the one proposed for Brisbane has necessitated ecology studies being carried out. An environmental impact study had to be concluded. A scale model of the proposed airport was built at the University of Queensland in order that the engineers who will be associated with the building of the airport might know what effect the flooding that occurs in Brisbane from time to time will have on this area. I do not know whether the Liberal-Country Party Government intended to race in and build an airport without carrying out the necessary studies- 
You may think it is nonsense but it happens to be a fact of life that primary producers purchase their fuel in bulk. I do not know what they do in the honourable member's State. I am speaking only for the State . to which I belong. Primary producers in Queensland purchase their fuel in bulk. They purchase it at a cheaper rate than do many of the city dwellers. 
All right. Under the terms of the scheme which operated under the previous 
Government a system was allowed to develop whereby certain people in country areas are treated differently from other people living in those areas. As honourable members know, everybody cannot purchase his fuel in bulk. I do not want to go on, seeing that the Bill is not to be opposed by the Opposition. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I do not intend to speak at any length on this measure, after hearing the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  indicate that the Opposition is not going to oppose the Bill. I listened to the Leader of the Country Party and I was rather amused at some of the comments he made. He made great play on the endeavours to bring about decentralisation of this nation. I would venture to say that during the term of office of successive Liberal-Country Party governments there has been a greater drift to the cities and to the provincial towns than ever in the history - if we take a comparison and a ratio of population - of this great nation. So, if the subsidy that has been applied by the previous Government to petroleum products is a measure which it was hoped would bring about a situation in which people would not move to the cities, it has failed dismally. 
It certainly would have become worse, had a government like the previous one been re-elected. But we have a progressive government in office now, a government which is really looking to the future of the nation as a whole and is not just picking out certain areas where distinction and differentiation can be brought into operation against certain citizens. 
The States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act was introduced in 1965 and its purpose was stated as being a means of providing payments to the States to subsidise the distribution and sales of certain petroleum products sold in country areas. At that time, the scheme was introduced in order that people in the country areas would pay no more than 4d. a gallon above the price paid by people in the cities. But, of course, nobody has mentioned that the difference in the rate to be paid for petroleum products was based on the wholesale price. It was introduced ostensibly to assist people living in the country. I am supporting the Bill that is before the House because it is a measure aimed at assisting the general economy of the nation. All honourable members opposite would have received a copy and perused the terms of the review of the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government. Dealing with the petroleum products subsidy scheme under item 7, it states: 
Although the scheme was ostensibly designed mainly to benefit country dwellers and country industries. the largest Government payouts financed fuel costs of major inland towns and cities such as Canberra, Broken Hill and Toowoomba. 
I believe that one of the previous speakers from the Opposition side mentioned Toowoomba. I happen to know a little bit about Toowoomba. It was mentioned earlier by the Leader of the Country Party that country people drive for long distances and that they use a lot of petrol. If I could take a working man living in Toowoomba as an example, he would be able to drive to his place of employment in about a quarter of the time that the average resident of Brisbane would take to drive to his office or other place of work. I would suggest that the average person living in Toowoomba would use about 25 per cent of the fuel used by the average city dweller, such as the dweller of metropolitan Brisbane. According to the Coombs report, Toowoomba is one of the areas where the greatest measure of assistance has been made available. So, if there is to be some assistance to people in remote areas, the scheme has fallen down in substance as it relates to Toowoomba because people in that area are probably better off than they would be if they were living in Brisbane. 
When speaking about country people, I would suggest that for about a quarter of a century these people were treated in no way differently from the city dwellers and the other people of Australia generally by previous governments. I say this because measures such as the petroleum subsidy scheme were introduced usually on the eve of an election with a view to gaining some electoral support for the then government parties. But when we talk about discrimination, I think it is just as well to examine just what we mean when we talk about country people. Anyone would think, listening to speakers from the Opposition, that the description 'country people' applies only to farmers and graziers and other people who are primary producers. Like my colleagues, I have the highest regard for the Australian countryman. I lived in the country myself and I know their value to the nation. But I believe that our primary producers are not overly concerned with the slight alteration in the amount of subsidy proposed by this Bill. I have no doubt that they have grown tired of some of the meagre measures to which I have referred that were introduced by previous governments. I believe that they look to the national Government to provide tangible assistance by way of acquiring on their behalf sound markets for their products. They look to the Government to take action to remove the shackles of the monopolies which in the past have controlled some of the products which they produce, to the detriment of the primary producer. These monopolies were allowed to take over during the term of previous Liberal-Country Party governments. We now have a Government in federal office which will act on behalf of the primary producers and country and city people alike. 
That may be your story. The Leader of the Country Party spoke of concern for people living in these country and provincial towns and in the country areas. He expressed some concern that the amount of subsidy might be reduced or, in fact, that these people would have to pay up to a maximum of 1.7c a gallon on their fuel. Having lived in the country, and knowing the method by which graziers and primary producers acquire their fuel, I know that already in those areas these people have a distinct advantage over other people living in country towns. 
For the simple reason that the average farmer - I have been on many farms over a period of years - and the average grazier purchases his petrol in bulk. He gets abulk rate, and probably over a period of time he is buying his petrol much more cheaply than are the people living in the city areas, but the ordinary working man in the country towns and provincial cities does not get his petrol cheaper. 
This evening the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has been exposed as a phoney. Last evening in this chamber- 
I withdraw the word 'phoney' and say that this evening, as he did last night, the honourable member for Griffith has attempted to grandstand in this place. He has used abusive language to attack a most kindly and gentlemanly person, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones).  We have been shown this evening that in 6 years in this Parliament the honourable member for Griffith made 2 speeches on the subject of the Brisbane airport. He has made 3 speeches apparently on that subject in the last few days. The honourable member says that he has made 4 speeches on the Brisbane airport in the last few days. If the other three were no better than the speech that we have heard this evening I would suggest that he should give the game away with respect to debating what is happening in relation to the Brisbane airport. It appears from the references that have been quoted from speeches of the honourable member in 1970 and 1971 that his approach to the previous Government of which he was a member was that of a mouse. He approached the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  and said:  'Sir, I  want you to do something'. Now he is roaring like a lion in this place. But he is a pretty old and timid lion, I feel. 
Probably with no teeth. What the honourable member for Griffith has not said is that in the Budget for 1972-73 the previous Liberal Government allocated S500.000 to the improvement of Brisbane airport. The recent decision of the Labor Government has resulted in $6.5m being allocated to the updating and modernisation of Brisbane airport. If 'we wish to compare the money appropriated by this Government with the efforts of the previous Government in its last year of office, it will be seen that the Labor 
Government has allocated in the last few months 12 times more than the Liberal Government allocated in its last 1 2 months in office. I mentioned last evening the attitude of the previous Government to the Brisbane airport. It would appear that it was anti-Queensland. A great deal of money was expended by the former Government in either building new airports or updating and modernising existing airports in Perth, Launceston, Sydney and Melbourne. But nothing was done with respect to the Brisbane airport. 
Certainly due to the insistence of members of the Labor Party in Opposition in this House for a better deal for Queensland and with the assistance of Brisbane's dynamic Lord Mayor, the conservatives were finally nudged into the position where they agreed to set up an advisory committee to review the primary airport facilities to serve the future needs of Brisbane. I repeat that had it not been for the activities of Brisbane's dynamic Lord Mayor who has played a major role in the planning of the new airport and the proposals which will result in Brisbane having a modern international airport in the not distant future, and had it not been for the pressure applied by Labor members in this House or at the local government level in Brisbane, this advisory committee would not have been appointed. It is well known that one of the terms of reference of that committee was to seek to reduce the noise level in certain residential areas of Brisbane. 
Unfortunately - and this is one thing that makes me extremely sad - the people of Cribb Island and Nudgee Beach who can least afford to be disturbed and removed from their homes are the ones who will be suffering because of the modernisation of the Brisbane airport. But they are accepting this decision. With a government in office which is prepared to pay proper compensation, to resettle them and to look after their interests, they are prepared, I believe, to step aside to allow this airport to be developed. It is well known, as I mentioned last evening, that the report of this advisory committee was handed down in January of last year. Nobody in my electorate, in the electorate of Griffith or anywhere else in Brisbane had any idea of what the conservatives intended to do with regard to putting in progress the work suggested in that report. 
Let me explain what I have done since my election to this House. I do not come here to blow my bags about what I have done, but I believe that the statements made by the honourable member for Griffith are a reflection on my representation of my electorate. I feel that I must say that since I have been elected to this Parliament I have worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of the electorate of Lilley on the matter of the development of the Brisbane airport. When I came here the day after my election to this Parliament was confirmed, I approached the Minister for Civil Aviation and asked him what he was going to do about modernising Brisbane airport and proceeding with the work. I have talked to him on numerous occasions since. He has arranged conferences for me with heads of the Department of Civil Aviation and with the Department of Services and Property. We have had meetings in the Lilley electorate. 
It is pretty obvious to me that the honourable member for Griffith with his great interest in Brisbane airport knew nothing about these matters while they were going on. I doubt very much whether, if he were asked to find his own way to Brisbane airport, he could find his own way there. I venture to suggest that there are many areas of my electorate in which he has not been. Matters may be becoming a bit hard for him in Griffith and he is endeavouring to set up a smokescreen to take the heat off his own area. But I can assure him that I am quite capable of looking after the people of my electorate. If the honourable member cares to come into my electorate at any time I will debate with him what I have done on behalf of the people there. I will take to the people in my electorate copies of the speeches that he made on 2 occasions in 6 years here. The people of Lilley can judge then whether I have been active on their behalf. 
All right. As I mentioned last evening, the work of developing this new airport area is something which cannot be undertaken in a short space of time. Drainage work must be carried out. Provision must be made for a floodway. This floodway will assist the people of the lower Nudgee area by providing drainage for their properties. When the floodway is developed by the Commonwealth Government, it will be handed over to the Brisbane City Council. It will provide parklands, sporting fields and facilities that will enhance the beauty of the area and will make available to the young people of that district facilities for sport and for recreation. I mention these aspects because they underline the good features of what will occur as a result of this development. 
I mentioned last night, I believe - I had 3 minutes only in which to speak then - that an ecological study was being carried out and that a scale model of the proposed airport development had been built at the University of Queensland so that the flooding patterns of Brisbane could be gauged in relation to the development of that airport. A number of people have become involved in the planning of Brisbane airport. If the honourable member for Griffith and members of his Party believe that one can go into an area such as this which is a low-lying area and- 
That interjection indicates that the honourable member does not know what he is talking about. The studies are still going on. Only last Friday I met officers of the Department of Works concerning the floodway around the Nudgee Beach area. Certain works are to be carried out there and tests made to see whether the floodway can be made not quite so wide to enable some of the homes in the area to be left as they are. When the honourable member interjects and mentions that the studies are completed it indicates that he does not know exactly what is going on in the area at all. About 10 million cubic yards of sand will be pumped into the runway areas to form a base. I believe the sand will have to settle for about 2 years. As I mentioned last night a report submitted to the previous Gov.ernrment set out a timetable showing that the construction of the first runway will commence about mid 1976 and will be completed in about 1979. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffiths)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I support clause 6 of the Bill. I support it because it is clear cut and easy to interpret and because I believe that the position of an employer is fully covered. If we turn to paragraph (a)-- that is the provision which the Opposition apparently seeks to have omitted from the clause - and if we then look at the amendment put forward by the Opposition we see, I believe, that it is open to all kinds of interpretations. Somebody suggested that the Opposition's amendment might even have been framed by a lawyer. I go a little further and say that it probably was framed by a lawyer who practices in industrial law. Any person who has had any experience at all of industrial affairs will know that the insertion of the words 'which is lawful' into a section of an industrial Act takes away the right of union officials to exercise their proper capacity of entering premises or going on to a job and looking after the interests of the people whom they represent. 
I have listened to the Opposition this evening. I thought earlier that Opposition members might have been sincere. They stated that they wished to have this Bill dealt with within the time that has been allotted for its debate. It seems to me that they are marking time. We heard statements made today concerning attitudes that were related to people who wore jackboots. In his concluding remarks, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  indicated quite clearly, I think, that no matter what the majority of members of this Committee desire the way of reform in this legislation, this genuine attempt to bring about decent reform in the industrial relations field will be cast aside by the weight of numbers in the other place. 
Opposition member's seem to believe that every move by this Government and by Labor people on behalf of trade unions is made with some ulterior motive and to gain some advantage. They forget that a little more than 12 months ago a very prominent member of the then Government suggested that that Government might call in foreign companies to try to act against the trade union movement in this country as a means of depriving unions of the 35-hour week that they sought. When honourable members opposite are in government they act in one way; when they are in opposition and a proposal is put forward by a Labor government they believe that we do so for ulterior motives. 
For 23 years Australia had a government that failed, and failed dismally, in the field of industrial relations and industrial affairs. Honourable members opposite this evening have offered the Government a series of items of advice. But this advice comes from failures in the industrial field. I certainly support this clause in the Bill introduced by the Minister for Labour. I believe that acceptance of this provision will lead to sanity in the industrial field and, I hope, peace in industry generally. 
There was a suggestion some time ago that Parliament might be televised. I feel pretty certain that it is in the interests of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that we are not on the air. As he said, on about 6 occasions he had spoken in this chamber about the Brisbane airport. On Wednesday he was successful in having quite a fair story run in the 'Courier-Mail*. I was looking through that newspaper this morning to see whether the challenge I extended to him last night to come into my electorate had been reported in Brisbane. I was disappointed that it had not been because I happen to know quite a deal about the Brisbane airport 
We heard the honourable member for Griffith last evening and on the other evenings upon which he has spoken on this matter tell the House about his agitation and activity over the years on behalf of the people of Brisbane. My colleague the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  after making a thorough investigation, was able to discover that on only 2 occasions in 6 years has the honourable member for Griffith mentioned in a speech anything about the Brisbane Airport. Not wishing to be unkind to him, because one can raise matters in another way, I had a thorough investigation made today of questions he might have asked on the Brisbane Airport over the past 7 years. I found that he was not asked one question on that subject in 7 years. Yet this  Sir Galahad  from Griffith comes into this chamber and tells the people that he is championing the cause of Brisbane citizens, looking after their interests. He made a few statements this evening which were incorrect. If that is looking after the interests of the people of Brisbane it is not much of a criterion. 
Last evening the honourable member for Griffith stated that I had said that the ecology studies at the Brisbane Airport had not been carried out. I did not say that. I said that ecology studies of the proposed airport and surrounding areas have been carried out. If he checks Hansard and if I am correctly reported he will find that was what I said, because I read from a prepared sheet. I know that ecology studies have been carried out not just at the Brisbane Airport but extensively over an area as far north as Caloundra and right down to Tweed Heads. This was carried out under the terms of the recommendations of the advisory committee whose report was handed down in January last year. 
I know that a campaign has been initiated by the Liberal Party. The State member for Nundah, the Queensland Attorney-General who lives in Nundah, like the honourable member for Griffith has quite suddenly become aware that we have an airport at Brisbane. During the time that the Liberals were in office here we heard nothing from them about the Brisbane Airport. No questions were asked by the honourable member for Griffith on the subject and in 2 speeches he made rather casual references to the airport. Now we have a Labor Government which is carrying on the plan that was recommended by the advisory committee. The Lord Mayor of Brisbane - that dynamic personality who has done so much for Queensland - was responsible for much of the good work that is going on in the Airport area. We hear Liberal supporters speak about what they were going to do. I was rather amused to find after coming here that when we introduced legislation to provide a vote for 18-year-olds a succession of Liberal speakers stood up and said: We were going to do that.' When we introduced legislation to improve Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund payments for servicemen the Liberals said that they were going to do that. Looking back over 20 years, we find that the Liberals were going to abolish the means test. They are always going to do something. 
Let us get to the record. Last December the Department of Civil Aviation produced its report for 1971-72, one of the last reports handed down by the Liberal-Country Party Government. If the honourable member for Griffith is interested in Brisbane and the Brisbane Airport he might care to listen to an extract from the report. At that time  Senator Cotton  was the Minister for Civil Aviation. The report stated: 
The joint Commonwealth-State-Brisbane City Advisory Committee has completed a review of the future development of Brisbane Airport. The committee's report recommending the concept to be adopted has been completed. An Aviation Industry Advisory Committee, comprising representatives of all segments of the aviation industry, provided support and contributed to the work of the Joint Government Committee. 
Master plans are now being developed on the basis of the Committee's recommendation. Detailed investigation and planning is proceeding for the first stage of development, which includes major site filling and surcharging and the diversion of the Kedron Brook floodway. 
As an interim measure, work to cost about $380,000 has begun on extending the aircraft terminal aprons to cater for increased traffic. 
If the honourable member for Griffith would listen he would find out what is going on. The terminal aprons are associated with and are connected to the existing runways and the terminal area at Brisbane Airport. That extract would indicate to me that in 1972 plans to develop the Brisbane Airport were not being seriously considered. But I have made further investigations and I find that the capital value of the airports of Australia from 1967 until this year has increased as follows: Melbourne $64im; Sydney $64m; but in Brisbane only $5m. Over that period while money was being expended on the other airports by the previous Government the Brisbane Airport was forgotten. 
I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Griffith say that he is not going to carry on with the late show pantomine next Tuesday evening. I again challenge him and invite him to come into my electorate of Lilley before the people with whom I associate and with whom I have spoken. They are the people I keep informed about what is going on in the area. I ask him to debate with me in my electorate the attitude I have adopted. I invite him also to have a look at the advisory committee report and the timetable it contains. As I mentioned last evening, it stipulates that the construction of the runway at the proposed new airport is to commence about mid-"1976. Unless he has a crystal ball and can look into the future I do not know how he can say to this House that we are not going along with the timetable. 
I was to speak later on these estimates, but it is apparent that Opposition speakers are not available to lead the debate. In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I want to direct my remarks mainly to Division 172 which refers to the development of civil aviation. I am particularly interested in this development as it affects the modernisation and updating of the Brisbane airport. I am aware that during the reign of the previous Government many promises were made about work which was to be carried out at the Brisbane airport. I have taken the trouble to check the annual reports of the Department of Civil Aviation from 1967 onwards and I have found that in each of these reports much has been stated about work to be carried out, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. From my examination of these reports it appears that Brisbane has been the forgotten capital city. This has been the attitude of the LiberalCountry Party government over many years. It was so even at a time when a Queenslander was Minister for Civil Aviation. 
In the 1967-68 report a page or more is set aside to explain what was to occur at Sydney and Melbourne. When I reached what I deemed to be an important area to the people of Queensland I turned over the pages hoping to find something relating to Queensland. Under the heading 'Other Developmental Projects', the only reference to Brisbane in that report was that a recommendation had been made to develop the new terminal complex for Brisbane in the Pinkenba area and that planning for the complex was proceeding. Of course, that particular complex was never begun. That was one of many promises that was made by the previous Government about the Brisbane airport. 
An examination of the 1969-70 report indicates that whilst there was reference to what was occurring in other States, under the heading of 'Other Development - Queensland', there was reference to what was to happen at Rockhampton, Mackay and Mount Isa but nothing was said about Brisbane. It appears from those 2 reports to which I have referred that Brisbane certainly had been forgotten. Similarly, in the next report - the 1970-71 report - there was a great write-up about the Tullamarine Airport in Melbourne and what was to occur in Sydney. We were told that a joint Commonwealth-State-local government advisory committee had been established in that year to review the future development of the Brisbane Airport. 
I am very interested in the reference in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74 to expenditure on civil aviation development. I think I speak for the people of Brisbane when I say that over the years they have been very disappointed because Brisbane has been cast aside by previous governments. I am happy to say, although an earlier promise to do something about a complex at Pinkenba was cast aside, that the report of the advisory committee was handed down in January of last year. The committee comprised representatives of not only the Commonwealth Government but also the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council. The report that was handed down was very comprehensive. It was one to which a lot of thought had been given. A lot of work had been carried out. Much planning had to be done to ensure that no mistakes would be made in the provision of a modern airport in Brisbane. An ecology study was carried out. A great deal of planning was done in regard to the building of a floodway to serve this area. 
I am pleased to say that the present Government, unlike previous Australian governments, is proceeding with this very important work. I am particularly aware that residents of a couple of areas of Brisbane have been concerned about the modernising or updating of the Brisbane Airport having an effect on them. I refer in particular to the residential areas of Cribb Island and Nudgee Beach. I am very pleased with the attitude that has been adopted by the Government to the welfare of these people. It is different from the attitude which was adopted in the past. In excess of 1,000 people live at Cribb Island. I am very pleased to be able to say that, as a result of representations which have been made, their interests -will be protected and they can look forward to remaining in their homes for a period of 20 years or perhaps longer while this developmental work goes on. 
I have been concerned about the development of the floodway, which will be a very important part of the whole airport complex, because I thought that it might affect the people who live at Nudgee Beach. I sincerely hope that when the plan is carried to finality the floodway in the Nudgee Beach area will not be as wide as was originally planned and that the people living in that area will not be forced away from their homes. I think that over a period of years too many people have been upset and too much sadness and misery have been inflicted upon the people of the area in the name of progress. I certainly hope that the election of a Labor government to office will mean that the people of these areas will not be affected in the way that some people have been affected in the past. 
I know that there has been some suggestion by members of the Opposition that the Brisbane Airport development will not be proceeded with. From my knowledge of the movement of aircraft into and out of the existing Eagle Farm Airport - I am not a technical man, of course, but I have a pair of eyes and I can see what is going on there and the great need for something to be done in Brisbane - I say that if this work does not proceed, although I have no doubt that it will, Brisbane no longer will have an international airport. I think it is important to Brisbane - the third largest capital city in Australia - that the Government go ahead with the development of the airport. I repeat my earlier statement that over a period of years the people of Brisbane have been sickened by the empty promises made by the previous Government about what would be done. Although a select committee of the House of Representatives investigated the noise nuisance in the Brisbane area, very little was done by the previous Government to bring about an alleviation of it. 
A very fine plan has been brought down. The Lord Mayor of Brisbane and his officers played a major role with respect to the industrialisation aspect of the plan in relation to this complex. It is hoped that by the implementation of the plan it will be possible to take away the noise nuisance from the residents who have complained about it over a period of years. I look forward to that development. I am very pleased that the appropriation under division 172 has been increased this year. I sincerely trust that Brisbane will be able to look forward to having a modern airport in the future. 
 I rise for a brief period, merely to refer to some statements that have been made this evening in this debate. We have seen in the first instance the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  again in this Parliament endeavouring to indicate not only to us but also to the people of Queensland that he has a vast and intense interest in the modernisation of Brisbane Airport and the effects of operations at Brisbane Airport on people in the surrounding areas. I have said before that in the 7 years that the honourable member has been in this chamber he has made 2 speeches in which he made a brief and passing reference to the Brisbane Airport. In those 7 years he has not asked one question on behalf of the people whom he is supposed to be representing about the Brisbane Airport. He comes along in the Parliament - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. No point of order arises. If the honourable member takes frivolous points of order of that nature, the Chair will take action. 
I am making reference to the phony attitude of the honourable member and giving examples of his phony approach to this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
I did not rise on a point of order. I rose to speak to the Appropriation Bill. I mentioned the phony attitude of the honourable member for Griffith not only this evening but on previous occasions as well. I came in tonight to listen again to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  a great historian, speaking about the electrification of Brisbane's railway system. One would think, to listen to the honourable member for Petrie, that the electrification of the Brisbane railway system was something that has suddenly sprung up and suddenly interested the people of Brisbane. He is probably old enough, I believe, to remember that before 1937 the previous State Labor Government in Queensland had made plans and was actually carrying out work on the electrification of the Brisbane railways system. But due to very unfortunate circumstances that Labor Government left office and the backward Liberal-Country Party Government was elected. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)There  is no substance in the point of order. There was no personal reflection on the honourable member. 
The honourable member was too young. He would not remember 1957. But it was the backward government which still sits in Queensland that set aside the progressive .plans of the Labor Government prior to 1957 which sought to bring about the electrification of the Brisbane railway system. The honourable member for Petrie referred to the report of Wilbur Smith and Associates. I remind him that there were 2 such reports. The first of those reports resulted from a survey by the firm of Wilbur Smith into the future of private transport in the city of Brisbane. The Queensland Government was informed that the more motor vehicles were brought on to the roads by the provision of freeways and better roads, the more people would be brought into the city. This meant that the city would be choked. The increased traffic would kill off the city, pollute the air and do nothing to enhance the environment and the living standards of people generally. Then the Government had a second survey conducted. A report on public transport was brought down by the firm of Wilbur Smith. The Queensland Government took those actions the wrong way around. The first investigation should have been into methods of bringing people into the city by the use of public transport. But of course with the type of government that we have in Queensland there is no concern about the capital of Brisbane and there is no concern about the people living in the city. We have been accused in respect of alleged attitudes towards the people in the country but these allegations are completely incorrect. The present Government in the State of Queensland holds an attitude which is anti the people of Brisbane and of Brisbane itself. 
One of the other matters that was raised by the honourable member for Petrie related to the rail link between Redcliffe and Brisbane. This has been Labor policy for years. 
 The honourable member does not know what is going on in his own electorate and he does not know what is going on in his own State. The honourable member probably heard during an election campaign a Labor man putting forward a proposal that Redcliffe should be linked to Brisbane and the penny suddenly has dropped as far as the honourable member for Petrie is concerned. He has had the brilliant idea of putting before this Parliament the suggestion that there should be a direct rail link between Redcliffe and Brisbane. This has been Labor policy for years and it will be introduced only when a Labor government is elected to office in the State of Queensland. The sooner that occurs, of course, the better. The only hope for the people of Brisbane to have a decent railway system is for the Australian Government to provide the finance. There is no way in the world that the State Government will move of its own volition to take this step. That Government has strangled moves by the people and cast aside the needs of the people in Brisbane over the years. It has no intention of providing decent transport for the people of Brisbane. As I have said, it will only be as a result of the actions of the Australian Labor Government that this proposal will be brought into operation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. How are the appeals against the categorisation of non-government schools proceeding? When can decisions be expected? Is the Minister in a position to comment on the nature of the appeals? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it true that following the new policy on overseas students there has been a large number of applications from these students to remain in Australia on the completion of their studies? 
My grievance relates to a campaign currently being waged in the electorate of Lilley, a campaign that relates to an area of the electorate, the Brisbane airport, and to the proposal to build new runways and taxiways and to erect a terminal building and other facilities, thereby providing a new airport for the capital of Queensland. Of course, honourable members are well aware of my interest in this project, as I have spoken on it on several occasions in this House. I have been vitally interested, not merely of recent time but for many years, because I am aware that previous Liberal-Country Party governments have treated the people of Brisbane with complete and utter contempt. I point out that my interest in the citizens of the Lilley electorate is not new. It led me in 1969 to give evidence before the House of Representatives Select Committee which investigated the effect of aircraft noise. This was three and a half years before I was elected to the House of Representatives. Since my election I have been active in the interests of the people I represent, seeking protection for those who may be affected as a result of a new airport being built and seeking information in respect of the planning and work to be carried out in building this new airport. 
It was gratifying for me to hear the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in this House, when speaking on the Appropriation Bill on 10 October, recognising the interest that I have taken. I was particularly pleased to hear him tell the people of Australia, particularly the people of my area, that in this year's Estimates, $lm has been provided for the immediate purchase of property required for the development of the Brisbane Airport. He went on to say: 
The man who was responsible for this is the honourable member for Lilley, who was recently elected to this House. He is the one who has shown all the interest. 
The situation is that I have held meetings in the Lilley electorate and I have kept my constituents informed about what is occurring, particularly those who reside at Cribb Island and Nudgee Beach. I have visited these areas and spoken to people whose homes may be acquired. I have visited businessmen and private residents in these places and also in the Lower Nudgee area, and I have no doubt that all these people recognise my interest in their welfare. I suggest that people of those areas saw their Federal member on more occasions during the past 10 months than they did during the previous 9 years when a Liberal represented the area. I visited these people and kept them informed because I was aware that airport development work was proceeding and that finally, after years of empty promises made by Liberal governments, a Labor Government was taking action. 
I was amazed recently to learn that leaflets were being distributed in some part of the Lilley electorate - leaflets sponsored by what is known as the Campaign for the Elimination of Aircraft Noise. Its purpose as it appears to me is to attack the present Government and not make any attack on the past Government, which was responsible for allowing aircraft noise to worry the people of Brisbane for so long. This leaflet is a scurrilous document loaded with erroneous statements. It is clearly political and has a very evident anti-Labor bias. I shall quote just a couple of lines from this scurrilous document. One part of it claims: 
Last December,  Mr Whitlam  and your Federal Member promised in an election pamphlet elimination of noise within 3 years. 
It goes on to make this request to the people of Lilley: 
Protest to your ALP member now. Every time an aircraft annoys you, whether walebing television, listening to the radio, dining with your family or in ordinary conversation, remind him of the broken promise. 
This campaign is endeavouring to incite people to make a nuisance of themselves by ringing my home and upsetting my family life about something over which I have no control, something which is the responsibility of previous Liberal governments at the Federal level. We hear so much about law and order, yet this leaflet is asking people to make a nuisance of themselves and upset my family. 
There appears on this leaflet the name of A. Langton of Post Office Box 36, Nundah. Therefore I imagine that he is one who is involved with the supposed anti-noise campaign. I explain that at no time has  Mr Langton  or any member of the Campaign for the Elimination of Aircraft Noise approached me or made contact in any way to inquire as to what progress was being made with the airport development. The first knowledge I had of the activity of this body was when a copy of the leaflet to which I have referred was forwarded to me only a few days ago. I will explain the rather queer way in which this came into my hands. In explanation I point out that last week I received a telephone call from a person who claimed to be a very prominent member of the Liberal Party and one who resides in my electorate. I was of course somewhat surprised at this approach. However, after indentifying himself, this person asked me whether I had seen the leaflet on aircraft noise which was being distributed in parts of the electorate. Upon his being informed that I had not he volunteered to send one to me. This is how I came by that document. He indicated that he would contact me again after I had read the leaflet. 
He duly contacted me and we had a discussion on the contents of the leaflet. I am convinced that this man will fight tooth and nail for the party to which he belongs, the Liberal Party, and its objectives. Nevertheless it was very evident that he believed in fair play - a quality I admire in any man. He said that he had tipped me off on what was happening in the electorate; that he was well aware of my interest in the airport. He congratulated me on the efforts I was making not just on behalf of one section of the people but on behalf of all sections. In respect of the airport location, he expressed complete contempt for the leaflet and its contents. He informed me that A. Langton, who resides at Toombul, Brisbane, is a Liberal Party branch secretary. In reply to my query whether this was the A. Langton whose name appeared on the leaflet he said: 'I am a betting man, and I will bet on that one'. 
Following this discussion I decided to endeavour to track down the person whose name appeared on the scurrilous leaflet to which I have referred. I perused the Brisbane telephone directory and discovered that an A. Langton was listed as living at 7 Wallaby Street, Toombul, and that his phone number was 672197. I rang this number and spoke to a gentleman who identified himself as a person whose name appeared on the leaflet. I questioned him on the claim that the people of Lilley were given a promise by me prior to the last election that noise nuisance would be overcome at the airport within 3 years after a Labor Government took office. He admitted to me that he had no evidence to substantiate the assertion made in this regard. He appeared to be vague on Brisbane airport development. It appears that the so-called committee behind the Campaign for the Elimination of Aircraft Noise has not yet had a meeting. I was unable to establish when this committee was formed. However it is apparent that it did not operate during the term of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government when promises about the Brisbane Airport were broken with regularity. This indicates that the motives behind the campaign are more anti-ALP than anti-noise. . 
I notice that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  sitting in the chamber. The honourable member for Griffith, after 7 years' silence in this chamber in relation to the Brisbane Airport, suddenly a couple of weeks ago decided to make a couple of speeches on the .airport. We checked and found that in 2 speeches over 6 years during the term of office of his own Government, and in 7 years up to this point, he made a passing reference to the Brisbane Airport. In the whole 7 years he had been here he had not asked one question about the Brisbane airport. Suddenly he became interested. I challenged him to come into my electorate and appear with me before the people I represent and show that I had not been doing my job on their behalf. He has not accepted that challenge. It is a sad state of affairs when people can, in an electorate, resort to the distribution of a gutter-type leaflet referring to something about which they admit they know nothing. It is shocking. It is scandalous if, in fact, the person whose name appears on this leaflet is the secretary of a Liberal Party branch. 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration. What action has been taken to assist  Mrs Madonna  Weber, an Australian citizen, to secure custody of her Australian child, Rudi, who was abducted by his Austrian father in July of this year? 
One of the most important areas of responsibility which desperately needs Australian Government attention is that relating to the health services of this nation. Up until recently the Australian Labor Party was the only political party - (Quorum formed.) I noticed that not one member of the Liberal Party of Australia entered the chamber after the quorum was called for, although I am speaking about a very important subject, that is, the health program. Two or three members of the Liberal Party were present before the quorum was called. That shows the Liberal Party's interest in the health needs of this nation. I was pointing out that the Australian Labor Party was the only political party until recently to examine and campaign on the quality and accessibility of health care and health insurance. In government the Liberal-Country Party coalition caved in to any Australian Medical Association pressure and ignored the recommendations of its own committee of inquiry into health insurance - the Nimmo Committee. Its plans for rationalisation and reform of health insurance in Australia were swept under the carpet by the LiberalCountry Party coalition for fear of opposition from the powerful private insurance funds. In fact, the Australian Country Party has never shown any interest in this important area. Until recently I was unaware that it had even appointed a spokesman on health and welfare. It may as well have appointed the same public relations firm as the AMA because what it says is identical with what the AMA says. 
The Liberal Party also has had its problems. Its first appointment to the shadow portfolio, the honourable member for Kooyong,  Mr Peacock,  was removed after only a week on the job. The next incumbent, the honourable member for Corangamite,  Mr Street,  was clearly more interested in tariffs and other matters and answered Press queries with the statement: 'The doctors have not told us yet what to say'. The honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  the latest incumbent, was given the position when he proved to be too popular in his original area of interest. Is it any wonder that when the Opposition finally gets around to examining the Government's proposals it seems to be the mouthpiece for one or other of the vested interests instead of carving out its own policies in this area? I partly excuse  Mr Chipp  from this accusation for he has shown a commendable attempt to be fair. But even he has failed to differentiate between health insurance and health care and delivery. Many of his criticisms have failed to take into account the pioneering work being proposed and carried out by  Dr Sax  and his National Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
I would like to examine the Opposition's statements on our scheme, which was approved by the AMA in its gazette of 1 November.  Mr Chipp  is honest in his ignorance of the realities of health care today and in his doubts as to whether things are as bad as the AMA claims. But he, too, falls victim to the shockhorror forecasts of the AMA and the General Practitioners Society as to what is going to happen to health in Australia under our proposals. He trots out the old 'over utilisation of services' under a system of totally free hospital and medical treatment. He cites what is happening in overeas countries but presents no evidence to back up his assertions except for the hoary old fallback of human nature. I will certainly point to overseas experience to demonstrate that over utilisation is more likely to occur under our present system of feeforservice than under a free system which is, of course, not what we are introducing. 
Free medical care from general practitioners exists only as a choice for doctors and not patients. A Canadian survey published in the New England 'Journal of Medicine' in May 1973 showed that patients thought by doctors to have sought medical advice rose by 1.1 per cent of all patients to 1.9 per cent, whereas those whom doctors thought should have sought medical advice earlier fell from 2.6 per cent to 1.8 per cent. Closer to home, the Director of the Melba Health Centre was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 12 November as having said that there was no sign that people were using the free service unnecessarily.  Dr J.  S. Lawson, the Director of Tasmanian Hospital Services, has found that operation rates for tonsillectomy, appendectomy and hysterectomy conducted on a feeforservice basis in Australia were much higher than operation rates in other countries where doctors did not receive a fee for each service. This was published in Volume 14 of the National ' Hospital Journal*. 

 - Dr Lawson. 

That is correct. 
That merely indicates that he is an intelligent- 
I refer the Minister for Social Security to various reports claiming that the Australian Government is not assisting aged persons to find appropriate accommodation and nursing home care. Is this true? What has the Australian Government done to provide adequate nursing home care? 
A perusal of the annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department discloses that the Department has planned well its important operations. It has done this with a view to making use of the improved techniques that are available in order to maintain a high standard of service and to provide such service through a government department that has a tremendous growth in its operations. The conduct of Australia's largest business operation places a heavy responsibility on the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the officers of his Department. The report to which I have referred records the success of their endeavours on behalf of the people of Australia and it reflects the efficiency of the staff from the top administration level right through the various staff grades. 
I am aware that there are knockers of the Postmaster-General's Department and that in this House there are some quite vocal knockers of this important department. I point out, however, that the Opposition in this Parliament says on one hand that the Government should curb government expenditure, and on the other hand it argues that the Government should finance, subsidise and carry the people in country areas in the provision of telephone services. Rather than pay attention to those who are in the minority, I will deal with facts and pay tribute to those who deserve credit for a job well done. 
I have mentioned the growth rate of activity in the Postmaster-General's Department, and I refer to just a few items in support of that contention. First, there has been an increase in earnings from $858.5m to $937. lm, or a growth of 9.2 per cent over the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73. The remarkable increase in telephone services provided in the same period represents a rise of 23.2 per cent. Increases in telephone calls ranged from 5 per cent for local calls to 24.5 per cent for international calls and there was an increase of 13.4 per cent in national telex calls and 32.8 per cent in international telex calls. All this, has been achieved, I point out, with an increase of only 3.2 per cent in full time official staff. From time to time one hears comments from honourable members opposite about the activities of those who work in the Australian community, but when one finds this remarkable growth in the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department and then comes to understand that all this has been achieved with only a slight increase in the official staff, I would submit that one must agree that it is an outstanding feat. 
I listened to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  speaking about the alleged effect of Government policies on country people. What he failed to state or make reference to was what effect the policies of previous Liberal-Country Party governments had on city dwellers.  His  contribution illustrated his attitude towards city people, whom his Government fleeced in order to provide and maintain services in some country areas. I submit that members opposite should come clean in regard to this matter. I ask: Do they want the Government to conduct the Postmaster-General's Department as a business operation or as a service subsidised in order to maintain sectional services? They cannot have it two ways. They cannot object to the Government's spending generally and then press for government expenditure in a selected area. I believe that any great problems that exist within the Postmaster-General's Department were inherited from a lazy, incompetent, don't-care government, which was thrown out of office on 2 December 1972. We now have a government that is tackling the problems and, under the sound management of the PostmasterGeneral, will succeed in putting the operations of the post office on a sound level. 
Most honourable members would be aware - although perhaps it is not generally known - that the staff of the Postmaster-General's 
Department, numbering 115,420 persons, represents about half of the total staff employed in the Australian Government service. The magnitude of the operations of the PostmasterGeneral's Department is reflected in its financial turnover. In the financial year 1972-73 earnings were $937.1m and expenditure $895.9m. The net value of the Department's fixed assets at 30 June 1973 was $3,012m. I believe, therefore, that the efficiency of the postal department is outstanding. When one considers that during the financial year 1972- 73, 2,828 million postal articles were handled, one comes to realise that very few complaints are forthcoming about the postal services, and the efficiency of the staff becomes most evident. From my own observations and experience I cannot recall having received a complaint about mail going astray or about bad service from the Department. 
I may be fortunate in that the people who have been directing correspondence to me are intelligent enough to address the mail correctly, and I have found that if that is done, the postal staff carry out their duties very well. I pay tribute to the people who work in the Postmaster-General's Department, particularly in view of the great volume of work that goes through that Department and the efficient way they carry out their duties. I know that a lot of comment has been made about the Redfern mail exchange in Sydney, which was established some years ago in an attempt to make inroads on the cost of mail sorting operations. This was a move to endeavour to tackle a problem that was facing the whole of Australia at the time. The mail, exchange demonstrated that some aspects of mail handling could be mechanised and it was, in fact, the testing area in this country for this, sort of operation. It is important to realise that experience gained from this operation has proved to be of great assistance in planning for future mail handling operations, not only in Sydney but also throughout Australia. The size of the Redfern exchange operation is to be limited as a means of bringing about a more economical arrangement in the area of mail handling. 
I was pleased to learn that an interim mail handling centre is to be provided at Artarmon on Sydney's North Shore. According to reports it is likely that several other mail handling centres will be established in the Sydney metropolitan area. It will be interesting for the other people throughout Australia to learn that improvements in mail handling operations have occurred following the establishment of 15 letter preparation lines in the main capital cities. These letter preparation lines take away much of the tedious work formerly performed by trained and knowledgeable staff, and permit those officers to carry out other responsible duties for which they are qualified. The Labor Government is moving in other areas of the Postmaster-General's responsibility to provide the maximum benefit from improved technology. This is being achieved through improvements in day to day organisation. Computer based management information systems include the computerised analysis of faults in external line plant and radio telecommunication installations. Through the use of technology and the productivity of the PostmasterGeneral's staff, better services are being provided for the people of this nation. I pay a tribute to the men and women of the Postmaster-General's Department who work by day and night on behalf of this nation and its people. I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral who has shown in less than one year that he will prove to be the best PostmasterGeneral that this country has ever had. 
I am somewhat astounded after listening to some of the statements which have been forthcoming from members of the Opposition. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke about the despicable display by the Government in wanting to go to the people of Australia to seek their opinion on an alteration to the Constitution. Supporters of the Government believe that this is the democratic right of the people of Australia. I was rather astounded to hear the Leader of the Country Party make such a statement. 
Several speakers from the Opposition, particularly the Leader of the Country Party, relied heavily on the Constitution and its reference to how the electorate should be determined. I think the point that has been missed is that over the years there has been a great drift of population from the country areas to the cities and particularly to the capital cities. For instance, 60 per cent of the people of Australia lived in country areas in 1916. When I refer to country areas I include country towns. Forty per cent of the then population resided in the capital cities. At present, about 55 per cent of Australian people live in the capital cities and about 85 per cent reside in the capital cities, provincial cities and towns. There has been a marked shift of population from the country to the cities. The Opposition has not taken this into account when it has considered what the Government is endeavouring to estabilsh. 
One point that became evident after listening to Opposition speakers was that the great majority of Australians and particularly those who live in the larger cities, the provincial cities and towns, have been informed in no uncertain terms by Opposition members that their vote should not have the same value as the vote of people who live in the country areas. Speakers from the Opposition side have dealt mainly with how many square miles are contained within the boundaries of a few electorates. They have sidestepped the real issue that is being debated in this House, that is, whether members of this House and of State Parliaments should be chosen directly and democratically by the people. I submit that this is an admirable objective and one which I believe should have the full support of all fair minded people. It appears that those in Opposition seek to walk roughshod over the Australian people and to treat city electors as second rate citizens. They appear not to understand the provisions of this Bill. 
The provisions of the Bill have been dealt with at some length. But, in short, the intention is to introduce into the electoral laws provisions which will ensure that electorates are evenly weighted. I submit that this, in turn, will lead to the conduct of truly democratic elections by applying the principle of one vote one value. 
I submit that there should be no opposition to the proposal to seek the people's views on altering the Constitution in the manner sought because if the people of Australia are in accord with the views of the Opposition they will reject the proposition that is put before them. But they should be given the opportunity to express an opinion on this matter. I believe that members in this House have no right to refuse the move to gain an expression of opinion from the electorate. On the contrary, I suggest there is a moral obligation on all elected representatives in this House to permit the people's view to be obtained. 
Much has been said concerning some supposed ulterior motive to gain an advantage for the Australian Labor Party. Of the three political parties whose members sit in this House, the members of the Liberal Party should be the most active in supporting this measure. I say this because I seriously believe that the Liberal Party should take stock of its position, I point out that in the community there are people who belong to a branch of the Liberal Party who appear to subscribe to the view that the Liberals should be looking where they are going. I refer to a Press report in the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 29 January 1973 which was headed: 'Young Libs. Proposal to Scrap States'. The article states: 
Surfers Paradise: A radical policy document which even questions the present States system in Australia has been drawn up by Queensland Young Liberals. . . . 
Entitled 'Towards a New Freedom', the document is expected to be resisted strongly by the senior Liberal Party in Queensland. 
The document drawn up by the young Liberals in Queensland states in part: 
We therefore seek to encourage the development of the Parliamentary Committee system, particularly in the Upper Houses of the Parliaments of this nation where it is not necessary for the government of the day to retain control of the day-to-day business of the House. 
One real step forward in the creation of such a system would be the democratisation of the election procedures of these Houses, as the undemocratic nature of their composition currently would prevent their holding the respect of the electorate when they inhibited the activities of government. 
It states further: 
Liberals therefore seek to include in the constitution of all governments the principle of a continuing independent electoral commission determining boundaries on a basis of community of interest whose numbers of voters are equal subject to an allowable variation of not more than 10 per cent in order that the future development of growth areas would not make the distribution obsolescent within a very short period. 
There are young people in the Liberal Party who can see what is occurring and they show some concern about it. 
If we look no further than the voting results at the 1969 and the 1972 Federal elections, we see that the voting trends, so far as the 3 political parties which have members in this House are concerned, show some startling results in some respects. I shall deal with New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland to illustrate the manner in which the Liberal vote fell and the Country Party vote increased. Between 1969 and 1972, while the Australian Labor Party vote went up considerably in New South Wales, the Liberal Party vote declined by 37,673 votes and the Country Party vote rose by 14,593. In Victoria, the Liberal vote dropped by 20,201 and the Country Party vote increased by 20,200. In Queensland there was a drop of 2,407 in the Liberal 
Party vote and an increase of 35,000 in the Country Party vote. 
At the 1972 Federal elections the Australian Labor Party gained 49.6 per cent of the total primary vote and won 67 seats. The Liberal Party received 32.1 per cent of that total vote and had 38 members elected. The Country Party received 9.4 per cent of that vote and that Party won 20 seats. There emerge from the foregoing figures 2 important factors. The first is that as a result of the Country Party manipulation, this minority group has 16 per cent of the total membership of this House, although its vote was only 9.4 per cent of the total vote recorded by the electors of Australia. When we hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  speak about what might occur in the future 'by way of gerrymandering of electorates if the people of Australia decide that they want the Constitution altered, it makes us realise why the Country Party has no desire to see any change made. As I indicated, it recorded 9.4 per cent of the vote but has 16 per cent of the membership of this House. 
The second factor is one which should be causing grave concern for every person in the community who believes in the principle of one vote one value. It appears that as a result of the manipulation of the Country Party the Liberals have been robbed of five or six seats in this House. If they are happy to accept this kind of situation - after listening to some of the speakers today it appears that they are - the people of Australia should be asking why this type of gerrymander should be permitted and why the Liberal Party is so anxious to allow a situation like this to continue. 
 The tail apparently is wagging the dog. I am of the opinion that the Liberals should hang their heads in shame for permitting a minority group to outmanoeuvre them. I anticipate that they will rue the day that they buckled under Country Party persuasion and allowed their position to be weakened. When we look at the question of responsible government in the Queensland Parliament, the situation is even worse. For people who have any desire to see democracy working as it should, the situation in Queensland is particularly frightening. In Queensland the most blatant, dishonest and immoral gerrymander possible has been engineered by the minority party, the Country Party. The minority party is in command of the Queensland Government because of dishonest rigging of electoral boundaries. The sad part about the whole rotten business in Queensland is that the Liberal Party has caved in under the minority domination of the arch boundary rigger, and the result is staggering. 
I would explain that prior to the 1972 State election there were 78 electorates in Queensland. The Country Party and those who are in control of that Party in Queensland, having the cunning of all confidence men, sensed the support that the Australian Labor Party was gaining and decided to increase the number of electorates from 78 to 82. Great shadow sparring by the State Liberals followed, but the minority Party soon flattened its weaker unholy partners, and the Liberals again bowed to Country Party pressure. While this argument concerning the rigging of boundaries and the gerrymander that was to take place in Queensland was going on the 'Australian' newspaper of 30 March 1971 ran an article under the heading 'Politics versus principles*. I shall quote from a section of that article under the subheading 'Worst ever'. It reads: 
The Liberal Party State  president, Mr E.  Robinson- 
He now sits in this House- says that if the Country Party's proposal is adopted it will mean 'electoral injustice at Country Party insistence,' while  Mr Houston  says it is 'the worst gerrymander the world has ever seen.' 
So it came to pass that at the 1972 State election in Queensland the people went to the polls to elect- 
Of course it is a good point if it wastes time, but I will not waste time answering that sort of interjection. When the people went to the polls they went to elect 82 State Government representatives. I can easily understand why honourable members opposite, particularly those who belong to the Country Party, do not want to hear what goes on in Queensland. The result of this election illustrates the detrimental effect to democratic elections that the political racketeers achieved in Queensland. The Australian Labor Party received 430,476 votes, which was 48 per cent of the total votes cast, and had 33 members elected. The Liberal Party received 201,608 votes, or 22 per cent of the total vote, and had 21 members elected. In democratic Queensland, where the Country Party is in control of the coalition, the Country Party gained 181,288 votes - less than 20 per cent of the total vote - and won 26 seats. I point out that 2 independent candidates also were elected. 
Examining the results, it can be seen that Liberal Party candidates gained 20,320 votes more than their co-runners for 5 fewer seats. That is how strong the Liberal Party is in Queensland. The Liberals clearly failed the people who supported them and they failed democracy. Further, the combined votes of the Country Party and Liberal Party candidates totalled 382,896 or 47,580 fewer than the total ALP vote, but won 14 seats more than the Australian Labor Party. In short, the present coalition Parties combined gained 42.2 per cent of the total vote for 47 seats, and the ALP gained 48 per cent of the total vote and won 33 seats. If anywhere in this country there is need for democratic electoral reform, surely it must be in Queensland. I submit with all honesty that reform should be made not just to benefit any political Party but to ensure that elections are properly conducted. 
I have illustrated how the Country Kid, the oil baron of Kingaroy, and his hatchet men put it all over the city slickers, the smart businessmen of the Liberal Party, whom they took for a ride about 1 8 months or 2 years ago. I must point out that in a spirit of true charity a little heart balm was handed to the Liberals. This was done in the form of a gerrymander in the Brisbane metropolitan area which favoured the Liberals. The result of this was the election of 17 Liberals who collectively gained 36.7 per cent of the city vote and the election of 15 ALP candidates who collectively gained 51 per cent of the vote. The rotten position in Queensland as a result of political wheeling and dealing is that, at the 1972 State election, on average it took 13,045 votes to elect one ALP candidate, 9,600 votes to elect one Liberal and 6,972 votes to elect one Country Party member. 
The magnitude of the political racketeering which has been imposed upon the people of Queensland is shown when one realises that Brisbane's Lord Mayor at the last Brisbane City Council election received 30,000 votes more than the Country Party could muster in the whole of the State at the previous State election. The excuse usually put forward by those who support dishonest electoral boundary rigging is that the Country Party held electorates are large in area and sparsely populated. This false argument falls fiat in Queensland, because of the 8 large country electorates 5 are held by the Australian Labor Party. These are the electorates of Mount Isa, Cook, Tablelands, Warrego and Belyando. It is clear that the whole dishonest electoral mess in Queensland is easily exposed, and the shallow arguments of the architects of the crooked system which exists are easily destroyed. 
It has been pointed out here today by previous speakers that similar gerrymanders exist in other States, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria. I have pointed out that the Country Party in this House has overrepresentation, if one considers the vote it receives throughout the nation. I believe this is a matter that should cause concern to the people of Australia, and it should particularly concern those honourable members opposite who belong to the Liberal Party, because they should come to realise that the tentacles of electoral corruption are spreading and it emerges that the old buddy of the Liberal Party, that is the Country Party, is well on the way to white-anting the Liberal majority of the Opposition. 
I want to refer to a Press report which appeared in yesterday's 'Canberra Times' under the heading: 'Kane Urges Joint DLP-CP Ticket Under Anthony'. It reads in part as follows: 
The Federal secretary of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Kane,  has called for a new national force in Australian politics led by the Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony. 
If Doug Anthony can campaign for the Senate in the 4 smaller States at the bead of a joint DLP-CP ticket, it will lay the foundation for a strong political force in the smaller States prepared fo defend their interests against Canberra,' he said. 
That indicates that the DLP and the Country Party do not place much reliance on the strength of the Liberal Party in campaigning. 
I believe that the people of this nation are fed to the teeth of the electoral gerrymanders which have been permitted not only in the Federal sphere but also in the States, and particularly in Queensland. Minority control is undemocratic. I am confident that it will not be accepted or tolerated by the people of Australia. All the arguments that might be put forward against the Bill that is now before the 
House must fall flat because we of the Australian Labor Party Government merely seek to give the people of Australia the right to make a determination. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many arrests have been made by the A.C.T. Police of persons alleged to have been involved in homosexual acts carried out by consenting males in private since 1 July 1970. 
How many convictions were recorded in the same period. 
Is there any evidence that male homosexuals residing in the Australian Capital Territory have been subjected to blackmail, persecution or standover tactics. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and I preface it by referring to a proposal by Queensland Cement and Lime Co Pty Limited to establish a coral crushing plant at MacArthur Avenue, Meeandah at the mouth of the Brisbane River. I understand that an environmental impact study has been carried out, though it appears that the company has not released the report. As there is evidence of grave concern that the establishment of the proposed plant will result in air pollution affecting a large residential area of Brisbane, I ask the Minister: Has the Australian Government power to intervene with a view to preventing the construction of this plant? If so, will the Minister take appropriate action to protect those people of Brisbane whose life quality may be impaired as a result of the proposed coral crushing plant becoming established? 
In speaking to this Bill I shall endeavour to be objective in my approach. I hope that I do not introduce emotional matter into the contribution I make. I certainly do not intend to launch an attack upon members of the medical profession, the majority of whom are dedicated men and women for whom I have the highest regard. It is unfortunate that, in some areas, some medical practitioners have become party to distorting the Labor Government's health scheme. I noticed this evening that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  flogged the old line that under our scheme people will not have the freedom of choice of doctors. The honourable member should know that this is incorrect. If he does not know that much about our scheme, I would suggest that he has another look at the White Paper and acquaint himself with Labor's program. The new health insurance program has important ramifications for people throughout Australia and in some ways has some unique implications for Queensland. 
After listening to the rantings of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  I wonder whether he is so naive as really to believe some of the propositions and statements that he put before this House this evening. He has tried to wave aside casually a political advertisement that apparently was inserted in the Courier Mail' by Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd. It was an advertisement loaded with inaccuracies and it was insulting to the best Prime Minister that this nation has ever known. It deserves nothing but contempt. 
Opposition members  -  Ha, Ha! 
 Honourable members opposite are so backward in their attitudes that they would not have come to realise and appreciate the wonderful work that has been done on behalf of this nation since 2 December. The Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd, a manufacturing firm in Toowoomba, has sought to enter the political arena and to attack the great Prime Minister of this country innuendo and suggestion. I do not wish to speak for the Leader of the Liberal Party and if the Liberals want to accept the insults which are being levelled by this firm at their leaders, it is their business. The very first passage in this advertisement about which the honourable member for Darling Downs is apparently so happy states: 'Would you trust either of these or any other politician to control your private life, to control your freedom, to decide what you want to do, or to be, or to be paid?' There is a photograph of our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Snedden)  on opposing sides of the advertisement. When a firm indulges in this sort of gutter type advertising it deserves, the contempt of this parliament and the people of Australia. There was never any suggestion by the Prime Minister of this country that the Government would want to control the freedom of people or to make decisions about what people want to do or be. Therefore that particular passage is completely incorrect. 
However, the advertisement goes further. One could imagine that it warns the people of Toowoomba and perhaps of Queensland when it claims that history has shown that price fixing produces shortages and black markets. I wonder if Toowoomba Foundry is indicating to the people of Queensland and the people of Australia that after the referenda are held next Saturday, and the control of prices and incomes is granted to the Federal Government, it intends to enter the black market arena and to do things which would bring about shortages in the nation? I wonder if this particular advertisement has any connection with another advertisement which appeared in the same newspaper on the same day and which was inserted by a bogus organisation calling itself SOS', which I believe is an organisation based in the League of Rights which is spreading throughout Queensland and about which I will say something in a moment. As a 
Queenslander I am deeply concerned about advertising of that type which contains incorrect assertions and levels incorrect charges. 
I am deeply concerned about recent developments in my State, particularly in regard to the attitude of the Country-Liberal Party Government to the prices and incomes referenda. Only recently many Queenslanders were dismayed at the ruthlessness with which the Bjelke-Petersen Government - apparently the honourable member for Darling Downs thinks that great democratic government in Queensland is a wonderful government - bludgeoned through the State Assembly a resolution opposing the conferral of powers sought by this Federal Government under section 128 of the Constitution. The Queensland Government pushed that resolution through on the grounds that it would be inimical to the welfare of the citizens of Queensland. The resolution authorised the State Government to take action to defeat the proposals which are being submitted to the referenda. In speaking to the motion  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said that it was a matter of great concern and interest in Queensland. He said that the people had a choice of free enterprise, an example of which was the past Liberal-Country Party administration or of centralised control from Canberra, the ultimate elimination of the States and the setting up of a republican Australia patterned on the communist way of life. I say that for a man who is supposed to be a responsible premier in the State of Queensland- 
That interjection only indicates the backward thinking of people who agree with such statements. That statement by the Queensland Premier indicates that he will stoop to anything to try to make political gain for the minority party which he leads in Queensland. I point out that from the time this Federal Labor Government was democratically elected by the people of Australia, the backward Premier of Queensland has done nothing but attack it and make statements saying that he would not support any measures which come from this Government. He is a great democrat. His attitude is of the type apparently that Country Party members of the Opposition support. 
His attitude to the price  referendum, to  which I have just referred, is rather curious. While we are told that this type of control is dangerous, in Queensland recently when petrol resellers and bread manufacturers intended to increase the price of their commodities the Bjelke-Petersen Government said it would introduce price control if those prices were increased. On one hand the Premier says that we should not have controls and apparently he supports the attitude of the type of individuals who insert the advertisements to which I have referred. On the other hand he issued the threat that he would introduce price controls against these people. It is rather amusing that the great democrats in the Government in Queensland stated - according to the 'Courier Mail' of 24 November - that they were angered because the announcement of proposed price increases was made prior to 8 December. Apparently they do not care two hoots if prices are increased after 8 December provided of course the referenda are not carried. 
I wanted to say a lot about what is happening in Queensland, but let us examine the record of the Queensland Government because governments are best judged on their records of achievements and on their records of administration- The Queensland Government maligns the Federal Labor Government and decries every effort and endeavour it has made on behalf of the people of Australia. Queenslanders are waking up to their Government. 
.That Country Party receives only about 20 per cent of the total vote. I am reminded of the old story of the country lad coming to town and the city slicker selling him the bridge or the town hall. The exact opposite has happened in Queensland. The smartie from the Kingaroy area has sold the Liberals down the drain and the Liberals are not smart enough to wake up to it. Since Bjelke-Petersen came to office in 1968 the per capita debt of the State has increased from $628.22 to $753.02 or by almost 20 per cent. This is in spite of the Commonwealth's general revenue assistance increasing from $90.32 to $165.12 per head of population, or by 60.67 per cent. Semigovernment and local authority borrowings in Queensland are the highest in Australia. The per capita borrowings stand at $67.93 compared to $28.47 under the South Australian Labor administration. The total railway deficit will amount to $44.3m this year compared to only $21.6m in 1972-73. 
Estimates for the Premier's Department under Bjelke-Petersen have increased by 145.13 per cent to $5.54m over 5 years. Much of this is accounted for by his plane which cost $241,000 and which costs $35,000 a year to run. Further, he has the audacity to suggest that the Federal Government should cut back on its expenditure when his own State Government brought down a Budget which provided for an increase in expenditure of 22 per cent compared to the Federal Treasurer's Budget which provided for an increase in expenditure of 19 per cent. While these innuendos and the acts which are endeavouring to malign our Government are continuing, Bjelke-Peterson and his backward Government in Queensland hope to pull the wool over the eyes of the people in Queensland. 
I address to the Treasurer a question which relates to the devastating flooding which occurred in Queensland earlier this year. Has his attention been drawn to advertisements inserted in Queensland newspapers by the Queensland Government early in February which draw attention to State Government assistance available to flood victims but which make no reference to the Australian Government or its mammoth financial contribution to the relief scheme? In order that there may be a proper understanding of the role played by the Australian Government in providing relief and assistance to Queensland flood victims, I ask whether the Treasurer will provide this House with particulars of the sterling work carried out by personnel from the armed forces and Australian Government departments, and of the Australian Government's involvement in making finance available to the Queensland Government to assist the people of Queensland. 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware that a 3-year-old Australian citizen, Rudolph Weber, who was taken illegally from his Australian mother, is. being denied visits by his mother now in Austria? Will the Minister ask the Austrian authorities to end this unjust situation? 
This evening I have been listening to some of the comments of honourable members opposite. We have been taken on a Cook's tour. Much comment has been made which contained little if any logic. 
If we talk about strong points the honourable member would be the last person to whom I would turn for advice. I rise this evening to speak to the Address-in-Reply and to make comment on certain aspects of the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen when she opened the second session of the 28th Parliament. I refer to the concern expressed by  Her  Majesty of the Australian Government and of the people of Australia at the loss of life and property in the recent floods in Queensland and New South Wales.  Her  Majesty referred to the substantial assistance already provided by the Australian Government to those who. have suffered grievously and to the fact that assistance will continue to be provided. Speaking as a Queenslander I am sure I express the gratitude of the great majority of the people of my State. I pay tribute to the Australian Government for its magnificent contribution during and following the devastating flooding which occurred. I point out to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  who interjected that unlike the Queensland Government - the Government that was available and on the spot in the areas where the flooding occurred - the Australian Government took immediate action to have the position assessed. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  was in Brisbane immediately it became evident that flooding was occurring. 
It is obvious that the honourable member was not in Brisbane for him to make such a statement.  His  mind is either fading or his recollection of what occurred is vague because the Minister for Science was in Brisbane within hours of the flooding occurring on Saturday, 26 January. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was there on the Sunday. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lional Bowen),  the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  were also there. Of course, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  were present at all times. The visit by the Acting Prime Minister and the Treasurer resulted in the announcement of the largest and most generous scheme of assistance to people affected as a result of a national disaster in the history of this nation. Press reports told the story of the extent to which the Australian Government was prepared to go to assist the people of Queensland. 
Of course that statement is completely incorrect. It is the smear type of comment that one would expect from somebody who has little interest in the victims of this devastating flood. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  showed interest at all times.  His  interest is borne out by the action taken by the Australian Government. The floodwaters did not commence to recede until mid afternoon on 30 January. The day before this, while the Hooding was still on, the Minister for Social Security cut red tape - this would be something that Liberals would never be prepared to do - and ordered his Department to make special arrangements' to assist the 
Queensland flood victims. He made arrangements to ensure the issue of duplicate pension and other social security benefit cheques to people who had lost original cheques in the floods. He made arrangements also to have special benefits paid to people who became unemployed as a direct result of the floods. It is to his credit that he had inserted in the newspapers of 30 January an advertisement providing information to people who may have been affected in these matters. 
I am surprised to hear interjections from a Queensland member endeavouring to gain some political ground as a result of a disaster that affected the lives of many Queenslanders. It is not to his credit. The year 1974 had a very sad beginning for thousands of Queenslanders. The loss of and damage to property and personal belongings was immense. In time perhaps the value in dollars and cents of goods and property affected by flooding will be properly assessed. However, the anxiety, despair and heartbreak which resulted from the tragic floods can never be measured. How can one place some valuation on the grief experienced by the family whose home and all its contents were washed away? What recompense is there to erase the shock experienced as homes became submerged and as furniture and clothing was swept away in the raging flood waters? How is it possible to evaluate the effect on the future wellbeing of men, women and children who fall into the cold category of flood victims? This tragedy was a dreadful occurrence, the result of a cruel twist of fate, and imposed on many Queensland people a heavy burden of loss. 
One feature that emerged from this disaster was the grand response from those not affected to the call for assistance for those who were. I can speak with knowledge of what occurred in Brisbane in this regard. I am aware that a spirit of compassion was evident among the large numbers who assisted in the rescue work and later with cleaning up and making homes habitable again for those people who could return. Men and women from all walks of life - office workers, labourers, tradesmen and professional people, some young and some not so young - volunteered for the mammoth job of cleaning up. At present much of this work still needs to be done but the point I make is that people generally were aware of what was happening and of the urgent need for action to be taken at that time. Among the great army of volunteer workers no doubt there were people with differing views on many questions and of different, attitudes, including political attitudes. Right wing extremists worked alongside left wing radicals, but politics did not come into the discussion. The job was to assist people who had undergone a cruel experience; politics could wait for another day and another arena. I believe this was the general view. It was a decent attitude and one to be commended. 
The great scar on the whole of the wonderful work and assistance that was forthcoming from the people of Queensland and the Australian Government was the fact that the Country Party led Government in my State procrastinated in initiating moves to set up a relief fund. It entered into cheap politicking which shocked Queenslanders generally. The anti-city Government of Queensland endeavoured to use the misfortune of flood victims to further its political aims. In a cold and blatantly dishonest way the Government that is lead by the Country Party in Queensland made an effort to capitalise, for political purposes, on the greatest tragedy that has ever occurred in Queensland. It endeavoured to gain political advantage on the back of the Australian Government. 
I refer honourable members to newspaper advertisements which appeared in the Brisbane Press following the magnificent action by the Australian Government in making almost unlimited finance available to the people of Queensland. With blatant dishonesty advertisements appeared in the Press headed 'The Queensland Government: You may be eligible for a Cash Grant up to $15,000 if your home has been destroyed or damaged by flood.' When protests were forthcoming because of this type of dishonest advertising by the conservatives in Queensland it was followed by another advertisement which was headed Your State Government in co-operation with the Commonwealth Government is providing every assistance possible to help flood victims throughout the State.' It was signed 'Joh. Bjelke-Petersen, Premier of Queensland'. So even when correcting the wrong that had been done by the Government of Queensland the Premier could not miss the opportunity to have his name inserted as the author of the advertisement for the purpose of indicating to the people of Queensland that it was the Queensland Government and not the Australian Government that was responsible for the amount of financial assistance that was being made available. I feel that the people of Queensland can have nothing but contempt for a Government that stooped to such a low level. No doubt the people of Queensland will remember the cheap political stunt entered upon by the Government of Queensland led by a minority Party. 
Having made reference to the sad and sickening action of the conservatives in office in Queensland I now turn to some sweeter and fresher comments. I want to pay a special tribute to the Lord Mayor of Brisbane - that grand Queenslander, that dynamic figure in politics in Australia - who immediately took action to ensure that the problems of the victims of the flood in Queensland were alleviated. 
Of course he had a moral responsibility. He shouldered his responsibility. He grasped the nettle, took the initiative and immediately set up a fund to assist the people who had been affected by the flood. It is very difficult in Queensland to obtain a correct assessment of the amount of money contained in the Lord Mayor's fund. I could find out, as could anybody else, by contacting the Lord Mayor or his office. The Queensland newspapers seem to be a little reticent in putting this information before the people of Queensland. Of course, the reason is very obvious. One week after the dynamic Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane set up his fund the backward Country Party Government decided that it would set up a fund. I believe that currently, in the area in which the Brisbane City Council was able to have contributions made to the fund, it is almost Sim in front of the fund for the whole State of Queensland which was set up in a belated way by the Queensland Government. 
I am very proud of that. This is the greatest effort by any Government in the history of this nation in assisting people who have been the subject of some disaster. I am proud of what we have done. If the honourable member wants to back the attitude and the action of the Queensland Government that is his business. I say that it is a scar on the whole of the wonderful work that was done in Queensland. There is another aspect of this disaster about which I want to make some comments. No doubt the people sitting opposite who represent these interests will not be happy about what I am going to say. Insurance companies are receiving criticism from many quarters following the devastation which occurred in Queensland. Those of us who take an interest in what is occurring there would be aware of this. There has been a sudden rude awakening as to the protection afforded insurance companies through the medium of cleverly worded policies in relation to insurance on dwellings and their contents. There has been uncovered the startling fact that the vast majority of policy holders were not covered for flooding which occurred as the result of heavy rains continuing and property and belongings being damaged. 
I was somewhat amazed to see in the Press last Tuesday a report that the Queensland Government may act on flood insurance. This was four or five weeks after the floods receded. According to this Press report published in the 'Courier-Mail', the Queensland Government may act on flood insurance. On Monday of this week my attention was drawn to the case of a family who had been insured with the State Government Insurance Office, which is controlled by the Queensland Government of course. They are currently paying premiums in the vicinity of $200 a year. They made an application to the State Government Insurance Office in Queensland for insurance for about $450 as a result of flooding which occurred in the area and they were told by the representatives of this Government agency that they would receive no insurance. I submit that it is rather hypocritical for a government to tell the people that it may act - of course, the emphasis must be placed in the word 'may' - on flood insurance. People in the community who are progressive and who look ahead knew on past performance that insurance companies had very little if any intention of meeting the commitments that should have been theirs. 
The Queensland Trades and Labour Council held a meeting on 6 February - one month before the backward Government of Queensland decided that it might do something - and called on insurance companies and the Government to ensure that insurance was paid to people who had storm and tempest policies with any insurance company iti Queensland. I am proud to belong to a Government whose Treasurer was able to announce earlier this week that action was being taken to ensure that there would be protection for people against this sort of disaster. This morning I was particularly pleased to read a report - no doubt the people of Queensland particularly will be interested in this - that the Australian Government will take action to set up insurance funds to protect people who at the present moment receive no protection from these insurance companies - in the main these great private enterprise bodies who back the people sitting opposite in this chamber. I was pleased to read of this because I am convinced that in Queensland alone, if people can be fully covered - they certainly have not been in the past by these organisations which claim to be insurance companies - they will rally behind the Australian Government, not merely because the rates of premium apparently are much lower than those currently being charged but because they can be assured of protection. I feel that action of the insurance companies in Queensland generally in backing away from their responsibilities in refusing to compensate people who through no fault of their own lost their homes and their belongings will certainly cause a great reaction in the community. I listened to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  who spoke before me giving us a discourse on economics. Such people might be able to explain to me how the Australian Government will be able to provide all this protection for a premium of about $11 when the great private enterprise companies apparently for a lesser coverage charge from $40 to $80 a year in premiums. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister of this country, his Ministers and all those responsible for rallying to the Queensland people who were affected by the floods. I can have nothing but contempt for people who endeavour to make political capital out of this disaster, and I sincerely hope that in future, wherever Australians may live, through the actions of this great Federal Government which is currently in office, they will be able to look to the future knowing that they are financially secure from floods and from other damage to their homes and that their lives will not be wrecked because people will not shoulder their responsibilities. 
 I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour. Is it true that coal shortages at Ipswich in Queensland are likely to cause power cuts with serious consequences to industry and employment in Queensland? What is the cause of these shortages? Has the 
Queensland Government taken action to ration electricity in such a way as to ensure that a wholesale closure of Queensland industry will not occur? 
My great regret tonight is that this part of the proceedings of the Parliament is not being broadcast. I was somewhat astounded to hear 2 representatives from Queensland knocking a forward and progressive decision made by the Australian Government to provide $3.7m for expenditure on the Brisbane Airport. After 23 years of Liberal rule, during which time the Minister for Civil Aviation was a Queenslander and so much neglect was apparent in Brisbane, it is astounding to hear these people suddenly take an interest in the welfare of Brisbane and its people. It is no more than so much humbug that has been put forward here this evening in an endeavour to relieve some of the tension which honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  are feeling. I have no doubt that, since he read the Courier Mail' this morning and discovered that the dynamic Lord Mayor of Brisbane may be opposing him in Griffith, he has taken a packet of Aspros and a couple of bottles of Veganin in an endeavour to steady his nerves. 
I do not have much time, but I want to say that I was concerned when listening to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  because whenever I hear Liberals talk about Labor Party members and their election signs I recollect vividly that the Labor candidate for Lilley lost a great number of his signs in 1966. Certain events that followed indicated that there could have been some Liberal interest in the Labor Party signs. I certainly hope that that does not happen to the signs in Lilley. The honourable member for Griffith has been in this House for 7 years and, on his own admission, he had not made one speech in respect of the Brisbane Airport until the Labor Government was elected in 1972. It took him almost 12 months after the Labor Government was elected to discover suddenly that we had an airport in Brisbane. He endeavoured to hop on to the bandwagon when he knew that the Labor Government finally was doing something for Brisbane after the years of neglect under a Liberal Party government. He should hang his head in shame because he did not open his mouth. I again offer him the challenge I offered last year, to come into my electorate, to face the people of my electorate and to tell them what he believes I have not done on their behalf. 
The honourable member for Petrie has the temerity to talk about how I might fare in my electorate. I am not concerned, because I have served the people I represent. I would compare my record of attendance in this House since I was elected with that of the honourable member for Petrie. I noticed that during the last session he was absent from the House on many occasions. When people want to make comparisons between the representation by the various elected representatives, I will stand before the people of Lilley and tell them that I have been present at every session. I will go into the honourable member's electorate, if I need to, and tell them that there must have been something more important to him that took him away from the House and away from his responsibilities of representing the people of Petrie, because he was not here on every occasion during the last session. 
Mouse adjourned at 11 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the adjournment debate last evening the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  in speaking about the Brisbane Airport about me:  . . said his performance on the Brisbane Airport issue is such that one might well say that the best he could do would be to put up a few signs, because he certainly has not created much of a record when it comes to the Brisbane Airport. 
That statement was completely untrue. It indicates a lack of knowledge. 
That indicates a lack of knowledge about the Brisbane Airport and about the progress which has been made towards the Government's objective of providing Queensland's capital with a modern airport. The honourable member for Petrie is either ignorant of what is occurring or careless with the truth. I have consistently and successfully made representations on behalf of the people I represent for the provision of modern airport facilities for Brisbane. I would point out that in addition to endeavouring to have an improved airport provided I have also endeavoured to protect the rights of the people whose homes will be acquired and are being acquired because of the action which will take place. 
The statement was made that my performance on the airport question left something to be desired. The facts of the matter are that in the last 16 months something has been achieved on behalf of Brisbane that was not achieved during the 23 years prior to that when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government and a member of the Liberal Party represented the electorate of Lilley. If knowledge of the airport area is thought to be lacking- 
 I was misrepresented last evening by the honourable member for Petrie in the statement he made about my interest. I am pointing out that during the 16 months that I have been the honourable member for Lilley considerable amounts of money have been allocated to and expended on the Brisbane Airport development and I have played my part in this regard in representing the people who elected me to this chamber. 
We have heard contributions from 2 members of the Opposition. The first was from the honourable mem ber for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who seemed to suggest that this genuine attempt by the Australian Labor Party Government to improve the international airport terminal in Brisbane had some political overtones. It is true that every move made by the Government to benefit an area or people is opposed by members opposite. They knock every attempt this Government makes which could prove beneficial to the people of Australia. The second contribution was from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Some research has been conducted into his efforts on behalf of the people of Brisbane. After all one must examine the record of people to see how they have performed in the past. He had been a member of this House for 6 years during which time he made one speech about the Brisbane airport. About ten or eleven months after the Labor Government was elected he suddenly became aware that Brisbane had an airport and he made a few speeches, not that there was much substance in what he said, on the subject during adjournment debates. For somebody who claims - I do not like the cheap politicking that goes on in certain areas - to be interested in people to stand here and say that he has had the interest of the people at heart and we find his approach is phoney, I suggest- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! That is not a point of order. The honourable member can ask for the word to be withdrawn. I suggest that the honourable member use the proper procedures. 
