I address my question to the Prime Minister. A number of distinguished and retired senior officers of the merchant navy and the Royal Australian Navy have asked me to make representations concerning the future of the Customs House at Circular Quay in Sydney. Would the Prime Minister be able to advise me of the present position in this matter and the trend of the Government's consideration of the future of the Customs House? 
Over a number of years and in a number of Parliaments we have been treated to a series of very entertaining, almost Gilbert and Sullivan-like performances from the honourable and distinguished member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I thought that there was one aspect of his speech on the motion for the adjournment of the House this evening which ought to be brought to the attention of our honourable and learned AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes).  When the honourable member began his speech he cast doubts upon the integrity of what had been presented by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He said that it was a wrong presentation. Therefore, I ask the Attorney-General to clarify in this Parliament, for the benefit of the record, whether or not it is true that a distinguished and eminent member of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria did in fact incite Australian troops in action, at war. to mutiny and to throw down their arms in the face of the enemy. That is either true or false. 
The honourable member for Grayndler may not with integrity in this Parliament cast doubts upon the validity of the comment made by the honourable member for La Trobe, and 1 hope that the honourable, distinguished and learned Attorney-General will handle that matter in the appropriate way, because he will recall, as he is old enough now to do so, that even 30 years ago when the last Great War started those gentlemen who sit on the opposite side of the Parliament until the middle of 1941, when the paradise of the people's proletariat was attacked, were consistently against the war effort. They were doing everything they could to destroy the morale of the Australian forces engaged in the war against Nazi Germany. The comments made tonight by the honourable member for Grayndler were therefore ill-considered and, in my judgment, should be refuted. 
1 address my question to the Minister for External Territories. For the sake of the record, can he refute the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition during his recent visit to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, which is administered by Australia under trusteeship from the United Nations, that it is the 'only remaining colony in the world, with possibly the worst labour conditions in the world'? Will the Minister assure  Mr Toua  Kapena, a member of the House of Assembly and the Papuan Ministerial Member for Labour, that the Leader of the Opposition did not speak for Australia when he branded him as an Uncle Tom, or submissive slave, in front of his own people? 
I rise to make some comments on the remarks by my friend the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  particularly in view of the fact that my friend the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has indicated that unless somebody can convince him of the wisdom of not doing so he might be prepared to support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. My friend the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has also indicated that he proposes to support the amendment on the basis that this would lead to positive action for the selection of a site for a major airport to service the metropolis of Sydney. I say to the honourable member for La Trobe in particular that I feel that the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Newcastle ought to have been sought to be included as paragraph 1 (k) because the positioning and development of major airports, as the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has made clear, is a problem to be resolved after great investigation, after analyses of the most technical nature, and after considerations involving the governments of the States  and  local government communities in the various major cities. i would imagine that this is the type of conclusion that can be reached after a long period of time by appropriately equipped people in the technical field and, in the first place, by the advisers of the Government within the Department of Civil Aviation. I feet that if the amendment, for example, were carried and subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1 read: That a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the effects of aircraft noise on persons, property, institutions and communities with which is associated the positioning and development of major airports' it might be contested that this in fact does not mean that the Committee could set out to make decisions about or recommendations concerning the positioning and development of major airports unless these matters were to be directly associated with the effects of aircraft noise as such. Therefore, I have suggested to honourable members that the only sensible way in which the amendment could be put would be to include it as paragraph 1 (k) and to make it separate, because it is in fact an absolutely separate matter. Surely a distinguished and honourable gentleman like the honourable member for La Trobe or the honourable member for Bradfield, who is in his own right a lawyer, will agree that this is a reasonable assumption on my part and that if they do vote for the amendment they will only be supporting the honourable member for Newcastle in some political tactics that he is putting forward here this evening. They would not do it for that purpose. They would vote for the amendment only because of its actual validity and I recommend to both honourable gentlemen, including my learned colleague the honourable member for Bradfield for whom I have a great respect, that they consider the amendment and ask themselves whether voting for it would be justifiable in terms of intellectual integrity or whether it would be simply a case of supporting tactics that will  bt  an irritation here in the House. 
However, I seriously challenge the sense of the amendment. I know full well that the honourable member for Newcastle and other members of the Opposition, were they in Government, would never tolerate a select committee of the House of Representatives being responsible for what will be one of the most complicated policy decisions facing all of the governments functioning within this federation today. There is no doubt about this because there have been many illustrations of it in the past when the Australian Labor Party was in government. When faced with similar situations it flatly refused to allow this sort of distortion of recommendations to be put forward to the House by a select committee. Now I would like to say something about the atmosphere created by my learned friend the honourable member for Bradfield in relation to supersonic aircraft. I am sure that my former colleague on the Printing Committee would grant me the privilege of saying something to the Parliament about this matter because I am privileged to be one of the gentlemen in this place who have flown in an aircraft - at supersonic speeds, I share this privilege with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  - and I am prepared to say that people who think in terms of the modern aerodrome and in terms of the supersonic speeds attained by Concorde type aircraft should realise that these aircraft when approaching an airport will be flying at subsonic speeds. Probably 300, 400 or 500 miles from the airport the aircraft will have reduced its speed to subsonic speed. At this speed it should be no noisier than aircraft operating today. 
There are many problems associated with aircraft which fly at supersonic speeds. Since the advent of supersonic flight we have discovered many problems with both military and civil aircraft which fly at this speed. No doubt as we progress and as such aircraft are used to a greater extent, more technoligical problems will be revealed. 
The noise from the aircraft when it is taking off will be about the same as is experienced today with the Boeing 707 or the Boeing 747 because the aircraft will not reach supersonic speed immediately it is airborne. It will climb gradually for 300 or 400 miles and will fly at supersonic speeds for about only 70% of a 3,000-mile leg. There should not be a great deal of alarm for the future. I know that there are many problems associated with supersonic flight. They will be technological problems and should not be related to noise, which is the matter of interest to the Select Committee. Those problems will be substantially worse in the case of supersonic aircraft flying at subsonic speeds than they are today in the case of ordinary subsonic aircraft. Australia, through its Department of Civil Aviation, has properly taken a leading role in these matters and has displayed a real interest in noise abatement. The International Civil Aviation Organisation, whose headquarters are in Montreal, is aware of the part Australia is playing. Overseas conferences - one in South America and one last year in 
Canada - have observed that Australia is seeking to interest people in these matters. The ICAO seeks to regulate, to develop and to keep safe civil aviation throughout the world. We believe that in conjunction with the many other matters which the ICAO examines it should examine the problem of aircraft noise. But whatever we achieve in this respect it must be remembered that the airline industry is marginal the world over. Even in socialist countries very little profit is earned from the activities of civil airlines. In America, Europe and the United Kingdom government subsidies in many forms are necessary to keep the major civil airlines operating. I make this point to stress that every move with a bearing on the economics of civil aviation is vital and important. My friend the honourable member for Bradfield said in an emotional moment that nobody was prepared to speak for the little man and that it was the aircraft operator who was to be considered first so as to keep his operation economic and allow him to perform his function, under licence from the Government, in a proper way. The implication was that the profits accruing to the airline operators, wherever they might be, were so great that the rights of the common man were being ignored. I would point out to my friend that in Australia enormous pressures have been exerted upon the Government for subsidies in every form to be granted to people operating aircraft in this country. 
I would point out to the right honourable member for Melbourne that subsidies for airlines were known in Australia when he sal on the treasury bench. lt was clearly understood by him and his colleagues in 1947 and 1948 that government subsidies in a variety of forms too wide to be put in detail here were absolutely necessary. As I have pointed out, all over the world today the support of taxpayers has been essential in order to keep the major airlines flying. The airlines provide a great public transport service. In the circumstances, and having regard to the technological problems that exist, I think it is wrong of the honourable member for Bradfield to say that the man in the street is the one who suffers. The fact is that if you are to have modern forms of air transport you must accept a certain amount of inconvenience from noise. No matter how far from your metropolis you locate your airport it is inevitable that the local government authority will encourage people to build homes in the vicinity because so many hundreds of people work in a variety of services associated with an airport. Come what may, noise or no noise, they will want to live close to their place of employment. There will be pressure which will lead to a rise in property values close to the airport. The Commonwealth does not have the constitutional authority to deny State or local government authorities the right to develop around an airport. 
Because there are geographical limitations to the airport and the Commonwealth is supreme only over the land that comprises the airport. If the Victorian Government is prepared to grant permission through its local government authority for the creation of services around the new airport at Tullamarine, inevitably people will live there and in a few years time we will be faced with all the old problems again. In the United States there has been a great deal of conflict in the north west - in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. There have been all sorts of problems in and around New York. La Guardia Airport is still being utilised. The noise problem there is enormous. The J. F. Kennedy International Airport is already inadequate. The O'Hare Airport at Chicago, which is the finest in the world, is one of the busiest in the world, and it has a great noise problem. The problems associated with San Francisco and Los Angeles are so vast that if we were faced with them I am sure that we would be happy to band over to local government authorities as much responsibility as we could. 
Let me show how the American Congress has dealt with these problems. Today the local government authority responsible for the City of San Francisco and the City of Los Angeles faces litigation amounting to more than $ 1,000m. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting the House had been considering an amendment proposed by the honourable member for Newcastle. For some time, following the speech of the Minister for National Development who was a former Minister for Civil Aviation, I had been devoting myself to convincing the House and the honourable member for Newcastle that this was an inappropriate amendment and not in the interests of the civil aviation industry. I am hopeful that the honourable member for Newcastle will withdraw his amendment for I am quite sure that this would be the most intelligent course of action on his part. My honourable and gallant friend, the honourable member for La Trobe, and my honourable and learned friend, the honourable member for Bradfield, have given some indication of support for the amendment. I believe that I have put before the House sufficient reason to convince the honourable member for Newcastle that he should withdraw his amendment and I confidently predict that his action will be clear in the near future. I am also very much of the view that the honourable member for La Trobe and, I trust, the honourable member for Bradfield will see the wisdom of what I have recommended to them and will appreciate that the passing of this amendment would, in fact, have only a delaying effect upon the working of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
I have spent a considerable time explaining to the House facts in relation to supersonic aircraft and to Australia's position in the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The Minister has already explained in great detail the forward position of leadership in this matter that has been adopted by the Commonwealth Government's representatives in the International Civil Aviation Organisation over recent years. I have also explained the great problems that have faced the Government of the United States of America, in particular on the north western and north eastern side of the American continent. 
The honourable member who has interrupted in an effort to prevent me from convincing his colleague that this amendment should be withdrawn has deliberately tried to occupy my time. As is well known in this House, the honourable member for Grayndler is a superb tactician, almost as superb as the man who is speaking. 
I rise to make some comments on the statement that we have been discussing during the morning sitting which is a statement made in the House by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  as a result of certain statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in this place on 5th March. A lot of material unrelated to this matter has been introduced into the discussion and I want, therefore, to bring the debate back to the precise issues that we should be discussing. In the first place, on 5th March the Leader of the Opposition made it perfectly clear that during his recent visit to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, at a time when he was engaged in discussions with the District Council at Rabaul there was an interruption, as a result of a statement that he made, by the distinguished District Commissioner at Rabaul. The Leader of the Opposition made it clear that this interruption as such offended him and. in speaking to this House and describing the situation, he said: 
On this occasion the District Commissioner had to be put in his place. 
He made it clear, by inference, that his subsequent action was designed to put this distinguished and senior civil service member - a representative of the Queen and of the Commonwealth of Australia - in his place, and he had done that. But he then went on to say something which is the direct cause of the statement made by the Minister this morning. He said that because this District Commissioner had to be put in his place he was withdrawn from his post - that as a direct result of this particular circumstance the District Commissioner, in a manner which we can only interpret as being discreditable to him and which we can only describe as being a reflection upon his integrity and his dedication to duty, was then posted away from his position. lt is on behalf of the integrity of the District Commissioner and to defend the District Commissioner that the Minister has brought before the House this statement. The Minister's statement makes it clear that what the Leader of the Opposition has said is quite wrong. It may be a matter of judgment for the Leader of the Opposition to state that a member of the civil service had to be put in his place, and in this House, under privilege, he is at liberty to say that. But is is quite wrong for the Leader of the Opposition to imply that as a direct result of that circumstance this honourable and distinguished member of the civil service had been posted away almost in a dishonourable manner from the situation that he occupied - taken away from those responsibilities which are vital and important to this Parliament and which he was discharging in Rabaul. This is the fundamental factor to be brought home. This is a matter of credibility. lt is a matter of the credibility of the word of the Leader of the Opposition in a personal sense. 
The Leader of the Opposition has risen in this place and attacked the honour and integrity of a man who sits on the far flung boundaries of the Territories of this country. The Leader of the Opposition has attacked him personally because he knows he cannot answer back. The Minister of State for External Territories rose in this place because it is his duty to defend the honour and the integrity of that distinguished District Commissioner. I hope that we shall never sec the day when Ministers of State will cease to remember that their responsibilities go beyond these 4 walls and that they involve people. Time and again over the last dozen years there have been illustrations of honourable gentlemen opposite, for purely political reasons, rising in their places to denigrate, dishonour and attack people who they know cannot answer back. 
The fact of the matter has been brought forward by the Minister. It is knowledge in this House, clearly stated by the Minister, that on 26th November the distinguished District Commissioner applied orally to  His  Honour the Administrator for leave to which he was. from information already put before the House, absolutely entitled. On 24th December, some days before the honourable, learned and distinguished Leader of the Opposition graced the Territory of Papua and New Guinea by his presence, arriving in a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft, it was confirmed in writing to the District Commissioner that it would be appropriate for him to go on leave. At the end of the first week in January these events took place and now we find ourselves in the position where, to make a political' point and to achieve some form of advantage, the Leader of the Opposition has attacked the integrity of this District Commissioner. Not only has he done that but he has, so help me, fired a vicious, malicious and .horrifying torpedo into the morale and the courage of the wives and the children of every family in the civil service of the Commonwealth of Australia in Papua and New Guinea. He has done it to his eternal personal discredit. 
Let it be said to people who find it easy to be critical from afar of the activities of members of the civil service, that the truth is that members pf the civil service look to this House of Representatives - to this Parliament - to defend them, and to defend them above all from attacks of the snide, vicious, unreliable and irresponsible nature that characterises the words of the Leader of the Opposition. Let me make this point perfectly clear: The Minister made his statement as a direct result of the statement of the Leader of. the Opposition. There can be no doubt that the Minister's statement is accurate. There can be no doubt that it is common knowledge in the Territory that when the Leader and his party were there they were impervious to criticism. They made it quite clear to all who questioned the wisdom and the sagacity of what they were saying and doing that the people who were listening to them would have to put up with it and get ready for the results if ever the honourable gentleman became Prime Minister, whether they liked it or not. This is what was said with great clarity in Kavieng and Rabaul and other places throughout the Territory. I say to the Leader of the Opposition that it is to his discredit. After ali, the honourable and gallant gentleman some years ago was prepared to risk his life in defence of that very Territory. 
For some political advantage, to attract the warm feeling of the maniacal left wing that moves on his flank, he went to the Territory and with an almost homicidal political tendency attacked the very integrity of the Administration through the person of one man who could not answer back. That man reflects in his person and his dedication to duty the success of the Government's policies and the integrity of the Government that is so well represented in this place by the Minister for External Territories. 
I present the first report of the Printing Committee. 
Report  -  by leave - adopted. 
I present the second report of the Printing Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
In replying in this debate to the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  I must say that I find myself impressed by his dedication to the Socialist concepts which characterise his general political philosophy and which emerge from time to time throughout his speeches. They were particularly evident here tonight. The honourable member for Barton refuses to understand the most elementary facts about the taxation processes in this community. For example, he says that it is grossly unfair that people who are on incomes which require them to pay a low rate of taxation should be unable to receive rebates equivalent to those received by people whose incomes require them to pay higher rates of taxation. I put to him very simply that the falsity of the issues he put forward earlier is that people would be penalised if they ran out of the capacity to get some measure of tax rebate. Surely he must understand that an income which is taxable is, for the purposes and in the context to which we refer to it, something which has to be earned. People who work hard, devote themselves to their duty and have the good fortune as a result of their endeavours to have high incomes are also the people who provide the substantial: amounts of taxation in this community. Perhaps I may use a phrase which has been used here before. If in the welfare state this is a process of robbing Peter to pay Paul, then it is the Peters to whom I am referring, and it is the Pauls on behalf of whom my friend, the honourable member for Barton, is complaining. I urge honourable members opposite to beware of the day when the community runs out of Peters and finds itself with a large population of Pauls. In those circumstances and in that environment we will find democratic Socialism taking on the iron fist of authoritarianism. 
My friends in the Labor Party object to my reminding this House that they have been the architects of nationalised medicine over a long period of time. In the United Kingdom today can be seen the results of nationalised medicine. This was carried out in the Government of Clement Attlee in the postwar period by the great demagogue from Wales whose name was Aneurin Bevan. The practices which were introduced in that country have today reduced the United Kingdom to a position where it is utterly dependent upon medical practitioners from countries far away from the United Kingdom who never practised in that country before the war or even during the depression years. Today something like 60% or more of the confinements in that country are carried out in private homes and are subject only to the influence and control of the midwives. 
Having said that I will take the trend of this debate back to the origin of the Bill. The Bill originates from the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during his policy speech in October last year. The Prime Minister made reference at that time to a number of facts of history which relate to the national health scheme that the Government has developed over the period since the former Minister for Health,  Sir Earle  Page, introduced the scheme in the early 1950s- The improvements that have taken place over that period have allowed us to establish and identify some of the facts which we repeated to the people of Australia in our policy speech of 1969. Today we describe our objectives and we can point to our achievements. We have a full hospital benefits scheme for hospital patients who are chronically ill. There are supplementary nursing home benefits for patients needing and receiving intensive nursing care, and there are special benefits for handicapped children under 16 years of age. We have medical and hospital benefits without payment of contribution for persons receiving unemployment or sickness benefit or for families whose income is below $39 a week. There are also medical and hospital benefits for migrants during their first 2 months in Australia. These are achievements which are worth recording here in the Parliament. They seem to have been ignored by our friends on the other side of the House in assessing the background of the introduction of this legislation. 
We have achieved a situation in which there is special financial assistance to the States for the development of co-ordinated programmes of home care to strengthen home nursing and home care services, particularly for the frail and aged folk in our community. This cannot be denied, although it has been derided by the honourable member for Barton in the sense that he felt that the assistance provided is not enough. But the complaint of the Labor Party always will be: No matter what you do, we can do better, and at the taxpayers' expense we will provide more and more for the community in the hope that the people will ultimately vote us into government. The truth of the matter is that the policy of the Labor Party, if followed to its obvious conclusion, would lead Australia into developing a national characteristic of hypochondria. This has been clearly revealed in the United Kingdom over the last 15 or 16 years and it has been reflected in the hundreds and hundreds of millions of pounds sterling which have been wasted on that appalling national health scheme that was inflicted upon that unhappy country. In his policy speech in 1969 the Prime Minister said: 
All this has been done. It has gone far to eliminate financial hardship for people with special needs. Only one problem of any significant size remains in relation to people with lengthy illnesses. Some people after paying health insurance contributions for many years find that they are obliged to spend long period? under intensive care in nursing homes as distinct from hospitals. 
Here is an admission that there is a problem. The Prime Minister continued: 
We shall negotiate with the health insurance funds to arrange for the payment of increased benefits, properly related to reasonable nursing home fees, for persons who have been regular contributors to health insurance funds and who need intensive nursing home care. 
He then spoke about the improvements in the national health scheme, and he concluded by using the executive series of phrases in his policy speech. He said: 
Commonwealth medical benefits and fund benefits will be increased so that the difference between the benefit entitlements and the common fee charged by doctors will not at any time exceed $5 even for the most complicated and costly surgical procedures. For simpler procedures which are less expensive, the difference between the benefits and doctors* common fees will be very much less. 
I should imagine that any rational adult in this country in 1970 who had lived past the age of 25 or 30 years would feel that the millennium had arrived when a statement of this nature could be made in a policy speech by the Prime Minister of Australia. There is no doubt that in this wealthy, prosperous country which is entering the 1970s with advantages that are without parallel in the world, the population may consider itself to be cared for in the extreme and provided with a standard of health services which 25 years ago would have been regarded as impossible. I am sure that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  can well remember the time when the former member for Parkes was in this Parliament and spoke about  5%  of unemployment being an acceptable level of unemployment in an economy. At that time the honourable member for Wilmot would have regarded it as beyond comprehension that things of the nature mentioned in the policy speech could be said. In 1970, as a consequence of 20 years of sound, prudent, discreet and responsible government, this situation has been reached. 1 want to turn now to a particular aspect of this National Health Bill which has been introduced by the Minister for Health, lt has attracted a good deal of attention in the medical profession and amongst those in the general public who are interested in these matters. I point out that throughout the world there has been a trend towards specialist training in the medical profession. This has been true in the United Kingdom, notwithstanding the fearful impact of the ghastly Socialist policies in that unfortunate country, lt has also been the trend in the United States of America where the free and unfettered choice of the medical profession can be reflected in the developments that have taken place in a variety of medical universities throughout that country. People have realised with the advancement of science and technology that there is a great attraction to research and to developing a particular special quality, or specialty. They have realised that they would be able to lead the good life, to have a good income, to be able to withstand the high impact of the fearful level of taxation which exists in these modern democracies and at the same time make a reasonable contribution. With a bit of luck they will be able to avoid getting up at half past 1 in the morning, or 2 o'clock, 2.30 or 4.30, and rushing out to look after some unfortunate person who has been involved in an accident or who has had some sort of seizure or attack. This tendency to go for the good life is reasonable. It can be seen in almost every form of life in our community. It is reflected, some say, in almost all forms of life other than in the political arena. If you have been here in this House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  at 3 o'clock in the morning on some occasions, you will understand exactly what I mean. If the planners who would have us here on Fridays and Mondays could arrange it, the hours would be easier for us. I accept the fact that a medical practitioner who sees an opportunity to avoid the type of life which is characteristic of general practitioners in the 1920s and 1930s will tend to avoid that life if he can, and this is what has happened. 
The number of general practitioners has diminished. The family doctor has disappeared. He has almost completely disappeared in the United States of America, he has almost vanished in the United Kingdom - unhappy country - and in Canada he has tended to move to the United States of America to occupy the vacancies which have been created in that country or he has tended to go into specialist service in the great cities of Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. In the light of these circumstances, once the proposals of the Government were understood and studied by the general practitioners throughout the country, they began to realise that those proposals would lead to a situation in which the average citizen, by a small extra payment, would be able to have specialist services which, in 99 cases out of 100, he believes are more valuable because the specialist is more highly trained and better qualified. That is a simple and human enough position for the average citizen to be in. The Government felt that, with the differentia] rebates, the average person could come along and say: 'If my wife is having a confinement it will not cost me a great deal to have a specialist look after her. I want this done. I want the referral.' Under the existing situation in most of the States the general practitioner has to say: As this is what you wish I will refer you.' It would be only in the rarest of circumstances that a general practitioner would say to a patient: 'Allow me to make it clear to you that this is a referral which I shall not recommend because it would be wrong for me to do so.' The system does not work that way, and humanity is not built that way. 
I have said that the impact on general practice should be looked at by the Parliament. The Government holds the view that these proposals will not have an adverse impact upon the general practitioner in Australia. The Government admits that in the countries to which I have referred - the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada - there has been a diminution of the number of general practitioners. The Government said quite recently that this fact is associated with other matters. In Australia where in recent years there have been some 6,500 general practitioners the position has been static. The Government's view, as I understand it, is that if these proposals do lead to a marked diminution of the number of general practitioners within Australia, the Government aware of the fact that the success of its national health scheme must depend upon the co-operation and the existence of sufficient general practitioners, will then take steps to rectify the position. The Prime Minister stated at a Press conference in Canberra some time ago that he holds the view that this diminution will not occur. 
The general practice section of the New South Wales branch of the AMA had a comment to make which I would like to put on record. It said: 
It has been apparent for some years that a decline is occurring in general practice. I believe that in the near future the profession, the universities and the Government will have to consider this matter conjointly at great depth and to evolve perhaps even a replacement system However, this is for the future since this would be a very long term process. 
The proposed scheme will have a much shorter term detrimental effect on general practice. It is already apparent that general practitioner services in particularly the country area and the rapidly expanding outer areas of the major cities are already strained. It follows that any significant reduction in the number of general practitioners would lead to a decline in services. 
I have heard nobody deny that this is the fact. The article continues: 
This could even involve difficulty in continuing services in the home. 
The cause of the problem is that the differential rebate  system  which is quite justifiable in itself, is bound up wilh the five dollar moiety. It has been said that general practitioners fear that this will lead to a stampede to specialists. There will not be a stampede but there will be a significant swing to having a specialist do the job'. This tendency will develop as society becomes more status symbol minded. 
This tendency will cause overutilisation of expensive specialist services where they are not justified on medical grounds. It will also lead to progressive general practitioner dissatisfaction with conditions of practice and consequently a lowering of morale. Hence the number of general practitioners will fall by four consequential means. 
Further encourage young graduates to specialise. 
Discourage graduates with specialist degrees from considering entering general practice. 
Encourage general practitioners with specialist degrees to convert to full time specialists. 
Discourage the inflow of general practitioners from the United Kingdom . . . 
The reference to the United Kingdom is an unhappy one because Australia is receiving a growing number of general practitioners from the United Kingdom. I would be interested to hear from the 6 general practitioners in the seats of the Labor Party an explanation of this flow. Surely they cannot all be tories in the extreme who are coming as migrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. It has been suggested here by the general practice section of the Australian Medical Association that the United States of America may appear more attractive. The Minister has told me that their fears will not be justified. One of the significant reasons why they will not be justified is that within the present structure of general practice a number of highly qualified people are participating as general practitioners. In many medical groups there are Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons, London and Edinburgh, and Fellows of other colleges who are capable of being specialists and capable of rendering specialist treatment but who, by virtue of the circumstances in which they have found themselves - which has often been described as 'unable to get into the hospitals in an appropriate way' - have found it necessary to go into general practice. I am assured by the Minister that he will make it clear to the House in due course that these people who are Fellows of the royal colleges will be regarded as specialists whether or not they are at the present time partially engaged in general practice. This is a very significant, vital decision and to me it does eliminate point 2 that I have just put before the House, that is, that the present scheme would discourage graduates with specialist degrees from considering entering general practice. 
It also answers the theory that the present scheme would encourage general practitioners with specialist degrees to convert to full time specialists. That conversion will take place and it has taken place in the past. As a medical officer gets to the stage where he is about to have a second coronary occlusion or cerebral haemorrhage he is likely to find it necessary to get some reduction in the 60 or 70 hours of work a week. This is a disadvantage of the general practitioner not shared by those Socialist members of the profession who work from 9 to 5 and are never called upon when in regular government employment to go out and do anything after hours. I hope that that point will attract some notice in the appropriate quarters. 
I do not feel that there is any need for me to go to greater length in dealing with those details that have been put to and fro across this chamber in relation to the schedules. In conclusion, I compliment the Minister on the work that he has done in most difficult circumstances and I believe that his own resolution, his patience and his forbearance have stood him in very good stead, for he moves in this field surrounded by political snipers, and surrounded by the medical profession not fully comprehensive of what is in fact being put before the Parliament and not having the time to make a close study of these issues. He has done a first class job for the Government and he deserves congratulations from all who are interested in seeing Australia have a valuable national health scheme that will not create a country full of hypochondriacs. [Quorum formed.] 
Will the Minister for Repatriation give consideration to enabling the local repatriation committees, which were formed after World War II - and very few of them are still in existence - to assist persons who have served in Vietnam and in other wars since the Korean War and World War II, as I understand that at present there are some restrictions on their ability to help these ex-servicemen? 
 With all respect, I am talking about the basis upon which the Labor Party's defence policy has evolved. Is it true that the Labor Party does see no measure of threat to the survival and development of Australia arising from a consideration of what the Communists in Moscow and in Peking have been doing between 1948 and 1970? Can the honourable member answer that question for me yea or nay? 
This is fundamental to the whole approach of the Labor Party. Does it see any threat emerging from the Communists in Peking or Moscow? It is apparent for all to understand that the USSR is in the process of becoming what we would describe as a maritime superpower. It is becoming a maritime superpower because it will seek to impress the potential enemy as well as the potential friend. Those who have been friends of the USSR, those who have lived close to the USSR and those who have in common with the USSR, the particular type of government which is known in that country are aware that they may not change their own approach to their citizens and they may not change their own policies without influence being reflected back upon them from 
Moscow. Anybody who has any doubts about this matter should talk to  Mr Dubcek  in Ankara and get the clear story from him. 
If the development of the maritime super-power is going to show itself in the Indian Ocean we must ask ourselves why this is being done. Should the Commonwealth of Australia seek to create a political environment in which we will be able to stand in the eyes of the world and be recognised as being conscious of the fact that the maritime super-power is coming into our area? It is a simple enough matter. We do not do it as a reaction of terror: we do not do it because we hold the view that we are going to be attacked in the immediate future; we do it because it is necessary for us to have a posture which will earn respect. The people in Kuala Lumpur, in Bangkok and in Djakarta know that if we have a record in the past it is a record worthy of respect. The honourable and gallant gentleman for Chisholm, with other members in this House of Representatives, is a living manifestation of this. I say to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who is smiling, that in the days when he was extremely young this threat existed, and I will forgive him for his lack of familiarity with the subject matter. 
If we see this position and consider the terms of the motion related to the maritime problem - to the aircraft carrier - we have some interesting considerations to examine. It is many years since aircraft carriers have been built. The only aircraft carriers that have been built in recent times are the giant aircraft carriers built by the United States of America and a number of smaller strategic carriers built by the Republic of France and in the United Kingdom. If Australia were to seek, at this stage, to go to the markets of the world to procure for itself aircraft carriers, apart from the light fleet carriers which we possess, it is inevitable that we would have to purchase ships that have been sailing the seas of the world for a long time. Therefore, we look at the Royal Navy and ponder the thought that there will be some improvement in our posture if old ships are established in Cockburn Sound. I have some serious doubts as to the validity of this, but I mention that so far as the Asian nations are concerned the presence of forces which the United 
Kingdom Government is going to withdraw in the next few years, if it had any significance in the past, would be of significance in the immediate future if those forces were related to the Indian Ocean and were based in or able to operate from Cockburn Sound. 
As I have pointed out, this entire consideration rests fundamentally upon the assessment of the threat to and the assessment of Australia's future. The Australian Labor Party, in almost all of the speeches it has made over recent years, being in opposition has found itself appealing to the Australian people for votes and has encouraged, probably in the view that this would be the most successful political gesture of all, the development of what is a pacifist outlook. I see no reason to believe that one must deride a pacifist simply because he is absolutely convinced that he must never adopt a posture which could be described as aggressive. The only danger in this is that it may destory the moral fibre of our country and make it more subject to the political pressures that will emerge from the presence of the maritime super-power in the oceans around Australia. 
As I said, I do not believe that the Australian Labor Party generally has adopted this point of view - and not only in recent years. This has been true of the Australian Labor Party for 30 or 40 years. It always has been composed of people who adopt an attitude of pacificism and of encouragement of those - who see no real reason for the acceptance of a threat from overseas. This was true in 1939. As the honourable member for Chisholm said earlier, it was not until 1942 when the then Labor Government was confronted with a situation of terror that the then Prime Minister of Australia who was a very frightened man - indeed, one has only to hear the recording of that voice making its appeal to the United States of America to recognise terror in a very real form; it was there- 
It is quite wrong to say that he was terrified because of the actions of the Menzies Government. He was terrified because he thought that the carriers of Admiral Nagumo would come along the coast off Sydney and blow him to bits in Canberra. That is why he was terrified. That goes for the rest of the Labor Party at the same time. The honourable members for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  Swan  (Mr Bennett)  and Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  no doubt will have comments to make about the significance of the defence posture to Western Australia. They must relate it to a threat to Western Australia. The threat that is emerging is the growth of this maritime super power - the USSR - and the growth of its forces in the oceans near Western Australia. This is the essence of the whole consideration this morning and illustrates the vital importance to Western Australia of the strategic relationship with the Cape of Good Hope. 
I do not believe for one moment that my friend, the honourable member for Fremantle, will rise in his place in this House and say that there is no strategic significance whatsoever in the naval base at Simonstown. I do not believe for one second that he would assert that the planning for defence against the maritime super power, the USSR, ought to be on a basis that ignored reality. I do not believe that for one moment. I believe that he is quite capable of recognising the strategic facts of life. But he is bound by the fact that fundamentally the majority of his associates and the majority of people in the Australian Labor Party assert, have asserted and, in fact, virtually are governed by the concept that no real threat to the future of Australia is presented from the Communists in Moscow and in Peking. 
I am asking the honourable member for Robertson whether he does or does not believe that any real threat to the future of Australia exists from the Communists in Moscow and in Peking. 
The answer to my question is that the honourable member does not really believe that any threat exists. Surely it would be reasonable for him to answer this point. The honourable member asks me whether I would have a military pact with South Africa. I say this to him: If South Africa were prepared to cooperate in certain particular strategic environments with Australia, Australia would be, as is the Government of the United Kingdom at this time, prepared to acknowledge that co-operation. Whether there would be a need for a pact, as the honourable member has put it, is dependent upon the environment in which a threat is seen to develop. Let me assure the honourable member for Robertson that if Australia were attacked he would be among the first to do what the late Prime Minister did in 1942. As my colleague from Chisholm put it so vividly, he screamed for the help that he denied to the poor unfortunate people of Saigon. That is the truth. When the honourable member is confronted with this form of terror, if ever he is - and I trust that he will live long enough to know the experience when he doos undergo it, he will never forget it. I support the honourable member for Chisholm and look forward to the participation in the debate of those distinguished and gallant members who sit opposite. 
I present the third report of the Printing Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. Is the Postmaster-General aware of widespread unemployment among writers, artists and technicians engaged in the television industry in Australia? If so, will he advise the House of recent considerations by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board of the quota of Australian programmes to be shown over the next 4 years? Will the revised quotas be debated by this House before they are implemented? 
 I wish to congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on the comments which he made during his contribution to the debate on the  1970  Budget. The honourable member said: 'At least I say what I think and I do not speak to earn votes'. I was attracted to this comment, and I listened carefully to what the honourable member had to say to seek justification for the comment. I regret to say that I became confused as his speech went on, because it seemed to me that the honourable member has not studied the speeches which were made by his leaders in recent years during budget debates. The honourable member has completely forgotten the budget programmes in the post-war period when his own Party, the Australian Labor Party, was in office and Australia was suffering from inflation as a result of the great economic distortions between  1939  and  1945.  Not only has the honourable member forgotten this, but obviously he has not made a close study of the policy speeches of leaders of the Australian Labor Party who have from time to time during election campaigns - in  1953, 1954  and  1955  in particular - made enormous gestures towards a welfare state in Australia. Apart from the first election in  1954  it can be fairly said that they have not failed in their political ambitions to attract Australians by the process of earning votes by promises. It was this type of policy to which the honourable member for Corio was referring when he said: T do not speak to earn votes'. If I were to rely for my interpretation of the reaction of the people of Australia to the  1970  Budget of the Commonwealth upon the comments of members of the Australian Labor Party and the Press, I might come to the conclusion that this could be fairly said of the Commonwealth Government, because the Commonwealth Government's Budget has not attracted in the Press what I would describe as political reaction, which would be indicative of a great swing of votes towards the Government. 
The honourable member for Corio - I wish to spend only a few moments dealing with these points - was critical of the income tax reductions which were announced last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  He seems to have completely forgotten that at the time of the  1969  Federal election when his own leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  was making a policy speech in which he promised substantial variations in our system of income taxation he stated that the policy commitment of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  -to reduce the level of income taxation on the lower and middle levels over the next 3 Budgets by more than $200m was not enough. 
The criticism levelled this week that the Treasurer's gesture is designed to earn votes seems peculiar when one remembers that less than 12 months ago the leaders of the Labor Party were arguing that the Government's commitments were not sufficient. The honourable member for Corio was also extremely critical of the small increases in social services and repatriation pensions. He appears to have forgotten the history of economic assessments by his Party. If be examines the Budgets of 1946, 1947, 1948 and 1949 it will be clear to him that when the economic health of the country was at stake the leaders of his Party, when in power, acted in what could only be described as a prudent and discreet way. 
Let me now refer to one or two points made in this debate by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  The matters to which they referred were absolutely vital but unfortunately 1 cannot afford in this debate to devote too much time to them. I merely indicate my concurrence in the views they expressed. The honourable member for Hume referred to the significance of law and order within the Australian community and to the vital significance of Government considerations in relation to the future of the wool industry. These are matters vital to the welfare of Australia and matters which over the next 12 months the Government must consider carefully. I am sure that during the remainder of this financial year the Government's policies will prove beneficial to the nation. 
The honourable member for Boothby referred to the Government's defence programme in recent years and to the grave problem of our survival in a hostile environment which bids fair in the next decade or so to become more sensitive to the intrusion of naval forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics into the Indian Ocean. It is common knowledge that in recent months the Government of the United Kingdom has made special arrangements with the Government of South Africa for the protection of the sea lanes around South Africa. Honourable members opposite may be interested to know, if  Mr Chapman  pincher's claims are correct, that the recently defeated Government of  Mr Wilson  made arrangements to sell to South Africa troop carrying helicopters. I do not think these would be used for maritime defence unless they were equipped with dunking sonar, in which case they would not be of troop carrying size. Obviously there has been some serious reconsideration of policies in recent times by the Labor Party in the United Kingdom. 
Turning to the Budget, 1 would like to remind the House of some of the statements made last week by the Treasurer. These are vital because they are germane to the economic background of the Budget. They are vital because they represent the basis upon which all segments of the Budget are fitted together. The Treasurer said that the Government seeks to provide for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially on payments to the States. Here I would remind members of the Labor Party of a speech made some 2 years ago by the Leader of the Opposition in which he attacked the Government for its alleged failure properly to develop the great metropolitan areas of Australia. He took the line that insufficient funds were being provided to the States to enable them to provide all the services that are so essential to urban development within the great cities. In this year's Budget there has been an enormous increase in essential expenditures on payments to the States. A very large part of this year's estimated increase in expenditure of $795m is attributable to the very large increase in payments to the States. Those payments, including funds required for State works and housing programmes, are estimated at no less than $2,708m or $29 lm more than in 1969-70. Payments to the States will absorb one third of this year's Budget and account for more than one third of the estimated increase of $795m in our total expenditures this year. 
In his critical speech yesterday I would have expected the Leader of the Opposition to concede that in this Budget there was an enormous diversion of resources to the States and to assert that these were insufficient, which is the usual Opposition line of attack, or that too much money was being diverted to the States and that from the vast sums going to the States funds should be diverted for social services and welfare payments. But the Leader of the Opposition seemed to forget his argument of 2 years ago that the most vital problem facing Australia was the provision of services in the vast metropolises of this country. In his speech on the Budget yesterday the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  made little reference to this matter, although in a number of speeches in the last 12 months he has stated that there should be a great diversion of resources towards the States. 
I had hoped tonight to take advantage of the opportunity to refer to the economic background against which the Budget is framed. It is projected that the Australian labour force will increase from 5.1 million in 1968 to 5.6 million in 1971 and 7.2 million by June 1981. Those projections are based on the assumption that the rate of net migration during the period will be 1% of the population per annum. 
An alternative projection, based on a net migration rate of .75% per annum, would give a result of lower than 300,000. Assuming 1% migration the growth rate of the labour force is calculated to be 2.5% per year for the decade from 1971 to 1981 - a little less than the strong growth rate estimated for the 1960s. This means that we must expect in the next 10 years that the incipient inflation which has been spoken of will be constantly present in the Australian economy. In my opinion we have real reason to be proud of the fact that good management in the Australian economy has given us a better result than has been experienced in comparable great countries although their economies are so much greater than our own. 
During the 20 year period from 1949 to 1969 the registered unemployment rate in Australia has not exceeded 3.1%. Over the last 6 or 7 years the rate has never moved outside the range of from .9% to 1.4%, apart from seasonal influences. This shows that for the past 15 years or so industrialised economies like those of the United States of America, Italy, Canada, France and the United Kingdom had much less favourable employment experiences than Australia. I ask honourable members to listen to my words and consider them with the words spoken last night by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, the shadow treasurer of the gentlemen who sit on the Opposition side of the chamber. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that the managers of the Australian economy ought not to be substantially afraid of inflation. He said that he would prefer a degree of inflation with full employment rather than no inflation and a degree of unemployment in the community which would be inconsistent with the social levels that the Labor Party accepts as mandatory in 1970. Of course, we have on record the famous statement by a former honourable member for Parkes that 5% of unemployment in the Australian economy should be accepted as normal. I regard that statement, which he made in 1945 or 1946 in a speech related to the rehabilitation of the vast forces returning from World War II, as being properly quoted only in those circumstances. He knew that in the period of 1937, 1938 and 1939 a much higher level of unemployment had existed. He was looking at the pre-war pattern of performance. In effect he was saying to the House: 'In the light of those circumstances, when we return to the postwar period a figure of 5% will be as good as we can hope to maintain on an average.' In itself this was by no means an unreasonable assessment at that time and in those circumstances by the former honourable member for Parkes. 
I have mentioned these things because they are germane to the background to this Budget. The most vital things that we can do in Australia are to contain the inflation of costs and prices and to maintain employment at the optimum level - that level which is best for the most healthy and most rapid development of the Australian economy. In my judgment, against that background it will be seen that the Treasurer has produced a sound Budget. He made the comment - I think it is worthy of notice - that the demand side will bear watching. He went on to say: 
Consumer spending is currently very buoyant and that situation seems likely to continue. Private spending on plant and equipment and nonresidential building and construction seems set for continued strong growth - there is a wealth of investment opportunities, and such forward indicators as we have clearly suggest this. 
These are the things which would be gravely affected if inflation were to become more significant in the Australian economy and were to grow at a greater rate. The Treasurer also said; 
It may be said that we could equally have achieved the same Budget result by drastic pruning of expenditures or by postponing personal income tax reform. 
I would have been inclined to agree in some measure with that statement. I take the view that if one tries to follow the programme that the Leader of the Opposition set out in his speech - although he had at an earlier stage in his policy speeches indicated that there was a capacity of $l,700m in the future period to about 1974 or 1975 - one must conclude that he would never have given such income tax reductions but would have preferred to have increased social services and repatriation services on a comparative basis in the Australian economy. A study of the economies in the United States. Canada and the United Kingdom would quickly show the honourable member that this type of programme has not been followed by them. As my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said last night, the Leader of the Opposition is on record as having cited the Canadian economy and political management pattern as being the exemplar of the type of rearrangement of the economy and political pattern that he wishes to see developed in Australia. In those circumstances it is only reasonable to assume that he would not have been able to make reductions of taxation in this financial year to any degree greater than the Treasurer has done. 
For purely emotional reasons people are prone to look at the social services commitment in 1970 and conveniently forget that of 1969. Last year the tapered means test was introduced. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said at that time that more than 250,000 people would benefit. Yet I point out that last year some Opposition members said that the 1969-70 Budget should be discarded as being an irresponsible social services budget and more like a bow to vote card than a financial document. I have heard none of those honourable members make similar references tonight. In the circumstances I think it would be only reasonable to read one or two quotations form their speeches on the Budget last year. Be that as it may. it always has been the rule of the Opposition to oppose and of the Government to endea vour to govern. Having read some of the Opposition speeches delivered by some friends and former friends in 1947, 1948 and 1949 I am pretty well aware of the type of criticism that would be offered by honourable members opposite in these circumstances. However I feel that, when my friend the honourable member for Corio said that he did not speak to earn votes, he was being a trifle unfair to honourable members on this side of the House. Certainly he appears to be inconsistent in that he derides the Government for an unpopular Budget and then finds himself in a position where he either believes that we should have done something to present a popular Budget or else he refuses to recognise that we were acting in a manner which was consistent with responsible government in Australia. 
In the last 5 minutes of my speech I want to say something about a matter that is not in the Commonweath Budget. I point out to a number of the members of the Opposition who have not been long in this Parliament that it is a custom in this House to permit an honourable member in his speech on the Budget to refer not only to matters that are part of the Budget but also to matters which arc not part of the Budget, the inference being that some of these matters, significant as they are, should have been dealt with in the Budget. I turn to a matter which I raised by way of question to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  I refer to the television industry. I am anxious to put on record my own anxiety about the policies which ought to be followed to develop Australian capacity to promote a television industry. I refer in particular to the people, the goods, the productions and so forth which make up our television industry. Firstly, I am advised that because of the lack of work and the lack of incentive in Australia 217 trained directors, producers and technicians have applied for positions in the South African Broadcasting Corporation which intends to commence television at the end of next year. Secondly, all but one of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's directors and producers who commenced with the ABC when it started television are now working in Canada and the United Kingdom. Thirdly, many television technicians have been made redundant from television channels here in Australia largely as  a  result of the enormous expenditure overseas. I understand that 28 technicians have been made redundant at television station BTQ Channel 7 in Brisbane. As this is quite a small station one can imagine the proportion of technicians affected in Melbourne. 
Since 1963$A77.8m has been spent on overseas programmes. In 1963-64 the figure was$13.4m; in 1964-65 it was $16.1m; in 1965-66,$15.9m; in 1966-67, $12.5m; in 1967-68, $12.9m; and in 1968-69, $7m. However, enormous as this is, it is nothing compared to the additional spending since 1969. It is estimated that one of the major networks in Sydney will be spending $A8m in 1970 on feature movies and $A5m on television series, mainly on programmes from the United States, I mention these facts because I shall be seeking over the next 3 or 4 weeks opportunities to put before this House the facts which will show that there is a need for careful consideration of the future of the Australian television industry, and above all things, the future of Australians within that industry. 
In Europe and in the United Kingdom any American film company that makes or sells films in that country can take only a small percentage of money out of the country. The rest remains in that country as frozen assets and can be used by the company to make more films. This then generates a continuous industry. I am told that in Australia, however, it is a different scene. Here, for example, the American Broadcasting Corporation can sell a network $lm worth of films and 85% of this outlay is returned to America immediately and the remaining 15% is taxed but at approximately only 13c in the $1 which means that out of$1m only about $50,000 stays in Australia. Over the years Australia has become what one might call a dumping ground for overseas artists. As these artists have come to Australia with overseas names they have tended to affect greatly the opportunities of people in Australia who are seeking to develop their own capacity. The television industry is something which I consider to be germane to the Budget and to the future development of our country. I hope that the Government, the Commonwealth Treasurer and the Postmaster-General will give this matter urgent and considerable attention. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the House for the indulgence shown to me. 
The new Publications Committee will be involved in a great deal more work than was the old Printing Committee. In my opinion the Publications Committee will become far more significant than the Printing Committee ever was. There will be a great deal of work for the Publications Committee of this House and the Publications Committee of the other place sitting together. It is obvious to me that one cannot properly discharge his responsibilities on the Public Accounts Committee while undertaking the duties of  Chairman  of the Publications Committee. This is why I suggested to the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  that I be discharged from the Publications Committee and that the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who 4 years ago, in conjunction with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnston),  had a great deal to do with the select committee which inquired into government publications, be appointed in my stead. I assure the House that no pressure has been brought to bear on me to withdraw from the Committee. This is a voluntary act on my part. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. Th Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. I refer to the crisis in the Middle East. Has the Minister heard of the comments made by the United States Secretary of State,  Mr Rogers,  about the movement of USSR surface to air missile sites into the Suez Canal zone? Has he any precise and confirmed information about these missile installations, installed in defiance of the ceasefire arrangements? Does this information confirm the flexibility of Communist integrity? 
 I feel, that the last few speeches in this debate have been a little frivolous. I think it would be in the interests of the Committee if I were to say to my old friend, the ; . honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who spoke quite seriously and with a quite intense approach to this subject, : that the 3 references he made were most unfortunate,1 particularly in the way in which he made them. I believe that the Committee should take notice of the fact that his criticism of a senator who is a member of his Party is significant to the Government and to the people of Australia, largely because of the fact that the criticism by the senator related to a New Zealand artillery unit. The honourable member for Grayndler was a member of this House when the late Right Honourable John Curtin was Prime Minister of Australia. Had that statement been made at that time, it is my humble opinion that the then Prime Minister would have had an apology in writing to General Freyberg from that senator. 
I saw an honourable gentleman opposite rise to speak during an adjournment debate here, and make an apology to the former member for Hume for some incredible comments, recorded in Hansard, related to the Victoria Cross. Although the honourable member for Grayndler used those words in excitement, they are reprehensible in the context in which they were used. He said 'when the "Melbourne" sank the "Evans" '.  His  comments were most unfortunate. They carried with them an implication of responsibility that was reprehensible in the extreme. In my judgment it was quite unfortunate that they should be uttered in that matter. 
The honourable member also referred to Admiral Crabb. I was present when the interview to which the honourable member referred took place. I know full well that the Admiral was misrepresented by the pressmen who were present. The truth of the matter is that after a day at sea, members of this Parliament and of the Press took part in an interview with the fleet commander. He was  asked about the guided missile destroyers and a reference was made to a viable force. It is quite clear to most intelligent people that in most circumstances . 6 warships are likely to be a more viable force than 3 warships, and this was the comment that the Admiral was making. It was sensationalised by the Press into a very unfortunate set of circumstances. I thought therefore that my friend from Grayndler, would have been fairer to this House had he been more consistent with the facts. 
The recent improvements in pay, allowances and conditions of service within the 
Australian armed forces are a clear indication of the objectives of  the  Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for the Navy,  (Mr Killen),  the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  The new inquiry should be a thorough reappraisal of the relevant circumstances in a total sense and should lead to a modern concept of the armed forces establishing a public image of profound significance to the future of Australia. The prosperity and wealth within the Australian economy have  had  an effect in 1970 upon  the  Australian armed forces, an effect never before seen in our national history. This  is  because we are. more prosperous and wealthy as a nation than ever before in our national history. This means that today, on a scale never known before, our highly trained technical servicemen and administrators at all levels and ranks are more likely to be attracted out of the armed forces into our rapidly expanding national economy. 
Against that background I wish to look at the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam when he talked about his support for the equality of service life set against a background of general civilian standards. He said that this was supremely important. He made his statements as a gesture of condescention to the House and to the armed forces and indicated that as far as the Opposition was concerned this was a vital part of their policy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - The arrangement does not apply on Monday nights; it applies on the other sitting nights. There is no substance in the honourable member's point of order. 
The Leader of the Opposition said this: 
Service life must be equal in every sense to the general standards in civilian occupations. 
I wish to tell honourable members that in my judgment he is wrong. It must be superior and more attractive economically to enable the armed forces to have the very first choice of the best of Australians. The cost of the investment in defence equipment for all Australians is higher than ever before in our history.. We must seek to convince those people responsible for government, in this Parliament and outside it, that Australia's very survival as a nation will be substantially affected by the international reputation of Australia's armed forces. The very powerful senior officers in the great public service departments must be convinced in their own interests that dissatisfaction and discontent in the Australian armed forces reflects in truth upon them because they are the advisers of the parliamentarians who constitute the Cabinet. What is the environment in this world of 1970 which leads me to state that outarmed forces must be the very best of our people? 
There are four factors that I would like to mention. Firstly, the world has become a much smaller place because we now measure distances not in terms of statute or nautical miles but in time. This concept is of profound significance, for those people responsible for Australia's defence policy and future survival. Secondly, the population explosion is also of enormous significance to Australia because the present world population of 3,200 million people will double to 6,400 million by 2000 AD. The most significant truth, as demonstrated this evening by my colleague the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  of the international situation in 1970, is the generally accepted validity of the international cognizance of Communist aims and objectives of world domination. It is true that speeches and documents presented by Communist leaders for SO years have announced that the destruction of all forms of government other than Communism is their ultimate objective. 
How then is 1970 different from previous years and how does 1970 demonstrate this Communist growth of international influence and power more clearly than in any previous year in the 20th century? The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics now is the most significant power in the Mediterranean and has control of the Suez Canal. The USSR has a navy of 551 effective warships around a core of 350 submarines. The armies of die Warsaw Pact countries are the most powerful in Europe in 1970. The forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation were the most powerful in 1960. The diplomacy of the USSR has been responsible for remarkable successes in South America, Africa and Asia since 1967. 
All of these factors are reasons why we must get the very best of our people into our armed forces. We will get them and keep them there only if the standards of Service conditions and allowances are superior generally to the standards that exist outside the armed forces. It is my firm belief that history will prove in this place that there will be an awareness over these next 2 or 3 years and I believe that ultimately it will be reflected in the beads of perspiration that will characterise the faces of our gallant colleagues who sit on the Opposition side of the House. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That progress be reported. 
With due deference to my friends and colleagues on both sides of the chamber and to the  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, I feel that at some stage of this fascinating debate some comments must be made on behalf of the professionals. With great respect to the integrity and political consciousness of my friends and colleagues, there are some comments to be made about the practicalities and realities of life. I can well understand why honourable members should find it encumbent upon them to rise to speak on behalf of what my honourable and gallant friend from Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  described as the common man. He talked in terms of the intrusion of modern technological developments upon the common man. He talked in terms of government indecision in planning in relation to the avoidance of this intrusion. He mentioned the burden of the noise problem with which we are all concerned. But the House must have on record comments which relate to the realities. 
We are in a growing and advancing economy. It is not easy to plan ahead, in terms of time. It is not easy to be able to say that We will select certain areas and keep them, with the approval of State government and of local government authorities, as international airports, aware of the fact that if the urban development over the next 20 to 40 years becomes so great we will have to restrict such development and keep it away from these particular zones. It cannot be done. Honourable members rise in their places to speak on this subject and I say with all due deference, complete sympathy and absolute understanding of the problems that face my friends and colleagues on this side as well as the honourable members for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and St George  (Mr Morrison),  having been a member for St George in this House, that I am very conscious of the political pressures. But Sydney Airport has been established for a long time and many hundreds of millions of dollars are invested in Sydney Airport. I suggest, with great respect, that it is utmost nonsence  for any honourable member to talk in terms of an absolute change - of a moving away from Sydney Airport. I realise that my friend, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has his social problems resulting from these facts, but the truth is that if the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  were Prime Minister of Australia and members opposite sat on this side of the Parliament there would not be one single utterance within their ranks about a movement. 
Let us be practical. The honourable member knows very well that nothing would be done by a Labor government to move the greatest international airport in Australia. 
If a Labor government recommended such a proposal I am sure that the leading members of Qantas Airways would find it difficult to remain in that organisation. They would all be going to Fiji for a holiday, because that government would be ruining the organisation. There is* no likelihood of this happening and somebody has to say it here and now. It may be that in some, of the subdivisions of St George which are close to the boundaries of the airport there are people who are highly sensitive, but there are other subdivisions in the electorate and one must be consistent with reality in political considerations. 1 can understand, in relation to the Avalon area, the comments that have been made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the leader for the Labor Party in this debate, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr  Charles Jones). This is an area close to the great city of Melbourne. It is the best flying training area close to that great metropolis. Whilst the international and local airlines have been looking for training areas which are fairly close to the areas in which their employees have to live it has become apparent to them, over a long period of time, that this is the ideal area. It is utterly wrong to say that Avalon is the worst possible place because the fact of the matter is that from the flying man's point of view it is the best place. Somehow we have to work out a reasonably comprehensible pattern of understanding between those who will suffer from noise and those who want to reside close to airports. I am not at all satisfied as to the validity of the argument that noise will remain an everlasting problem. I have every reason to believe that the technical efforts that are being made to solve the problem will, over the next decade, become reasonably successful, and more successful as time passes. We will find many hundreds of people who want to reside close to airports. There are people who work at great international airports who want their homes in and about an area in which there is a noise problem. It is in their commercial economic interest to be there. Is the Department of Civil Aviation to be criticised for not being  able  to look into a crystal ball? Someone said that the airport could be moved out to Bourke or Dubbo. In 100 years time it may  be that the same type of problem that is existent now at Avalon, and which is manifest in Sydney, will also exist in New South Wales at Dubbo and people will be standing in this House repeating the same arguments as we have heard today. 
We must face the fact that we cannot have advancement and the  improvement of  the technical services that are vital in a growing economy like Australia's economy in 1970 without some burden resting upon the shoulders of the average man. After ali, he carries the burden of defending the country; he carries the burden of being in the country, he carries the burden, in effect, of developing a heritage for the future of his own children. In these circumstances it is my judgment that reality and practicality will prove that, apart from all the emotional political arguments, be must face up to the situation. I believe that he will face up to it and will either deal with it personally or will suffer from the advances of technology and derive the benefits from the advances of technology. lt is, I think, an eternal verity that the average man in Australia wants to see his country advance. He does not want to see it become stagnant. He does, not want to see it remain in a backward condition. Let me illustrate this to the honourable gentleman and to you,  Mr Speaker,  by saying that when the emerging nations that are arising throughout the world, those in the great continents of Asia and Africa, are developing, the very first thing they establish is an international airline. They get an aeroplane and put their name on it and fly it all around the world. Do they have arguments about noise? Do they have arguments about problems in relation to the suffering that follows the advancement of technology? Certainly they do. But they put up with it because the advancement implicit in the shining representation of technology that is to be seen in a mckern aeroplane is important to them in their governments, in their homes and in their countries. That is why at their first opportunity they establish an international airline. T am confident the Minister will confirm what I have said. 

 Mr TURNER (Bradfield)- Yes. I claim the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  has misrepresented me. In the course of his speech he referred to me, the honourable member for Bradfield, and said he understood the political pressures upon his friends and colleagues, implying that the reason why I rose and said what I have said in this debate was that I wished to win support among ray constituents. Admittedly, this is a thing that all members like to do. However, as I will not be a candidate at the next election for the seat of Bradfield I wish to refute any suggestion that 1 am concerned with winning votes from people whose suffrages ! shall not be seeking. The second point I wish to make is that the honourable member impugned roy loyalty. He said that if the boot had been on the other foot and if honourable members opposite had been on this side of the House when this report had been produced by the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise no honourable member opposite would have protested against it and, therefore, I was disloyal. This was the plain implication. Let me say this: Loyalty must be to somebody or to something; it must be to one's party or one's constituents, to an institution or to one's country. I have sometimes found loyalty to party a little narrow. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware of a report that Sydney's 3 universities have refused admission to more than 5,000 qualified applicants? Will the Government endeavour to see that all qualified students who wish to undertake university studies are enabled to do so? 
Having regard to the Prime Minister's personal concern and interest in the settlement of the Qantas Airways air crew industrial dispute, is it possible for the  right  honourable gentleman to advise the House of the present position in this dispute and the results of his negotiations and mediations? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of North Sydney respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demon strates an increasing tolerance of and re-  spect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned- 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the fact of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to participate in the debate on the matter of public importance which has been submitted to the Parliament by my honourable and gallant friend, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I point out to the House that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  in speaking first for the Government, mentioned the 3 aspects of the motion which are, firstly, the continuing waste of public money; secondly, the frustration of skilled personnel in the Royal Australian Air Force; and, thirdly, the disruption of the defence programme. (Quorum formed) I thank the honourable, gallant and gracious member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  for his effort to provide an audience in this House. I was making the point that the 3 factors put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had not been justified by the arguments that he submitted to the House. The point he established was that if the Fill contract were cancelled at this time there would be an enormous cost in terms of public money to the people of Australia. I felt that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in making references to the programme for the delivery time for the F111C, failed to indicate to the House that the testing programme that has been going on over the last 12 months has been devoted to the F111A aircraft which are in the inventory of the United States Air Force. 
I point out to the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that at this time squadrons are entering into the United Kingdom, based at Upper Heyford, which are squadrons of FI IIA aircraft acceptable to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation command. I feel that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seriously believed that the commanders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation air forces were likely to approve of operational aircraft that were not fit in every sense, he would be putting before the Parliament an absolutely absurd contention. He must admit that there is an established fact, of which the House can take notice, that these aircraft at the present time are operating from Upper Heyford, and the wings of aircraft will be within the next 12 months brought to full operational establishment and they will be then functioning from the United Kingdom, as I have said, under the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation command. 
The reference that was made by the honourable member for Forrest to other world governments withdrawing from contractual arrangements again was misleading. I point out to the House, as I have done on many occasions previously, that the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth of Australia and New Zealand were the only countries that were considered by the United States Government to be possible purchasing powers for the Fill aircraft. Whilst it is true that the naval aircraft was not acceptable to the United States Navy, it creates an entirely false impression for the honourable gentleman to imply that there were other world governments to whom the aircraft had been offered but who had withdrawn from any contractual arrangements. This is simply not the case. 
As I have said here repeatedly, this aircraft is 1963 technology and the F4E Phantoms are 1953 technology. The problems that have been traversed in this Parliament could be repeated again and again, the Minister himself said that it is the metallurgy problem that is causing the greatest difficulty. As the testing programme is brought to completion, our 24 F111C aircraft eventually will go through the testing programme and be available for Australia. If there is any frustration on the part of skilled personnel in the Royal Australian Air Force I would be very surprised. I would think it not unreasonable to say that there would be some disappointment, because I hold the view that there are quite a lot of members of the Royal Australian Air Force who would be happy indeed to see the Government make a decision to accept the aircraft immediately. 
As at 7th December 1970, 179 of the aircraft had been through the retesting programme and the re-equipment programme with the heavy wing box and had been returned to the United States Air Force inventory. At that time 65,000 hours had been flown, and only recently we had the eighteenth aircraft loss. As I have said repeatedly in this House, when an aircraft is lost it does seem to be a remarkable and almost a political innovation that the assumption is made immediately that this is the fault of the aircraft itself. Let me assure the House - after all I am living testimony to this fact - that it is probably true that 96 per cent of all aircraft accidents are the responsibility of the human beings responsible for the controls of the aeroplane. We do not know even in this latest case whether the aircraft itself was responsible for the accident. A comparison with the other F100 series aircraft like the F104G Starfighter, for example of which more than 100 have been lost by the West German Air Force, would be a not unreasonable safety comparison for me to make. I hold the view that, with the order of 70,000 hours having been flown by the aircraft and with 18 aircraft losses, we have every reason to expect that within the next few years our aircraft will go through this testing programme and that the F111C will be available within the Royal Australian Air Force and happily accepted by those people who are going to fly it. 
1 rise to support the report of the Standing Orders Committee. I share with the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  the view that it would be in the interests of the House if we were to return to the previous programme pattern of sitting for 3 days for 3 weeks and then having one week to spend in the constituency. 1 believe that the reference by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  to the hours spent in the Parliament over a long period of time was creating in the minds of those listening to him a picture that a limited amount of work was being carried out in Canberra. My interjection when the honourable member was speaking was not related to the number of sitting days. I was thinking of the actual working day. In Canberra, if the Parliament sits from 9 a.m. and commonly until midnight on 3 days a week, members have a 45-hour working week. Honourable gentleman such as the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and many others, who have to travel over great distances in order to be here immediately prior to the beginning of this 44-hour to 45-hour working week on a 3-day programme are subjected to a degree of physical strain which is out of all proportion to the degree of strain that is suffered by those of us who represent the metropolitan electorates, for example, of Sydney or of Melbourne. It seems that the 4-day week programme adds greatly to that strain. I feel quite sure that, if the Parliament decides to return to the programme of 3 working weeks here followed by one week in the constituencies, it will be acting in the interests of those members. 
As the members of the Standing Orders Committee who have spoken have said, the truth is that the experiment which has been tried has not worked. It has not worked because many honourable members have discovered that when they add their travelling time to the commitments which they face as ombudsmen or as professional social workers in their electorates, their ability to attend to their commitments is gravely affected by the length of time that they must be absent from the offices which are provided for them in their electorate. As the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said, it is reasonable for members of this House to commend to the Parliament and to the Executive consideration of their work within their electorates. This work is particularly important. It is not unfair to point out that probably in at least onethird of the 125 electoral divisions in the Parliament, the elected representative is working at a very intense level because his majority is a small one, whereas in probably two-thirds of the seats the pressure upon the member representing the electorate is not so great. Here again is a reflection of the different types of work that a member is called upon to carry out in relation to the variety of electoral responsibilities imposed by different seats within this House. 
It seems to me that when we refer to the time factor we are thinking in terms of 100 working days in one year, with each working day averaging 14 hours to 15 hours. This presents a far more realistic picture to the Parliament and to the general public. The hours must be considered. That was the point that I particularly wished to bring to the attention of my friend, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It does seem to me that one hope which may be of interest to the country arises from this general debate. That is that so many of the sagacious representatives who sit on the other side of the House of Representatives are showing beyond all reasonable doubt that a 40-hour working week is something which is not to be considered to be the lot of a member of the House of Representatives. With their extraordinary conflict of interest in policy and the absurd talk that one hears about a 35-hour working week, one would be very interested to hear how they would relate this industrial concept to the work of a member of the House of Representatives. I would recommend to them' that they take to the whole country the simple message that a good day's work with a good day's return, with all sorts of emoluments, is a fair and proper thing within this community. I hope that the House will decide to return to the previous pattern of 3 working day for 3 weeks followed by 1 week in the constituencies. I therefore support the report of the Standing Orders Committee and am prepared to oppose the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Wills. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. What special assistance is to be provided for the Australian Opera Company so as to enable it to strengthen its opera company and orchestras to a level which would enable it in 1973 to present at the opening of the Sydney Opera House performances of truly international quality? 
I rise to support the motion moved by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 and to oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who on Tuesday, 24th August, moved his amendment and sought the support of the House of Representatives for his amendment in a long speech attacking the Budget in extravagant terms designed to undermine the confidence of the people of Australia in their future development and national prosperity. In his opening remarks the Leader of the Opposition has accused the  President  of the United States of America of precipitating a great international currency crisis. Such extravagant language is grossly unfair and misleading, particularly when the Leader of the Opposition is well aware of the widely circulated reasons for the actions of  President  Nixon. He knows that the strength and the health of the United States economy is of vital importance to the welfare of the free world and he knows that the future of Australia is to a very significant degree dependent upon the proper discharge of those responsibilities which have been accepted by the United States Government during the last 30 years. 
The Leader of the Opposition knows that the  President  is deeply concerned about the health of the United States economy, in particular with the inflation and the degree of unemployment that is evident today in the United States of America. However, seeking always to gratify those elements within the Australian Labor Party which are notorious for their anti-Americanism, which are known to the Australian people as the left wing of the Australian Labor Party, he is ready to brand the  President  as a sinister influence engaged by inference in some monstrous capitalistic plot to create a great international currency crisis'. I felt, in view of the significance of these remarks and in case they were treated by international Press representatives as being important and truly reflective of the judgment of an alternative government in this country, that I should make some reference to the speech that the  President  of the United States made. I have 3 quotations which I believe are reasonable in setting out the position that  President  Nixon appreciated for bis country. Briefly put he said this: 
We must create more and better jobs. We must stop the rise in the cost of living. We must protect the dollar from the attacks of international money speculators. 
I feel that the Leader of the Opposition in this House ought to be at least sympathetic to the last of those references by the  President.  Furthermore the  President  of the United States on 15th August said this: 
To our friends abroad, including the many responsible members of international banking community who are dedicated to stability in the flow of trade, I give this assurance: The United States has always been, and will continue to be, a forward-looking and trustworthy trading partner. In full co-operation with the Monetary Fund 6nd those who trade with us, we  will  press for the  Necessary  reforms to set up an urgently needed  new  International Monetary System. Stability and equal treatment ls in everybody's best Interest, f am determined that the American dollar must never again be a hostage In the hands of the International speculators. 
One other quote from that speech is important because I believe that it represents a fair and proper description of what the United States has done in the interests of the free countries of the world over the last 30 years. The  President  said this: 
At the end of World War II, the economies of the major industrial nations of Europe and Asia were shattered. To help them get on their feet and to protect their freedom, the United States has provided 143 billion dollars In foreign aid. That was the right thing for us to do. Today, largely with our help, they have regained their vitality and have become strong competitors. Now that other nations are economically strong the time has come for them to bear their fair share of the burden of defending freedom around the world. The time has come for exchange rates to be set straight and for the major nations to compete as equals. There is no longer any need for the United States to compete with one hand tied behind her back. 
The proper duty of all members of this House is to encourage Australian people to know the facts and to understand that confidence is vital in commerce and industry if national development is to be sustained and this country is to cope with the economic problems emerging in Australia. It is a long time since the Opposition members were able to use the term 'unemployment' as a political truncheon to belabour the Government, but 2 weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition was attacking the confidence of Australians by threatening the community with 100,000 unemployed. This figure represents about 2 per cent of a labour force of 5 million people.  His  shameful failure to put such figures into a proper context serves to demonstrate the measure of his failure to compare economic conditions in Australia with those in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and the continent of Europe. A close examination of this extravagant and exaggerated speech fails to reveal policies to be analysed and assessed by the Australian people who may be seeking to know what the Leader of the Opposition really would be doing if he were the Prime Minister of Australia, 
I turn now to a significant matter that has been stressed in this debate on all sides. I make reference to the rural economy within this country. The Leader of the Opposition has said: 
We find in our economy a generally depressed rural community. 
But a policy to cope with such a position as he defined it was not forthcoming. Every word of his speech was designed to attack the confidence of the community and nothing constructive was said to encourage the Australian people in any responsible way. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech on 17th August told us that the Government was aware that farm income in 1970- 71 was estimated at about S810m and that this figure was about S265m less than in 1969-70. The constructive policies designed to help the rural community are clear in the Budget. These are, firstly, finance for schemes of debt reconstruction and farm build up. An amount of $4m was paid to New South Wales last year for this purpose and a further S40m is to be provided this year for payments to the States. Secondly, provision is also made for payment to the States of $ 11.5m under the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. Payments last year were S3.1m. Thirdly, advances for capital purposes include $1Om for the Commonwealth Development Bank to help finance an extension of the Bank's operations to include loans to farmers to build up the size and operational efficiency of their farms. 
Fourthly, for those farmers not in a position to achieve economic viability a retraining scheme is to be introduced, and the rural reconstruction scheme also provides for rehabilitation assistance necessary to alleviate personal hardship for those farmers obliged to leave rural industry. Fifthly, the wool industry is supported by the operation of the Australian Wool Commission. Last year the Commonwealth made available to the Commission $12m for working capital to finance purchases of wool, and an arrangement was negotiated with the trading banks to provide up to $34m to the Commission for the same purpose. This latter amount is not yet fully drawn. As the Treasurer has told us, advances for capital purposes include a further SI Om to be advanced to the Commission as working capital should this be needed. This year the wool producers will be further supported by a scheme of deficiency payments so as to ensure that on average growers receive for shorn wool, other than specified inferior types accounting for about 10 per cent of shorn wool, a return corresponding to a price for the whole clip of 36c per lb greasy. In this Budget provision is made for expenditure of $60m under the deficiency payments scheme 
This year S38m is the expected expenditure on the phosphate fertilisers bounty, and the bounty is to bc extended to 31st December 1974. Butter and cheese bounties this year will amount to almost $40m. A 5-year stabilisation plan for the apple and pear industry, which should be of interest to the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who spoke earlier, will be introduced at an estimated cost in 1971-72 of 33m. Thus payments to rural industries are expected to total $275m, an increase of S65m on last year. These policies arc a clear answer to the extravagant criticism of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  - the House, I am sure, will remember his speech for a considerable period although he was not assisted by an unfortunate incident in the gallery - and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  were all involved in attacks on personalities within the Government rather than concentrating upon those policies which would characterise a government if it were ever formed by the Australian Labor Party.  1  point out that my experience in this House has Icd me to a suspicion that in Opposition the Australian Labor Party has a no hold barred political outlook. No misrepresentation can be too big for it, no standard of political attack is unacceptable if, in its view, votes can be won. This is characterised, in my belief, by the fact, as I mentioned before, that no details of policy are forthcoming from the Australian Labor Party. Until such time as the people of Australia, facing serious economic circumstances, are able to compare policies put forward by the Leader of the Opposition with the policies introduced by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer it will not be possible for people to make any rational comparison. 1 wished to refer to a number of other matters in relation to this Budget Speech but, as time is very short, I will content myself with a reference to those defence matters which I feel have been defined by the Prime Minister in this Budget as 'sustaining our conviction that the security of 
Australia will be well-cared for in the future'. 1 wondered whether the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in particular, as he is the shadow Minister for Defence, would have been prepared to make criticisms about the distribution of funds for the defence services. I feel that over the next decade Australia will face circumstances that may worsen rather more rapidly than we would have previously thought when considering the appreciations that have been put by the Government to the House over the last few years. I have come to the view that it is impossible to look ahead by means of a crystal ball and to be sure that the estimate over a period of 10 years is a reliable one. I therefore hold the view that the Government and the Parliament ought to be prepared to make at the earliest opportunity arrangements for a marked increase in the defence capacity of Australia. It is my view that the international situation may deteriorate rapidly - I have said so before in this House - and I believe that we ought perhaps to be better prepared in financial terms to meet such a rapid deterioration. 1 conclude my remarks by suggesting to the House that there are reasons why the ping pong diplomacy which has characterised the policies of the Peking Government in recent months and the softening approach of the Peking Government towards the Western powers should have taken place at all. I draw to the attention of the House those complexes which are in China at a place called Lop Nor. They are nuclear complexes in which the Government of Peking is preparing a nuclear capacity. I would imagine that if I were in government in Peking and If I came to the conclusion that there was likely to be any nuclear threat to my country one of the first moves I would make would be to seek a detente and some form of relaxation with those people who had been my enemies during recent years. This is a suggestion which I think ought to be of interest to people in our defence Services and in the Department of Defence. I would be interested to know whether there was any information which would encourage people to believe that this was the real reasoning behind ping pong diplomacy and behind what has been happening in recent times. 
Has the Minister for Defence been advised of details of a recent accident in the United States of America involving an Fill aircraft, whilst that aircraft was flying low at high speed on tactical reconnaissance training? Further, does the Minister have any information for the House about the operational wing of Fill aircraft based at Upper Heyford in England? 
1 compliment the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on the statement that he delivered to the House of Representatives this evening. I should like to pay a tribute to the interest in civil aviation which has been taken by my colleagues in the House. I am well aware that there is an emotional content, particularly for the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  in this matter.  His  electorate rs very close to the Sydney Airport and, as I know from personal experience, having been privileged to represent the electorate of St George in the 19th, 20th and 22nd Parliaments of the Commonwealth, that a growing concern was being reflected in the considerations, particularly of the local government authorities in that electorate, of the effect of noise from the Sydney Airport. The problems about which the honourable member has spoken are human problems; their solution is vital to the good of New South Wales, to the local government authorities and to thousands of people living in the great metropolis of Sydney. One can have only sympathy for the intense arguments, the anxiety and the emotional approach that the honourable member, who was formerly  His Excellency  in a diplomatic sense, has put forward. 
I feel that in discussing this matter, it is wise to look towards the future. I have made one or two notes that I feel may be of significance in the consideration of what the future holds for the city of Sydney - the great metropolis. Honourable members are probably well aware, as most of them receive reports from the State Planning Authority in New South Wales, that it is envisaged that by the year 2000 there will be approximately 5 million people resident within the city of Sydney and its close environs. There is not much doubt that the development of Sydney will spread both north and south, to Newcastle and to Wollongong and that, therefore, there will be a great concentration of people in that area. However, transport costs are vital in considering the significance of the development of civil aviation in Australia and, at this stage. I think lt is wise to refer to the present economic position and to problems faced by the international airlines operating into the great complex of the Sydney Airport. As honourable members have mentioned, the Sydney Airport already represents an investment of $167m. 
The problem facing international air transport is that rising costs for research and development of aircraft and for engines has led to an international situation in which companies purchasing modern aircraft have been forced into great borrowings which they have to service and which are provided by international banking consortia. These companies have been unable to maintain their profits over recent years and there now exists a situation in which an enormous number of companies, international companies in particular, are suffering great financial strain. They are losing money and they are likely to suffer economic collapse unless steps are taken to stabilise the international industry. The only thing that can be done, of course, is to rationalise the industry and to use the International Civil Aviation Organisation in such a way as to protect from unfair competition those people who have vast investments in the airlines. Governments throughout the world are investing enormous sums of money in the infrastructure that is necessary to support the international civil airline industry and a manifestation of many of these problems can be seen in Australia. 
As has been stated, it will cost about $200m or $300m to develop the new Sydney airport. Honourable members can rest assured that the more delay that takes place, the greater is the likelihood of the ultimate cost being higher because, as time passes, so inevitably costs will tend to rise - labour costs, land costs, the pressure of people and so forth. This is illustrated in many of the decisions that have been made by Labor Party governments in New South Wales. It is to be seen in places like Kurnell. Perhaps the classic illustration is the famous Opera House which a former Premier thought would cost 5m and which will cost something of the order of $100m. Inevitably, this must be the story of the future. As has been said by the Minister, there is no likelihood that any government will move away from Sydney airport No. I being located where it is today. 
Historically, the original decisions were made in 1929 by  Mr Scullin  and again by the late  Mr Chifley,;  as Prime Minister, and his colleagues in the 1947 period when it was known full well that there would be jet aircraft. Jets were flying at that time - aircraft such as the Meteor and the Vampire. It was obvious to all associated with the Government of the day - the adviser? in the Department of Civil Aviation and people in the industry itself - that jet aircraft would be using Sydney Airport, Melbourne Airport and other Australian airports. This problem will continue into the future but there is always the possibility of a technical breakthrough which will lead to a commercial development of the short take off and landing and the vertical take off and landing aircraft. This could lead to a situation in which there would be less demand for the existing concept of the international airport, with vast areas of land, of concrete runways and so forth. 
When we look at the rate of technological development in aviation over the last 15 years or 20 years, we must recognise that this field of activity is advancing at an ever increasing rate and that every likelihood exists that by 1980 to 1985 the whole present picture will have altered considerably. One would hope that, if this is the case, the Government - sapient as it is. economic as it is and, as my colleague from Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  reminds me, always aware of the fact that the funds of taxpayers must be husbanded with great care - would best be in the position where it had not committed itself to the expenditure unnecessarily of vast sums of money. One must proceed with caution in all of these matters and. with good sense of pro priety, be prepared to take advantage of the technological advances that may be forthcoming. 
Personally, 1 would find some regret if the present location of the Royal Australian Air Force station at Richmond were to be interfered with. Having been the  President  of the Officers Mess at that Royal Australian Air Force station in 1948, I have a personal feeling for that area of land. I say this to those who think in terms of the development of civil airports: I have never known of any civil airline captains who were altogether happy about large blue hills pretty close to airports. I can see the faces in this place of some who understand exactly what I mean. Speaking from personal experience, I can assure the House that hills, if they are close to aerodromes, can be difficult. 
In the light of these factors, I have no doubt that the proposed committee will proceed as it must with its inquiries. The most vital thing from the point of view of the . House of Representatives is that the Government of New South Wales will have every opportunity to allow the local government authorities which function under the Minister for Local Government to put a point of view. That point of view probably will be a difficult one for governments to handle. I have no doubt myself, however, that although people object to the noise that comes from airports these local government authorities - I would say to the honourable member for St George - are not above taking advantage of certain commercial circumstances that may emerge from time to time. I think that the honourable member may be well advised to talk to the members of the municipal councils at Hurstville and Rockdale and to examine their future projects, particularly those over the next 3 years or 4 years, to see whether he can make some interesting discovery which may lead him to believe that they may have a certain measure of tongue in cheek when they are critical of the Department of Civil Aviation and the Federal Government in this matter. 
I hold the view that people close to airports will always seek to take advantage of cheap land. This has been seen before. It has been illustrated perfectly in Melbourne where pressure has been put on State 
Government authorities by local government authorities and areas of land that were to be kept free around Tullamarine airport now have been developed by developers and purchased for houses. They are seeking to take advantage of the position there. There will always be people who will wish to live close to airports. They will want homes and they will put up with all the noise that is to be suffered. If some commercial advantage can be gained, honourable members can rest assured that there will be some people - a limited number by all means - who will take advantage of those circumstances. 
Therefore, when the Minister made reference to an outside concept, the statement that so many Fokker Friendship aircraft would be needed to service international airports some distance from a capital city led me to wonder whether it was a reasonable contention that aircraft of this type should be considered in relation to a project that might be looked at having regard to the requirements for 1980-1985, 
I believe that the time will come when the establishment of an enormous aircraft complex at places like Dubbo and Narromine may be a great deal more feasible than it is in 1971. It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that by 1985 this will be a great deal more feasible. 1 also think that aircraft of the appropriate type which will bring people into the great capital cities from areas such as those in the same way as a taxi takes a person home after he alights from a train at Central Station can be developed. It all depends, as I say, upon the aircraft which are designed for specific functions. The Canadians are going into this field in a big way. There is an aircraft called the De Havilland DHC7, which is the STOL aircraft of the future and which is capable of operating from airstrips of 2,000 feet. Airstrips of that size are quite small. This aircraft can carry 48 passengers and has 4 turbo-prop engines. It is an ideal sort of commuter aircraft that can be used over distances of up to 120 miles. 
I hope that the House will be cognisant of the fact that the proposed committee will go to work when the recommendations are put up. We will need to try to avoid being parry political in this matter. We must try to be sympathetic to those who will suffer because of the decision that will be made. But, in the ultimate, it is the public interest which must be the cardinal and paramount consideration. What is in the best insterests of the people of the great metropolis of Sydney will be in the best interests of the people of Australia. I hold the view that political parties will need to recognise this fact. Frankly, I have never really found an Australian who has toid me that he changed his voting pattern and voted for party A instead of party B because of a certain amount of noise that came from a jet engine or something of that nature. 
As Chairman, I present the 131st and 132nd reports of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
 I ask the Minister for the Navy: Having regard to the fascinating events now taking place in London involving the accredited representatives of a for eign power and what is termed 'industrial espionage', does the Minister assure the House of the security of naval establishments, dockyards and construction centres to design and build Australia's new destroyers for our future defence at sea? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the questions asked of him yesterday by the honourable member for Stirling and the Leader of the Opposition on the subject of a subsidy for aerial transport operations and sea transport to the Northern Territory, I ask: Will the Prime Minister please correct the record by giving the facts to the House for the benefit of all honourable members? 
I rise to speak in this debate in the Committee of the House on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72. I think what I have to say has no relationship to the matters raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who just resumed his seat. I shall proceed to deal with some references that have been made in recent times by some of my colleagues in this place and by some other colleagues in another place. 
During recent times . and particularly during this debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72, there have been many references to the need for further committees within both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Parliament is now faced with a situation in which there has been a proliferation of committees in the Senate: and within the House of Representatives. In recent years there has been established in this House a number of select committees which have dealt with matters of great significance to Australia. Members of this Committee will be familiar with the details of those select committees and their work. However, in February of this year the Commonwealth Government announced to the nation policies designed to counter the economic virus of inflation in the Australian community. 
These policies had a profound effect upon the Commonwealth civil service and practically all of the departments of State within that service. This meant that the development of the departments had to be restricted and the growth of the membership of the civil service strictly limited. As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Representatives and the Senate, no-one is better placed than I am  to  indicate that I am conscious of the effect of these restrictions. I have seen evidence of their effect upon the civil service. We are aware of the shortage of skilled personnel in almost every profession in our community, and we should be able to understand that in this environment now is not the time for the Commonwealth Parliament to be seeking to extend its influence and thus create unnecessary burdens for the departments of Slate. I am sure that this Committee of the House would not quarrel with the definition of the role of parliament which emerged from debates in the House of Commons on 4th November 1970. I quote from those debates: 
Parliamentary control means influence, not direct power; advice, not command; criticism, not obstruction; scrutiny, not initiative, and publicity, not secrecy. 
I have heard those words before and I know that they are very dear to some of the distinguished honourable members on this side of the chamber. The quotation continues: 
The House of Commons Chamber- 
And here I would say that this applies also to the House of Representatives, andI emphasise that point- must remain the centre of Parliament - 
As does the House of Representatives- and the main battleground of political controversy. But the Chamber is inappropriate for a deep investigation of problems andis often inappropriate for close argument. 
My colleagues the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  have indicated that they believe that a new and extra committee should be established to deal with the Estimates and possibly with expenditure. My colleague the honourable member for Isaacs stated: 
Our present control of public expenditure through the Public Accounts Committee is directed almost entirely to the legal aspects of control. 
I wish to refute this and to point out that the Public Accounts Committee Act, in section 8, provides that the Committee should examine, inter alia, the accounts of receipts. This would enable the Committee to conduct examinations in the field of taxation, but not to the extent that they would relate to questions of taxation policy. In order to clarify this point I propose to quote from the Public Accounts Committee Act the duties of the Committee so that once again my colleagues, I trust, will be familiar with those duties. I know that they have read many of the 130-odd reports which the Committee has presented to this House. The duties of the Committee are: 
to examine the accounts of the receipts and expenditure of the Commonwealth and each statement and report transmitted to the Houses of the Parliament by the Auditor-General in pursuance of subsection (1.) of section fifty-three of the Audit Act 1901-1950; 
to report to both Houses of the Parliament, with such comment as it thinks fit, any items or matters in those accounts, statements and reports, or any circumstances connected with them, to which the Committee is of the opinion that the attention of the Parliament should be directed; 
to report to both Houses of the Parliament any alteration which the Committee thinks desirable in the form of the public accounts or in the method of keeping them, or in the mode of receipt, control, issue or payment of public moneys; and 
to inquire into any question in connexion with the public accounts which is referred to it by either House of the Parliament, and to report to that House upon that question. and include such other duties as are assigned to the Committee by Joint Standing Orders approved by both Houses of the Parliament. 
I have referred to the question of taxation which has been mentioned and which is very much related to the Treasury section of the Estimates. Taxation in general is a matter of Government policy and no government could or should expose its tax policies as such to a committee of the Parliament formed on an all-party basis. In the few moments remaining to me I return to the question of expenditure. For many years the Public Accounts Committee has directed its attention to the examination of and the reporting upon the efficiency and economic operation of departments and statutory authorities within the parameters determined by Government policy which is carefully recognised at all times by the Committee as not being a subject upon which the Committee itself should deliberate. The aim of the Committee is to ensure that as far as possible the taxpayer obtains the greatest possible value per $1 spent in the administration of the Commonwealth. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his interjection. This is evidenced by the range and variety of the 132 reports which have been presented to the Parliament by the Committee since 1951. Some of these reports relate to Treasury Minutes which embody the action taken by the Executive to implement the recommendations of the Committee. From its range of inquiries and the subsequent action taken by the Executive the Committee has demonstrated its very great value to the Parliament as a potent force operating on behalf of the Parliament. The Committee makes it clear to the civil service and to all the departments of state that the Parliament is paramount in Australia. But this is not to say - and I do not for one. moment imply - that the horizons and scope of activity of the Public Accounts Committee should not be widened further in the interests of the Parliament, if it is so desired. 
Indeed, such a course appears to have more to offer, in terms of economy and efficiency of the resources of the Parliament itself, than the alternative of creating further committees which, should they be established, undoubtedly would place severe strains on the resources of this House and also of the civil service. In practical human terms there is an actual limit to the capacity of houses of parliament to proliferate committees, duplicating functions and creating more and more demands upon the limited human resources available. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances, whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 29 that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
that the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarium opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Govermment the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibition laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
 Petition received. 
I have listened with a great deal of interest and a certain amount of surprise -to the criticism by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He came into this debate critical of what the Government has done. He made no reference at all to the contributions which his Party has made to the circumstances that have developed in recent years in Papua New Guinea. It is fair and reasonable to say that there are many people in the Territory who have given dedicated service to the Administration and who believe that the honourable gentleman has personally, and with his col leagues, created many of those problems and exacerbated the problems of the people who have been seeking to take the Territory of Papua New Guinea along the progressive road to democracy. In my opinion he has shown a dedication to policies designed to induce approval from critics in the United Nations of Australian policy, a sort of sheer political expediency aimed at what might be described as a form of international exhibitionism, a tragic irresponsibility and a gross neglect of the reality of the problems facing the Territory. 
It is only within the last 3 years that the ultimatum was thrown down to the people in the Territory of self government by 1972 and independence by 1976. With all the blandness possible the Leader of the Opposition said only this evening that even the most critical people would not deny that there must be independence by the end of this decade. I do not accept that there is a burden upon the Commonwealth Government to accede to international pressures however proper they may appear to be. I believe that it is reasonable for the Government of Australia to satisfy itself that the maximum amount of effort and development and the optimum amount of progress have been achieved in the Territory so that at a given moment if the people in the Territory are reasonably ready to accept responsibilities for self government they can at least try their hands in that field to begin with. The expression 'whether you want it or not* that was used by the Leader of the Opposition at Kavieng on New Ireland was, to my mind, most unfortunate and has contributed to and exacerbated the problems of those who are doing the job in the Territory. 
There has been a gradual growth of political awareness resulting from Government policy throughout the years. The focal councils, the House of Assembly and the ministerial members are an essential part of the Administration. There has been a real development of responsibility. The structure of the University of Papua New Guinea, for example, has developed soundly. The University has a spirit. The Commonwealth of Australia has given it great assistance. It has been said, as if it were something to be ashamed of, that the 
Department of External Territories has followed paternalistic policies. I regard this as the most unctuous hypocricy because when World War II finished and the people of Australia, in a national sense, were conscious of the existence of the Territory of Papua New Guinea their attitude towards the Territory was in fact paternalistic. They wished, with all the good feeling and humanity in the world, to develop that Territory. Why on earth anybody should disapprove of such a description is something [ will never understand. 
The encouragement of investment in the Territory by the present Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  has been a remarkable achievement. Over the years Australian banks have been developed in the Territory and have provided large sums. The Minister has assured the Australians in the service of the Administration that their future will be protected. The fearful legacy of irresponsible speed in forcing self government onto people not equipped for responsibility is to be seen in Africa. Heaven only knows, perhaps it may be seen in East Pakistan today. I would remind this House that a Labour government in England might inherit a degree of historical responsibility from posterity in due course. Yet the Australian Labor Party exhibits a slavish regard for those international manipulators who will prosper from anarchy and from revolution. In the immediate post-war period the ALP Government of that time accepted what 1 will describe as paternalistic responsibility. That government would have rejected confusion and anarchy as the Labor Prime Minister in 1949 rejected anarchy in the coal fields of New South Wales with the aid of Australian soldiers in military uniform. Then we had a change of government in 1949 and what I will describe as the Hasluck period in the Territory. There was growth, progress, humane interest and dedication to the creation of a nation. Those of us who took part in that development, if only in the most minor sense in the technical fields of communications, transport and so forth, saw the development taking place. We know full well that the progress that has been made in the Territory - at least I can say this from my own knowledge in the field of aviation - has been remarkable over the last 15 to 20 years. When the Minister took over from the former Minister, who is now  His Excellency  the Governor-General, we had - and I have described this as the Barnes period - a greater acceleration of progress towards democracy and a political tolerance which I regard in a British Parliament as being quite remarkable. I believe that the Minister has withstood all sorts of assaults, in terms of fair play, upon his own dignity in such a manner as to earn the utmost respect of those people who recognise that with dignity and forbearance ail sorts of insults can be tolerated. 
The problems of the people 1 have referred to, exacerbated by our Australian Labor Party visitors from Australia, are seen, for example, in the reference that was made by the Leader of the Opposition to the Mataungans and the other Tolai people who are residents of the Gazelle Peninsula on New Britain. The Mataungans by no means represent the mass of the people living in that area, and that they were encouraged by the ALP visitors cannot be denied, lt is absolutely true that they were encouraged. Of course, it has to be admitted that they were requested to avoid violence, but I cannot help feeling that this House should recognise that there was a certain measure of naivete in such a recommendation in the light of those circumstances. The Leader of the Opposition used terms such as 'Uncle Tom'. I say to him that one cannot use terms like that to people who are struggling for their own progress and development without insulting them, without undermining them and without destroying their integrity amongst their own people. That is an expression that he applied to one of the gentlemen who is now a Ministerial Member of the Government of the Territory. 
In the last few moments that I have available to me I wish to point out that the work of the Development Bank has been remarkable. The Investment Corporation will assist greatly in the future development of the export trade capacity of the Territory, and after all, whatever happens in that Territory it will be Australian support that will be most significant in the movement towards its economic viability. It will be the people of the Territory, with their intelligence, their forbearance and their innate dignity, who will best handle the problems of government. They will not be helped by those people who by misrepresentation and assertions of 'When I am Prime Minister, when 1 am this and when I am that', seek to encourage them to adopt an arrogant attitude towards law and order and proper decisions. What was done by those people who broke the law would not be tolerated by their own government when they were independent and in command of their own destiny, be it in Bougainville, on the Gazelle Peninsula, in Port Moresby or in the highlands of Papua New Guinea. I congratulate the Government and the Minister on excellent work well done. I hope that with forbearance and with good sense those manipulators throughout this world who would destroy that good work will not succeed if the most important thing to defeat them is the moral courage of the people in this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The motion before the House reads: 
That the House has no confidence in the Minister for Defence, because of his damaging and dangerous treatment of the request for assistance in training Cambodian and Laotian troops in Vietnam. 
In relation to the matter of substance, the Government's policy can be expressed quickly and concisely. The Government's policy is to assist Cambodia which, by wide consent, has been the victim of aggression. I have in my hands a statement dated Sunday, 5th July 1970, to the Prime Minister, Government and people of the Kingdom of Laos, which bears the signatures of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  as leader of the Australian Parliamentary Mission to Indo China,  Senator Bishop,  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay),  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and  Senator Young  of South Australia. The document contains these words: 
We have been profoundly moved by the abundant evidence of your courage and determination to pursue a course seeking only the right to live at peace and in neutrality. We deeply deplore the open and evident aggression being committed against you by your more powerful neighbour North Vietnam. 
When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  opened the case for the Opposition he made criticisms of the learned and distinguished Secretary of the 
Department of Defence and of the Minister for Defence, the Honourable David Fairbairn, D.F.C. He said that the processes of the request referred to in the motion had begun from the United States Embassy, proceeded through the Department of Foreign Affairs and thence to the Department of Defence, arriving there on 1st October, and that it was 3 weeks before the Minister for Defence, on 25th October, was in receipt of this important information. Basically the  Deputy  Leader's case was an administrative criticism which has subsequently been admitted by the Minister for Defence, but no point was taken by the  Deputy  Leader - the alternative Minister for Defence in the shadow Cabinet - about the substance of the issue. Subsequent comments that have been made are a testimony to the depth to which the critics of the Government will sink in seeking to render aid and comfort to the aggressive enemy from North Vietnam. 
The Minister for Defence accepted the criticism that such a politically sensitive issue should have been assessed by the Labor Party as of such importance and created an opportunity for members opposite to indulge in irresponsible histrionics, exaggerating trivia and wasting the time of this House. This is, in fact, lamentable. They dealt with matters of fact regarding Cambodia and the war in Indo-China and quoted all of these issues as though they were of no significance at all to the people of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  devoted his time to criticism of the Minister. He sought publicity to give him aid and comfort in helping the aggressors in Hanoi. He made, in particular, references to Prince Norodom Sihanouk, the former ruler of Cambodia, who worked for the Communists in Hanoi, gave them aid and comfort and made it possible for millions of dollars worth of supplies to be taken to the Vietcong through the apparently neutral area of Cambodia, so that ultimately people rose in revolt against his clandestine operations. He worked, as I said, for the Communists in Hanoi, and he subsequently was received and established in Peking as a government in exile after his regime was overthrown by patriots who were anxious to avoid the process of going through the Communist mincing machine. In using that phrase I quote from Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore. 
The speech by the Leader of the Opposition this evening will be transmitted to Peking and Hanoi as a servile tribute ;o oriental Communist might because it has no integrity, is bereft of courage and is a pragmatic masterpiece of duplicity. The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  in reviewing the confidence of the Government in the Minister for Defence, established 2 essential differences between the Opposition and the Government in this place. In the first place, the Government believes that Cambodia is being invaded and should be helped. On the other hand, the Labor Party is anxious to support Hanoi and Peking and therefore to curry favour even if it means sacrificing all the victims of Communist aggression within the whole of Indo-China. In the second place, the Government admits administrative inefficiency in 2 of the great departments of state in this country. The honourable and gallant member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  made a statement which could not be misunderstood and which must have indicated that the Minister for Defence has been carrying out some disciplinary action against those who let him down. 
While that is the situation on our side of the Parliament, the Labor Party is hysterically and irresponsibly seeking political publicity in this matttr - publicity which is banal because of the servility that it pays to Communist might. When the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  rose in the debate with his customary humour he sought to maintain this mundane and irresponsible performance of his colleagues. He said: 'Other nations can sort out their own affairs, as we should. No Australians should be involved in foreign wars.' I recall that the honourable member for Wills, himself a man of some military experience, made the comment that Australia would not send any troops to help other people if Labor was in office. He admits that there was invasion of Cambodia from North Vietnam, but he takes the view that Australians ought not to be concerned. 
Here stands clearly identified one quality that characterises the Australian Labor Party. There is no doubt that when Labor was in government in 1942 and its wartime Prime Minister, John Curtin, knew the terror of comprehension of a threat, made a most hysterical, emotional appeal for foreign troops to come and protect him and the ilk of those who sit on the other side of this House. He made an emotional and hysterical appeal which is on record and which can be read by every Australian schoolboy, schoolgirl and adult, urging over and above the considerations of the war in Europe and the might of Nazi Germany, characterised at that time as the No. 1 threat against the peace of the world, that Australia not be forgotten. Once we are in the position where the Labor Party feels the threat of terror there is no doubt that we have then identifiable clearly the streak that explains their constant predilection for Peking. 
Having said that, I return to my own confidence in the integrity and efficiency of the Minister of State who is under attack. This Minister of State, I have the honour to inform this House, has a record in peace and war that will stand comp"ison with any of the great men who occupied their places in this House. Any man in this place would be proud to call him his personal friend. I have no doubt that, constant as the humour was from my friend from Grayndler, he made a particular point of referring to the fact that the Minister's integrity was not under attack. 
What is under attack? Is it some administrative efficiency? Is it an acceptance that here was an opportunity to take some political advantage because somebody in the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Department of Defence had failed to realise that here was a matter that could be blown up into some great political cause celebre? Was this the situation, or was it simply that the error having been made our friends in the Opposition saw their opportunity once again to strike a blow for those who they know are the enemies of Australia and whom they have been aiding and comforting for so long in the hope that they could secure some degree of political advantage to give them an opportunity to win votes at an election based upon the fact that they believe in their hearts that a significant number of voters are people bereft of courage, bereft of character and possessed only of the desire to avoid any threat to their own safety? If this is the assessment of the bulk of the people who live in this country, may the Lord have mercy upon us, for great shall be the need of those who live in this country in the future. 
As I said earlier in this debate, there was a time when the leaders of the Labor Party - and many of the people who are sitting opposite are aware of this fact - were aware of the terror of government. Governments are in receipt of classified and secret information that Oppositions do not receive. When this information was available to Prime Minister Curtin his reaction was predictable.  His  reaction was one that members of the Labor Party ought to try to understand. They should read the speeches of that era. They should understand the judgments that led that man to the conclusions that he announced to the world. The seat that is occupied by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  is named in the honour of John Curtin. Although John Curtin admitted the terror that was in his heart, and although he announced the truth and the reality of what was deep in his own body causing him great concern, we recognise the great honour and privilege that he gave to this country in the work that he did for it. And that is why the Minister for Supply represents a seat that bears a very proud name. Notwithstanding that, it is fair and reasonable for me in criticism to say that this motion, in my judgment, is the type of motion that would certainly never have enjoyed the support of such a distinguished person as the late right honourable John Curtin. 
In conclusion I repeat that I regard this motion as frivolous, designed to attract publicity, to give the media an opportunity to indulge in sensationalism. It is characterised by a reference that is totally inaccurate. There is no suggestion, for example, that there has been a request for assistance for the training of troops from Laos, yet so well was the homework done by members of the Opposition that, when the honourable and gallant gentlemen from the other side of this place who yearned with such depth of feeling to occupy the treasury bench spoke they could not even get their facts straight. AH I can say is that they deserve no respect, and this motion ought to see all members on the Government side showing their indignation and their dis respect for such stupidity by voting in support of the honour, integrity and the ability of the Minister for Defence. 
I rise in this extremely important debate this evening conscious of the fact that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is the Opposition's expert in the field of transport. I have listened to him on many occasions in this Parliament addressing himself to the many problems facing Australia in the development of its systems of transport in the air and on the land and the sea. I am conscious of the fact that he brings a great deal of dedication to a study of these particular problems. This evening we have been confronted by a most fascinating performance. The Bill introduced by the Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  seeks the approval of the Parliament to a borrowing by the Commonwealth of SUS 11,310,400 from the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Boeing Company and to an appropriation of the Loan Fund of an amount not exceeding SA1 3, 150,000 to assist Qantas Airways Ltd in financing the purchase of not more than 2 Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment, spare parts and services. 
The honourable member for Newcastle has moved an amendment that the Bill should be delayed until firm arrangements are made for substantial co-production procedures for imported aircraft and until a select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management in relation to crew retrenchment, migrant carriage contracts, charters and fares. With great respect to my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle,  I  think there is very little in common between the amendment and the Bill before this House. I hold the view that the honourable member for Newcastle is indicating in a widespread manner his dissatisfaction and the dissatisfaction of the Opposition with the general situation in the aviation industry in Australia. The reference to co-production procedures for imported aircraft relates, as he said, to the Australian industry engaged in manufacturing aircraft in this country. This has nothing to do with the management or the board of directors of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
With all the best intentions on this earth, there is nothing that those gentlemen could do in the sense of an exercise of their responsibilities to impress their views upon the Government in such a way as to make it mandatory for the Government to be cognisant of them and to act in accordance with them. The second part of the amendment is obviously an implication that the Qantas management has not been able, to the satisfaction of the honourable member for Newcastle and his colleagues, to manage effectively that great company in relation to air crews, the passage of migrants, charters and fares throughout the world. Great as is my respect for the honourable member for Newcastle, I suggest in all humility that the gentlemen in charge of Qantas are a little more experienced in these affairs than he and his honourable and gallant colleagues on that side of the Parliament. 
I propose therefore, as this challenge has been thrown down, to talk about the problems that face Qantas and the need for this Bill, in the first place the Government, which is making these arrangements for a vast sum of money to be made available to Qantas to purchase these aircraft, does so with the customary ill grace that all governments in British Commonwealth countries provide funds for any reason. They do not willingly make such vast sums of money available. The Government is doing so because it believes that it is in the best interests of the company and of the Commonwealth. I hope tonight to convince this House that there is not much argument about that proposition. Qantas Airways Ltd is a company engaged in the international civil aviation industry, competing in what is the most highly competitive field on this earth, in which profits are marginal having regard to all the circumstances associated with technological advancement over recent years and those doubtful, difficult to define problems like national image. Because of all of these factors civil aviation has become more and more competitive. 
Among the emerging countries it has been vital to have a flag carrier. If one finishes up with some gentleman who  wa3  in the Luftwaffe in 1945 and another who was in the Royal Air Force in 1945, it matters not. One may find them sitting side by side in a large aircraft from the United States of America which has been acquired under some lend lease arrangement or hire purchase arrangement, doing the best they can to represent some very insignificant country with a small population situated in the centre of a vast continent like Africa. In these circumstances the rest of the world is provided with an enormous problem. There are hundreds and hundreds of highly expensive seats, in terms of the cost of research and development, floating around this world. They are magnificent seats. They are well appointed. As so many honourable members, including my' gallant and honourable friend from Newcastle, know, the only significant thing about this situation economically speaking is that those seats must be filled. The seats are empty, and this is why Qantas is in trouble. 
It has been said that Qantas should have gone out into the market. This is the type of thing that is provided for in the Bill. Qantas is going into the market by acquiring modern equipment to compete with other companies throughout the world which are also acquiring modern equipment. I would have thought that the honourable member for Newcastle would have addressed himself to some of the fundamental problems that have confronted this great Australian company. We all accept the fact that Qantas is a great Australian company. Those of us who served in the Royal Australian Air Force in the Second World War can testify from personal experience to the great work that Qantas did during that world war. I propose to say something about its defence significance in relation to the future of Australia and to relate Qantas to the problems of world civil aviation today. All honourable members are familiar with the fact that motor cars in this developing economy are being churned out at the rate of almost one different type a year. There is competition in that prosperous industry in which a newer model must be secured by the families in the suburbs. 
The same type of malaise has been striking at the aviation industry. In 1944 governments got together, cognisant of the fact that there was a real need for some rational, sensible arrangement. Governments had to understand that if these great ships of the air were to be launched around the world with people in them there had to be some sense of order, regulation and control. Nations had to agree how this should best be done. This they did. Lured by the attractiveness of this modern, new method of travel they have poured hundreds of millions of dollars, in terms of infrastructure, into edifices on the ground, such as the buildings at Tullamarine and Sydney Airports. Examples in the rest of the world which have cost the taxpayers enormous sums of money are beyond description in a short speech in this House. This is the background against which we must see the whole problem. Governments have been providing vast sums of money. Our competitor - Qantas is Australia - carries the flag of which I know all honourable members are extremely proud. Qantas has to take its place in the world market. The sky up there is an international market place. 
Let us look at the percentage distribution on the basis of what the flying people in their extraordinary jargon - we do have some odd expressions in this place so I am sure that honourable members will forgive the aviation people for their odd expressions - call passenger kilometers performed in 1970. The regular public transport operators in the United States performed 55.08 per cent. Then we move down with a sickening rush to the United Kingdom with 4.97 per cent, Canada with 3.88 per cent, Japan with 3.69 per cent and France with 3.53 per cent. That is the total of the big five in world aviation. These are the people who are finding hundreds of millions of dollars to buy aeroplanes such as the Boeing 747, the Boeing 707 that preceded it, and the VC10. Governments are supporting Swissair, Sabena, Lufthansa, Air France and BOAC. 
The taxpayers' money is being employed and therefore it is mandatory upon these gifted, dedicated men who have served this country with great honour and integrity and who today head Qantas to maintain a standard comparable to that maintained by similar people throughout the world. They are competing against their own types throughout the world and, believe me, competition is tough when you live at a pedal extremity of Asia where the civil aviation environment has to be measured in thousands of people and thousands of flights per annum. When you think of the odd remarks by the honourable member for Newcastle about Lufthansa, which sits in the middle of Europe and an economic community of 500 million people, you need an abacus because you would need to consider the facts in relation to potential markets. If you consider the number of flights that are made from the north American continent to the continent of Europe and look at the picture that can be seen in the reports of the International Air Transport Association and the reports of Qantas, you see the enormous problem this poses for Qantas which gets 23 per cent of its revenue from the Pacific route whereas the United States, which holds 55 per cent of world operations, gets only 3 per cent. 
A serious consideration of this matter makes it mandatory that this Bill be agreed to tonight. It would be an insult to the board, to the directors, to the people who run this great Australian airline to prevent them from having the financial support that this Government, with all the reluctance which characterises governments, has unwillingly provided for them. As I said, the big five have 71.15 per cent of all traffic throughout the world and Australia has 2.32 per cent. This is what we are talking about. We are a small country in this field. Why does the Opposition imagine that great companies with international reputations such as Rolls Royce which are known in almost every home in Australia are in financial trouble? Why does the Opposition think that in Seattle, on the northwest coast of the United States, there is an unemployment level of 1 24 per cent? Why is the Boeing company in trouble? 
it is so simple. 1 find with great delight that my honourable colleague from Robertson says: 'Bad management'. It is a fair enough comment to make, but I wonder whether we could find within the Opposition better management than we can in Qantas itself. I find the humour of this almost macabre. This company needs the financial support of this Parliament and it will not survive in the jungle inhabited by the regular public transport operators throughout the world unless it gets that support. 
Somewhere today people said to me: Would it not be good if they were all good, honest IATA members?' Is there such a thing on this earth? If there is such a thing I would like to hear about it. 1 hold the view that in this marginal business it is almost an essential that the operators will do the best they can to get these seats filled in all circumstances. Hundreds of people have been leaving Australia and flying to Singapore in the economy seats of Qantas, climbing out of those seats, getting into sub-standard chartered aircraft and flying to the United Kingdom for one-quarter of the price. IATA will not survive and the regular public transport operators in this world will not survive until those people who move around the fringes of the international civil aviation industry are removed. It is an extremely difficult thing for one like myself - what one might call a tory in terms of commerce - to make such a remark but I predict that the time will come when the vast millions that have been poured into the infrastructure of civil aviation will make it necessary for govern ments to do some heavy thinking about whether this vast investment is to be sacrificed or whether there is to be a complete understanding of the position of the regular . international public transport operators in civil aviation and, in particular, of that vast jig-saw puzzle that has seen our small company with its particular problems. 
I hold the view that the operations of Qantas have been magnificent. I could talk to honourable members about it for another half an hour. I could go through the details of the benefits that Qantas bestows on the economy. I will say this, and I will say it from my heart: If this Parliament believes that it is reasonable to pay attention to this most involved and complicated amendment, then I will be ashamed of the Parliament. The proper thing to do is to follow the motion that the Bill be read a second time and to support the Bill. It is the least we can do to help these people because I have never known a captain of the quality, the standard and the character of those to whom I refer who derived any pleasure from putting a young man out of a job. That they would do so I find to be a monstrous and dreadful suggestion. The facts are that the people who are in control of this great company are doin* the best they can and from the advice I have, although some of those who have been retrenched have had to find other forms of employment, a very small percentage of them are in receipt of unemployment benefit. I very much doubt whether honourable members opposite would be able to provide detailed information to disprove that statement. 
I have not had an opportunity to put Qantas in its proper position in the Australian economy. I say now that over the years about $15m has been paid by that company in taxation to the Australian Government. That process will go on if we support the company. We need the faith, the courage and the belief that Qantas will succeed. Let me tell honourable members that if this was the German parliament and I was suggesting that Lufthansa would fail I would be thrown out of the door. If it was the Chamber of Deputies and I was suggesting that Air France should be allowed to fail I would be ejected from the chamber. Therefore, in the last moments, I remind the House that we are committed to Qantas and by the mass committed we shall stay. 
It is a strange atmosphere that we find in the chamber this afternoon. An air of despondency has been detectable in the various speeches that have been made. I would like to express some views clearly and concisely to those honourable gentlemen who have addressed the chamber from the other side and to those who have spoken from the Government side. (Quorum formed.) Mention has been made of the programme that has been announced in relation to the Navy. The worries and concern felt in some quarters about the cost of the DDL ships for the Navy are of great concern to the Government. In my opinion, the House should give its support to the programme. Even if each of these ships is going to cost something of the order of $100m over the next 15 years or so, it is my firm conviction that time will reveal that the programme is vital, that there will be a need for the ships and that they will play a significant part in the future defence of Australia. I say this because in a world environment which is changing throughout the 1970s - this may be a cause of alarm to my friend from Wills  (Mr Bryant)  - we will have a situation where, by 1990, the greatest naval power on this earth will be the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
I am firmly convinced that pragmatists as the Communists are, they are not creating the greatest naval force known in the history of mankind without having a real reason for so doing. In this environment it will be absolutely essential for the people of Australia, irrespective of rising costs, to find the courage, the capacity and the dedication to the welfare of their country to put forward their own best capacity in the defence of Australia. The United States, in the terms of the doctrine of  President  Nixon, has made it clear that it is not deserting its friends and that it is prepared in the case of overt attack or open aggression against them to defend them. However, it has asked those people who are bound to it by alliances to do the utmost they possibly can to make the greatest possible contribution in terms of their own defence, so as to be worthy of the defence effort of the United States. In these circumstances, what a poor and miserable lot Australians would be if they were prepared to avoid that necessary defence effort which will earn the respect of our powerful allies. 
It has been said in this place that Australia must be seen as standing alone. In my judgment this is arrant and utter nonsense. I accept the statement of the  President  of the United States of America, just as the leaders of the Australian Labor Party accepted statements of one of his predecessors almost 30 years ago. From that day to this, such statements have meant that the men and women of the 
United States of America would stand side by side with Australians against aggression. I am firmly convinced that that is the situation today. I am also firmly convinced that whether or not the United Kingdom enters the European Economic Community, the forces of the United Kingdom will be available to defend Australia in the rare circumstances of Australia being attacked without there being a global war in progress. I repeat that the United States of America, through its  President,  has made it clear that it will stand with us and all that it expects us to do, in the terms of the local jargon, is to pull our own weight. We can do this only when we are prepared to meet the cost of modern, sophisticated equipment. This the Australian public will accept if the Government goes out, talks to the people of Australia and explains the problems to them. (Quorum formed) 
It is only fair to comment that there are 4 times as many Government supporters in the chamber as there are members of the Opposition and, from what I know of my colleagues, they are 4 times as good, too. I should like to make it quite clear that the greatest threat to the future of Australia is the type of covert war which we have seen as the modern pattern of warfare. I instance the wars of national liberation, which are based upon subversion and the destruction of the fabric of a prosperous and permissive society. Here is the basis of the very threat that exists in this country and throughout the rest of the world. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  lamented the fact that Australia has troops stationed in Malaysia and Singapore and he referred in particular to racial tensions which may erupt into civil war within these 2 countries and other Asian countries. Perhaps this does constitute a threat to Australia but it is in fact the very weakness that the Communists are always seeking to exploit. Again and again I have heard members of the Opposition asserting that the subversion and the destruction of the fabric of the society of Indo-China is simply an illustration of civil war and that we ought not to be taking part in the attempts to defend our friends. The wars of national liberation are now familiar in many parts of the world, and the Communists and their friends are the people who supply the arms and ammunition. The other day a large aircraft loaded with arms was leaving Europe to go to Northern Ireland; there is not much doubt that those arms came from behind the Iron Curtain. 
As I have only about 45 seconds remaining, I shall say this: I am in favour of the warships for the fleet; I am in favour of better aeroplanes for the Air Force; I am in favour of more and more Australians being put into uniforms and taught to be able to stand up straight and be men. I am not prepared to support people who are going to grovel to a group of oriental potentates stretching from Peking down to Hanoi, people who do not have the moral courage to stand up for what the Australian flag and its people have always meant. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
This evening members of the Committee already have referred to the fact that we are dealing with the estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department. My remarks were to be addressed to the estimates for the Repatriation Department, but firstly I believe that  1  should make one or two comments about the statements which have been made in the last half hour by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when speaking for the Opposition on the matter of social services. A national superannuation scheme, to which they have referred in glowing terms and with the utmost optimism and certainty that they will be able to attract political support in Australia for their proposals, has been a dream for members of this Parliament over a long period. I venture to suggest that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is at the table tonight, has dedicated himself and has given as much time and has done as much research and hard work towards achieving a solution to this problem as has any other human being who has ever sat in this chamber. I hold the view that if the problems are to be solved then this Minister of State will solve them. I have no doubt that in the near future his programmes will be considered by the Australian Government and if they are found acceptable in the light of current economic circumstances they will be of tremendous political significance in terms of providing part of a political platform. 
As I see it, the problem has been one of cost. The honourable member for Oxley, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, made a rather brief reference to a figure of $ 1,800m. If we repeat this figure solemnly and in a straightforward manner we must admit that we are facing an enormous sum. The honourable member referred to cost of living adjustments but, of course, he neglected to refer to the corresponding increases in taxation which would be necessary during each financial year in order to provide for the extra sums of money which would need to be found to compensate for cost of Jiving adjustments or, to put it in straightforward terms, the inflationary effect in the developing Australian economy. 
As honourable members know, in the 1937-38 financial year a former Prime Minister was dedicated to the concept of national superannuation, but his Government found that it would be impossible of fulfilment. At that time, having made certain promises to his electorate, the right honourable gentleman resigned from the Cabinet. In the post-war period when Australia was wealthier than ever before in her history, when she had just passed through a great war and when she had a balance of payments position without parallel in the history of economic development of our country, the last Labor Prime Minister, the late Right Honourable J. B. Chifley, wrestled with this problem concerning a national superannuation scheme and, if any human being at that time could possibly have introduced such a scheme, he would have done so. The facts are that the economics of the problem were such, the costs of the operation were such, that he knew full well that in an aging community the impact of this extra taxation upon the young people would be so great and so intense that they would never support it, and that problem exists today. It will require the best brains that we can brins to bear on this problem for a national superannuation scheme to be introduced with financial commitments being met by taxpayers over and above income taxation and over and above the indirect taxation which they must meet from day to day in their normal lives. Over and above all these things there will have to be a particular commitment from the young people in an aging community. 
If a national superannuation scheme is to cost $ 1,800m in this financial year - and I venture to suggest that the honourable member for Oxley would not be exaggerating that figure because in political terms I suspect that it helps his argument if he can keep it down to a minimum figure - then I suggest that in the present economic environment, with inflation in the community and with the rising cost of living, the cost of the scheme over the next three or four financial years would increase at an alarming rate. I very much doubt whether the younger people and the lower and middle income groups, who were paying taxation at such a high rate some years ago that there was enormous political pressure from people in the civil service and from people throughout the community to reduce the rate of taxation upon the lower and middle income groups, would be prepared to meet that extra commitment. Like every other honourable member, I admit that the very operation of the means test is in itself an injustice; it prevents thrift; it encourages people to spend their money in order to qualify for the pension; it brings out in the community qualities which we do not wish to encourage. 
Whilst all this is true, the fact remains that the cost of the introduction of a national superannuation scheme at this stage of Australia's economic development would result in large increases in taxation having to be met by every individual seeking to make a contribution in the hope that when his turn came to receive a retirement allowance, that allowance would be increased with a cost of living adjustment each year. One can imagine the problem when one looks at the necessity and the demand in the community for proper assistance for those in most need. When one looks at that aspect of the matter one sees that it would be difficult in these circum stances to help people with a national superannuation scheme unless one put upon that scheme another hardship by way of an age and invalid pension to be added to the sums which the actuaries would work out for us. 
I hope that the Minister will be able to introduce a satisfactory scheme. I will give him all the support I possibly can. 1 wish him well, and I have no doubt that all of those good men who sit opposite and who are interested in adopting a compassionate and humane approach to life would agree with me. But the problems are economic and social, and there will be antipathy from the younger people in the community; of this there can be no doubt, and anyone who denies this and so tries to mislead this chamber does the nation no real service. As I said previously, I hold the view that if a national superannuation scheme can be introduced, then the Minister for Social Services will do it. I hope that he will be successful. I regret that these asides by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley have prevented me altogether from speaking about the Repatriation Department which I still regard as one of the great magnanimous departments in this country, a tribute to governments over a long time, and I even include in that favourable remark governments of the political persuasion of my colleagues opposite. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science information for the House on the results of the policy announced some time ago related to the teaching of the English language to adults and children resident in Australia after emigration from overseas countries where English is not the lingua franca? 
I rise to speak in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs and to note, with approval, an increase of approximately $8.5m in the appropriation over last year's expenditure, making an estimate for this year, 1971-72, of $89,913,000. I refer to the speech made by my friend the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and to tell him how impressed I was with the expression in the last part of his speech, that Australia needed leadership from men with strong wills, clear hearts and honour; men not prone to prevarication. As that constitutes a challenge, I think it is about time that this Committee had some truths brought home to it. 
Turning to recent events in the United Nations, I refer in particular to the expulsion of the Republic of China from and the introduction of the People's Republic of China to the General Assembly and the Security Council. During my speech I will refer to the Government of Taiwan or the Government of Taipeh and to the Government of Peking. It may be of interest to the honourable member for Hunter to note that Article 23 of the United Nations Charter, which defines the composition of the Security Council, states: 
The Security Council shall consist of fifteen Members of the United Nations. The Republic of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America shall be permanent members of the Security Council. The General Assembly shall elect ten other Members of the United Nations to be nonpermanent members of the Security Council, due regard being specially paid, in the first instance to the contribution of Members of the United Nations to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the other purposes of the Organization, and also to equitable geographical distribution. 
That is the amended text of Article 23 which came into force on 31st August 1965. 
I will have a copy sent to the honourable member. I propose to look at one of the leading members of the Security Council engaged in the maintenance of international peace and to contrast the activities of that government and that country with the words in Article 23 of the United Nations Charter which I have just read to the Committee. In Czechoslovakia in August 1968 the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics gave a clear indication of its enormous military power and its ability with that military power to control internal policy within Czechoslovakia. No rational person in this chamber would challenge the fact that at that time the Czechoslovakian Government was engaged in internal policies to democratise, as we understand the word, the society in that country. Because the Russian Government took the view that this constituted a threat to the internal as well as to the external security of Russia, it is common knowledge that enormous military forces, backed by the full power of the Warsaw Pact, moved into Czechoslovakia. I need say no more on that as a manifestation of the testimony of the contribution which Russia makes towards international peace. 
The activity of Russia in the Middle East, with its penetration with the most advanced technology into a sensitive area in which there have been active violent operations of war in recent years and the introduction of the latest models of aircraft, is designed to threaten peace. The threats against Israel have been constant over a long period of time and they have been supported, to a degree which cannot be challenged in this chamber, and greatly augmented by the power of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In recent days in this chamber we have had many discussions about naval power. Government supporters have been expressing judgments and reflecting upon the ability and capacity of Australians to meet the demands for sophisticated naval power under the control of the Australian Government. In referring to those people, about whom the honourable member for Hunter spoke, with strong wills, clear hearts and a sense of honour, I would say that unless those qualities are found and unless this country is induced to accept the burden, then in my judgment the likelihood of survival will be greatly reduced. 
I turn to the recent admission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations General Assembly and to the Security Council and refer to actions in Tibet into which the United Nations organisation itself carried out a complete inquiry. That commission of inquiry has reported and established - and this was fully accepted by the General Assembly - that genocide was practised in Tibet at that time. Attacks on Quemoy and Matsu and attacks on Taiwan or Formosa have been constant over a long period of time. Governments of honour and governments of courage must at some stage ask themselves whether they would condone an outright onslaught upon Taiwan so that it could be brought under the complete political control of Peking. I have no doubt that when it does occur some voices will be raised in this place in support of the Oriental potentates of Peking. I notice from the Press that there is likely to be one less in number, a gentleman distinguished by his military background named Lin Piao. 
How will Peking behave in the Security Council and the General Assembly? Let it be our fervent hope and prayer that that behaviour will not be characterised by the activities which led to the judgments that have been expressed by  Mrs Ghandi  and by the Dalai Lama from the refuge he was able to find in India. These are problems of great difficulty; they are problems of great moment for the people of Australia. When honourable members opposite become concerned by the establishment of particular bases of advanced technology in this country which, they say, make this country more likely to be a nuclear target, I feel I must say to them that the old adage of the Returned Services League, "The price of peace is eternal vigilance', should be taken into their minds and hearts, studied and properly understood. These are the facts of life. Wars occur only when aggressors believe they can win them. Wars do not occur when aggressors - the people who seek war - are not able to assess their chances of victory as favourable. World War II began when the German government was convinced that the British would not fight. If it had been listening to members of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament at that 'time it would have held the view that if the ALP had been in government the last thing it would have done was fight. That is true and it can be checked in Hansard. The speeches made by members of the Labor Party at that time were definitely speeches that would encourage the aggressor to believe that there would be no fighting from a government of their colour. The truth is that Australia's defence is part and parcel of an international pattern and is bound up with the United States of America. I repeat my absolute confidence in the statements that have been made by the United States  President  on behalf of that 
Government. I believe that Australia's future survival in the Pacific will be side by side with our powerful allies. 
I rise to support the proposed expenditure for the Department of Civil Aviation and to answer some of the criticisms that have been mentioned in relation to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. It has long been recognised that the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport is the only primary airport site which is readily accessible to the heart of Sydney, and that as a result it should be developed to the maximum degree compatible with land use in nearby areas, including residential areas, and the plans of the New South Wales Government to develop a seaport within Botany Bay. It follows that Sydney Airport has been progressively developed into this jet era with proper regard to internationally approved air safety criteria. It so happens that only the north south runway and not the east west runway can be extended, but this has permitted the increasing use of the north south runway for noise abatement purposes in recent years. 
Having said this, I wish to reaffirm that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is most conscious of the problems that do exist in the flight paths that are within the electorates of St George and Kingsford-Smith. But I would recommend to the Committee that a study be made of those plans that the local government authorities which are complaining enormously about these flight paths have made in relation to development within their own local government areas. I repeat: Notwithstanding the impact of aircraft noise upon those suburban municipal areas the fact is that the local government authorities have approved many and extensive local area development plans. I believe this to be significant. I feel that it may also be worth while to re-emphasise that it is the absolute prerogative of a pilot in command to nominate his runway, to plan his take-off or landing weights within the prescribed standards for that runway and with proper regard for runway length and strength, the prevailing or expected weather and the operational supporting facilities which are available. This comment is necessary because of the remarks that were made earlier tonight which cast a reflection upon the control capacity of the Department and, if I may say so, the integrity of the captains so involved. 
The pavement lengths now available are 8,300 feet east west and 9,100 feet north south. These runway lengths meet all but the very long range requirements of the Boeing 707s, DC8s and Boeing 747s flying international routes. Very long Boeing 707 flights were very much the exception when the north South runway was last extended at about the middle of the last decade. The north south runway as then designed met all applicable Australian and international safety requirements for the prevailing pattern of operations. Whilst criticisms are understandable in this place, and while we are all very conscious of the enormous personal pressures placed upon members in relation to aircraft noise, I feel that it is vital that this House record some of the essential factors in relation to civil aviation today. In the debate on the measure to provide a loan to Qantas to purchase Boeing 747s I referred to the problems that face Australia and I feel that I should refer tonight to the marginal state of the aviation industry. 
References have been made tonight to the private enterprise airline and to the Australian civil aviation duopoly, the double pattern of our domestic interstate operations. Those references have made it clear that in the view of honourable members opposite the Government has been supporting the private enterprise airline conducted by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. I remind honourable members of the marginal position of airlines all over the world at present. I wish to cite some figures from 'Aviation News Digest' published by Esso on 17th September last. They may be of interest to honourable members. British European Airways lost $1.9m in the past fiscal year compaired with a profit of $26.4m in the previous year. In the previous fiscal year the whole BEA group showed a profit of $15.6m. That carrier's loss in the past fiscal year is the first it has shown since 1953-54. In the United States Allegheny Airlines, which is by no means a leading airline, lost $375,000 in July compared with a profit of $26,000 in July last year. Total revenue for the year was $ 14.99m, an increase of 12 per cent over the previous year. 
National Airlines, a well known local airline in the United States, showed a loss of $3.89m for the year ended 30th June 1971, in spite of a profit of $2.84m in the fourth quarter. I could go on to cite many figures to illustrate the problem faced by companies using aeroplanes in search of a commercial profit. 
In spite of complaints made by my colleagues on both sides of the chamber I can assure them from my own personal experience that airline operations are very difficult. So many of the small airlines, particularly those referred to as the third level airlines, have found it impossible to borrow the money needed to purchase aircraft, to service loans, and to maintain their services at a reasonable standard of profit in order to pay a dividend. The  result  is that they face financial difficulties of a very stringent nature. 1 turn now to the problem of deciding on a site for a second airport for Sydney. 1 support my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who has been faced with many problems as a result of the proposal of the Government to ignore what is in fact the best proposal; that is in respect of the lower or southern section of the Royal National Park, with an approach over the Pacific Ocean. I realise that this will not be a very popular suggestion in the eyes of conservationists. I refer to an area which can be described only as bleak, unattractive and without any of the qualities which would make this part of the national park one which would attract tourist activities or which would be visited by many people. It is the Wattamolla area which is in the far south of the Royal National Park. Although my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  may argue that the choice of the Wattamolla site would bring an international airport close to his own area and cause some problems for him, I believe the facts indicate that with an approach across the water the Wattamolla site, with a vast area with no human habitation close to it at present, is the best site for such an airport. Knowing the area as I do. I hold the view that it is in the best interests of the country that Sydney should have its second airport built not in the electorate of Mitchell but in the Wattamolla area. 

 - Mr Speaker, as  Chairman  1 present the 133rd report of the Public Accounts Committee. 1 seek leave to make a short statement. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs will recall that on. Tuesday the Minister for Defence was asked whether the Government and the Opposition had reached a climate which might be described as bipartisan on defence and foreign policy. Can the Minister inform the House whether such a climate or such an environment has been reached regarding the ANZUS Treaty? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on  a  scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray 
Petition received. 
1 ask the Minister for Defence: Has he any information available to confirm or refute the presence of a United Slates Strategic Air Force aircraft type SR71A - a reconnaissance type - at a Royal Australian Air Force base in South Australia? 
As Chairman I present the 134th report of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
As the PostmasterGeneral is no doubt aware of the presence in Canberra of a deputation of postal unions seeking to interview honourable members on matters affecting his Department, can he inform the House on the background to these activities and the potential consequences of them? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficienciesin education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. In view of the long-standing financial ties between Australia and Great Britain, has the British undertaking to the 
European Economic Community to consider modifying the role of sterling as a reserve currency after the British entry into the European Economic Community caused the Treasurer any concern? How will any such move affect the future of Australia's international reserves, a large portion of which are invested in British securities? Further, will the Treasurer comment upon the effect upon British investment within Australia? 
 In opposing the amendment I want to make some comments on the amendment which has been moved and to indicate that I am unable to agree with the sentiments which have been ably expressed by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  who has just spoken. I refer, particularly since a shadow Minister for the Opposition, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  is at the table, to 1947 when he was present in this chamber. On looking around I think he is, apart from the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  one of the very few who were present then. At that time legislation to totally nationalise banking within the Commonwealth of Australia was introduced by a former Prime Minister, the distinguished predecessor of the honourable member for Macquarie. I am sure that the honourable member for Grayndler will recall that petitions, almost one by one but on behalf of hundreds and hundreds of people, were presented and were completely ignored because the policy of the then Government had been laid clearly before the Parliament. The Government which was in office then was an Australian Labor Party Government, led by the distinguished late right honourable member for Macquarie who was replaced in this Parliament by the present member. 
I said the late Prime Minister. The Government that was led by the late right honourable member for Macquarie had no intention of answering each of the individual petitions. The present honourable member for Macquarie is supporting this amendment which seeks to put onto the petition a significance which he knows full well has never been attached to it previously by his own Party when in government. 
That is an irrelevancy. I am merely dealing with matters of fact. I am not talking about whether this is a free vote. I am pointing out that when Government policy is quite clear it is an absurdity to suggest that there should be constant repetition of the same petition, leading to the time of Ministers and the House being occupied with the subject of the petition. I could go along with the proposition that the petition, having been received and read, should not be repeatedly received and read. But the end result of what has been proposed by the honourable member for Corio will be the consumption of the time of the House of Representatives by a constant reappearance and repetition of the same petition. I think this is wrong, and I believe we ought to apply ourselves more appropriately to the business before the House. One of the matters that should concern us is the extraordinary way in which we lose IS to 20 minutes almost every day of sitting by the constant repetition of petitions. I think it is fair and reasonable that a petition, once received, should be read to the Parliament and placed on record as being a petition put before the House of Representatives. That should be the end of the reception of that petition. But to have honourable members one after the other presenting petitions in identical terms is to me absurd and obviously political. It is obviously done to waste the time of the House of Representatives and to interfere with the function of government. 
I am not prepared to exclude any matter. Many, many petitions which have been in exactly the same terms have been repeated. This is what I wish to avoid. I believe that once a petition has been put forward it is reasonable that there should be an announcement by the Government in reply to it, but I believe that it ought not be repeated ad nauseam so that it wastes the time of the House. As I have said, if ever there was one momentous matter which interested, concerned and vitally animated the whole of the Australian community it was a Bill introduced in 1947 to nationalise banking within Australia. Honourable members opposite, including the distinguished member for Grayndler, who is sitting at the table at this moment, know that when their Party was in office it absolutely ignored the reactions of the Australian people, and, with great respect to the honourable member for Macquarie, this makes a mockery of what he has just been saying. 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the words in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I am very favourably impressed with it, although, for reasons that I endeavoured to make clear, ( was not able to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Although he indicated that large numbers of repetitious petitions would not involve a great deal of administrative work, I was just not able to understand his amendment in the terms he used. 1 regret that 1 had to arouse the ire of the distinguished honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who leads for the Opposition in this matter, when I made reference to the fact that the outstanding public issue of 1947, the great issue of the nationalisation of the banking industry in this country, was the classic illustration of the attitude of the last Labor government. The distinguished honourable member for Grayndler sits in this House today, 22 years later, still a shining example of that government which he supported on almost every occasion. He knows that in the circumstances to which I was forced to refer, not because of any reason related to irritation or to cause annoyance to honourable gentlemen opposite but simply because when Labor was last in government this was the cause celebre so far as its members were concerned, the petitions that came into this place on behalf of thousands of petitioners, in addition to the letters that were referred to by the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  were, as I said, ignored at that time. 
I can see merit in this amendment moved by the very experienced honourable member for Riverina, with whose long distinguished career in the New South Wales Parliament we are all familiar. I see merit in it because in recent times I have heard senior gentlemen who sit opposite asserting their firm conviction that in 1973 a Labor government would occupy the Treasury bench in this chamber. Cognisant as I am that the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  the learned distinguished patriarch of the Australian Labor 
Party, has in recent days asserted with great clarity that bank nationalisation is still the policy of the ALP, and aware of the fact that there will be many hundreds of thousands of petitions  coming into  this Parliament, I see merit in the establishment of a petitions committee. The right honourable member for Melbourne, the distinguished patriarch of that great political party, the ALP, has said in recent times that al! the policies of the Chifley Government are adhered to in 1973 with the same dedication, the same devotion and the same warmth with which they were held in the hearts and in the minds of members of the Labor Party in 1948 and 1949. In the light of these circumstances and the tendency of honourable gentlemen opposite to assert with great vigour and conviction that they will occupy the Treasury benches and be responsible for government in this country, and bearing in mind that they will seek to nationalise hanking, air transport and all the great industries in Australia, I see merit in the proposal. I believe that 1 will support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina because, if such an evil day arose in this House, a petitions committee may be of some value in reminding a government of the responsibility which was so eloquently referred to by my learned and distinguished friend, the honourable member from Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti). 
I would like some clarification because J have been confused by the speech of my friend the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  The honourable member referred a number of times to the fact that there is to be what he describes as a 'free vote'. Last night 1 was castigated by some honourable members for introducing into the debate what was described as a 'political note'. Whilst [ understood that we are to have a free vote on this issue I would like honourable members to accept my word that I was not at the same time aware of the fact that as there was to be a free vote there should be no political content in matters raised in the debate. I would have thought that the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  would be very familiar with the issues referred to by the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  such as arriving at his hotel at 7.30 in the morning. Although the decisions in relation to times and the Standing Orders in par ticular are to be seen as an individual free expression of opinion, it is nevertheless true - I am quite sure that the honourable member for Wilmot would not deny this - that when we assemble in this place the responsibility for the functioning of the Parliament - for the keeping of the House - rests with the Government Parties. 
The Opposition assumes the posture will enable it most efficiently to interfere with the discharge of the responsibility of members who support the Government. It seems to me that while it may be necessary, as has been said by honourable members opposite, for so much time to be used for petitions and matters of this descriptionissues of great public urgency - there does appear to be an attempt to reduce to an absolute minimum those hours which will be available for the discharge of Government business. The support of the Queen's Ministers in this place is the function collectively and the main responsibility of the members who sit behind the treasury bench on this side of the House. I therefore feel that it is impossible to break up the responsibility in such a way as to say that the discharge of the individual free vote relying upon the conscience of each individual can be carried out so as to ignore the collective responsibility of honourable members on this side of the chamber and honourable members opposite. 
The honourable member for Wilmot knows full well, because he was here in 1947, in 1948 and in 1949, that the late right honourable member for Macquarie, the present right honourable member for Melbourne, the former honourable member for Corio and the other distinguished gentlemen who were Ministers of the King  at  that time would have given no more time or moment to the reduction of the period of time to be devoted to their business,  as  suggested by the Opposition, than Ministers of State will today. These are the facts. My friend the honourable member for Mallee has made it  cleaT  that under the Chifley Government he was here until 7.30 in the morning. I venture to suggest that the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Grayndler know full well that, even if tonight the Labor Party were in government, that situation would not change. 
It would not change. I venture to suggest that the functions of Government members will not change and, although honourable members opposite talk about a free vote, it must be a free vote seen in the context of the political arena. It is manifestly absurd to say that there is nothing political in this matter. If there is a reduction ad absurdum in time, then the Government will never get its business through. Honourable members know perfectly well, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said, that there is no point in closing off debate at 10 o'clock if we are to go on having arguments on the less significant matters - less significant in terms of government business and business before the House, though not necessarily less significant to an individual member and his electorate - because we do not achieve any extra time for relaxation or rest for honourable members as they will be in this place debating for a further 2 hours the motion to adjourn the House. 
Therefore I submit with great respect that the fact of the matter is that this cannot be described as a debate in which there is no politics. This is unfair. It is unreasonable. What is more, I suggest with great respect that it is untrue. Therefore I believe that we should examine the Standing Orders having regard to the responsibilities of the Executive and the discharge of their proper responsibilities to honourable members in this House. If there is one thing that characterises the House of Representatives, it is that those who govern should be able to depend upon the sagacity and support of those who sit behind them and that those who sit in opposition will oppose. 
I admit, with great respect, that there are some times when it is difficult to tell whether people are awake or asleep; but, generally speaking, as long as we are treated to the wit and humour of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  the kind expressions and fascinating speeches of my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler and the undoubted wit of my friend the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  we will be awake most of the time. Therefore 
I feel that in those circumstances we should bear in mind that the Government has a responsibility to have the business of the House completed in a reasonable time. To reduce the hours in which to deal with the business of the House would make the Government's problem much greater and we would be likely to find ourselves involved in a great deal of personal trouble and personal embarrassment and be forced to revert to the 4-day sitting week that we tried for a long period of time until honourable members, particularly those members who came from afar, found themselves suffering mental and physical exhaustion. For that reason I am prone to believe that we ought not to support the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Wills. 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs I refer to the invasion of South Vietnam by the powerful army of North Vietnam supported by Russia. In view of the offensive being waged by North Vietnam and the likelihood of considerable refugee problems in the South, has the Government of Australia considered the provision of civilian aid to the people who have been forced to flee from their homes? If so, can the Minister give the House any details of the Australian assistance? 
Normally I would take no part in this debate as I am accustomed to some of the histrionics that one sees from time to time from members of the Opposition. However, on this occasion, in direct rebuttal of what has been said by my friend, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I wish to say to the House and particularly to the honourable member for Wills that I believe that the personal attack which has been made in the interests of certain coming events in the State of Queensland ought to  he.  refuted. To charge the Leader of the 
House, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr Swartz),  with having been guilty of some line of conduct which threatens the proper functioning of this Parliament is an outrage in itself. I wish to place on record- 
If the honourable member who raised that point of order had listened to me he would have heard me say that I was referring particularly to the honourable member for Wills. I want to place on record in this House that the record of personal service to this country rendered by the honourable and gallant member for Darling Downs in peace and war, may be equalled by many but is surpassed by very few who have ever sat in this place. The bridge of that service goes from his own electorate of Darling Downs to a place called the bridge over the River Kwai. I ask the honourable member for Wills to remember this and to withdraw and apologise for that very wicked attack upon the integrity and the career of the honourable member for Darling Downs. 
With great respect to the honourable member Hunter  (Mr James),  we have all agreed to speak for only 5 minutes. 1 know that as one gets older life gets more difficult. I want to say only one or two things about this matter largely as a result of some of the comments that have been made by my friends and colleagues on the other side of the House. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  suggested that we should nationalise all the television stations in order to be able to control absolutely and utterly advertising in relation to smoking and presumably other commodities that are produced in this country and provided for those free citizens of this country who may wish, on their own judgment, to buy them. We, as a free enterprise Government, are completely opposed to the nationalisation of great media facilities of this description. I should have thought that the honourable member for Wills would have been aware of that, but that is a clear indication of the line of thought that characterises socialists. 
From time to time even governments become involved with effective advertising, and 1 believe that this is a classic illustration of that fact. I listened to my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  talk about heart disease. My friend, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  also referred to it. I have noticed it has been said that heart disease is the greatest single killer within Australia. But nobody has told me about the ages of those people who die from cardiovascular degeneration. The inference is that if nobody in Australia smoked, cardiovascular degeneration would be substantially reduced. I want to make it clear to my honourable and gallant friend, the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  who is sitting at the table, that I have never heard such utter bunkum in all my life. I have every reason to believe that cardiovascular degeneration is associated with the number of years that one has lived on the earth. The claim that it is due to the fact that one has been smoking cigarettes is, to my mind, unexplained, unproved and without relationship to what scientists call established fact. 
Turning to the question of the content of advertising which is covered in this Bill, I have noted that, with a certain subtlety, those who advise the Government have managed to arrange for warnings to be given on short advertising notices, which makes it substantially apparent to any person at all who has been connected with this type of industry in Australia that there will be no value in tobacco companies advertising on television. Obviously it is quite hypocritical to suggest to people that they should recommend a particular commodity and in the next 5 seconds destroy the integrity of their recommendation. I have been interested and fascinated with these histrionics, as I regard them, because I hold the view that there is no established scientific evidence on this earth to substantiate the validity of the Minister's comment: 
The relationship of cigarette smoking with pulmonary and cardiovascular disease, including lung cancer, heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, is accepted beyond doubt by major international and Australian medical organisations including the World Health Organisation and the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
With certain variations 1 should like to reread that statement thus: 
The relationship between the drinking of water with pulmonary and cardiovascular disease, including lung cancer, heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, is accepted beyond doubt by major international and Australian medical organisations, including the World Health Organisation and the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
I believe I can stand here and say that it is established beyond all reasonable doubt that all people who suffer from these misfortunes of health drink water. I want to make it quite clear that there is a definite scientific relationship between what I have said, which is of approximately the same measure of scientific integrity, and that comment of the Minister. This is the point I wish to make. In the electorate of North Sydney I have no abundance of tobacco growers. I have no abundance of tobacco manufacturers or producers. 
I can regard that interjection only as a compliment to my recent diet. While it is perfectly true that the Australian Government has been reacting as governments throughout the world have been reacting to a series of pressures, fascinating as those pressures are they represent what might be called a hysterical reaction to circumstances that are almost beyond belief. I find myself in this critical position: Of Scottish extraction I am unencumbered by those problems that do make great issues for later migrants for this country. My family has for more than 300 years been watching the English and honourable members know that if one watches the English for a long period of time one becomes supple in these appreciations. I make it clear that I take the view that this issue should not have been introduced to the Parliament until such time as there is, beyond all reasonable doubt, established evidence that can be put before the House. I will accept it only when the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  rises in the other place and says, on the integrity and the professional capacity of a man equivalent to General Refshauge, 'These are the facts of life' and this, so far, has not been done. 
I should like to make a very brief reference to this matter. My colleague and friend, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  has referred to the Public Accounts Committee in relation to this matter. All I wish to say - and it is relevant insofar as you,  Mr Speaker,  have permitted the honourable member for Wills to make this comment - is that in the days of the Labor government there was no Public Accounts Committee because in those circumstances the due judgment of the right honourable member for Macquarie at that time was that this Parliament would be better off without a public accounts committee. I find it to be an extraordinary political comment on the part of the honourable member for Wills who, with great continuity and great fervour- 
I would like to support everything that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has said. I merely bring to your attention,  Sir, that  the reference to the Public Accounts Committee was not only unfortunate but also, with great respect, irrelevant. 
I always listen with great interest to what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has to say on these matters. I am conscious of the fact that he has taken a great deal of interest in the techniques that are adopted in the running of the House of Representatives. I know that he is a member of the Standing Orders Committee, and I am appreciative of the histrionics that from time to time emerge when these criticisms of the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  are brought up towards the end of a session. I want to say to the honourable member for Corio that I have been privileged to be in the House of Commons and to listen to members of that House complaining about restrictions upon the way in which they are able to conduct their affairs and their business in the House. 
I have been with an Australian parliamentary mission into the Parliament of the Federation of Canada and I have listened to a much bigger House than this going through all these criticisms and complaints. I know full well that they have on many occasions in recent years sat till all hours of the morning and we, on the occasion when we visited them, found them extremely tired because for the  2  previous nights they had been sitting till the early hours of the morning. In the light of these circumstances I feel that it should be placed on the record that the statement made by the honourable member for Corio that this is a chamber in which there are restrictions unparalleled throughout the world upon the functions of private members, ought to be at least questioned. Frankly, I regard it as a statement which is unsubstantiated, and I believe that the facilities available to members of the Australian House of Representatives will compare favourably with those in the Houses to which I have referred, namely, the House of Commons in London and the House of Commons in Ottawa. 
When I made reference to  Mr Speaker  Rosevear, I was referring, of course, to a distinguished former  Speaker  of the House of Representatives who was in the chair of this House at the time when the last Labor Government was in power. I repeat that anybody who is familiar with history will know that  Mr Speaker  Rosevear, who enjoyed the respect of the House, certainly did not encourage members to interfere with those affairs which he regarded as his prerogative. What is more, if honourable members studied the Hansard records, they would see that from time to time complaints were made by members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party who were sitting on the other side of the chamber about what might be regarded as difficult decisions made by  Mr Speaker  Rosevear without their being consulted. In the light of this history, I believe that the honourable member for Corio should be told that the efforts made in this House by  Mr Speaker,  the Leader of the House and the  Deputy  Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  those responsible for the functioning of the House are fair and reasonable and, in the light of all the circumstances, should be accepted by honourable members. 
I take the view that a majority of people believe that when this session comes to a conclusion it should come to a peaceful conclusion and that those who must go about their business outside Canberra ought to be able to do so without agrimony debate and without any unfortunate signs of temper. For this reason, I felt that I had to place this point of view on the record to counter what was said by the honourable member for Corio as, undoubtedly, his comments would be used during the election campaign. 
As  Chairman  I present the one hundred and thirty-fifth, one hundred and thirty-sixth and one hundred and thirty-seventh reports of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has he received a telegram from the  President  of Actors Equity Association of Australia protesting about the banning of the Australian Broadcasting Commission television series entitled 'Our Man in Canberra' and alleging that this was as a result of political censorship? 
ls the Prime Minister aware of the recent claim that the Commonwealth Public Service is leading the salary spiral? If this is so, has this matter been looked into and could he advise whether the claim is valid? Is the Prime Minister able to give the House any information on this subject? 
Has the Minister for the Navy information for the House about widely publicised criticisms of him within his electorate in Sydney to the effect that he is abusing his authority in relation to staff employed by his Department so as to enlist their assistance for his constituents with their personal problems. 
1  have listened with a great deal of interest in this debate to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  to the members of the shadow Cabinet of the Australian Labor Party who have spoken and I have tried to follow their reasoning to enable me to understand the reason for the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I believe that I have finally been able to understand the thought processes which they followed and I should like to discuss just some of them this afternoon. We heard the honourable member' for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  asking the other day for honourable members not to read speeches in this House. This is my first essay into that suggested technique, and not being trained as a lawyer I regret to say that my efforts will probably be rather disjointed. ' 
In the first place I compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the . Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentwoth)  upon the Budget. I repeat for the benefit of those who are listening to me that aspect of the Budget which I find to be very attractive indeed. Whilst I completely support everything that has been said about the various sections of the Budget, I make particular reference to the sections which deal with health. I am very pleased that the Government has reviewed the arrangements for assisting people requiring nursing home care. The proposal to introduce new integrated measures to help not only chronically ill patients in nursing homes, but also to assist aged infirm people who can be looked after in a home environment will meet the support of all those Australians who have detected within our prosperous community a tendency for families to avoid their responsibilities to their elderly people. We shall introduce a nursing home insurance benefit for. contributors to hospital insurance organisations. Pensioners who have pensioner medical service entitlement cards will also receive this benefit as additional assistance without having to join a hospital fund. 
When added to the existing Commonwealth benefits of $24.50 a week for ordinary care patients and $45.50 a week  for  intensive care patients, these new benefits will give nursing home patients greater financial protection against the cost of fees. The amount of the new benefit will vary as between the States. When the new Bill comes before the Parliament, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will announce the precise details. 
The Treasurer went on to say in bis Budget Speech: 
To reduce the demand for nursing home treatment a new domiciliary care benefit will be payable to a person who, in his own home, accepts responsibility for the provision, on a regular and continuing basis, of professional nursing care and supporting services required by an aged relative. The benefit will be available on the basis of medical need in accordance with requirements determined by the Department of Health and will be paid at the rate of $14 a week. As in the case of nursing home benefits, it will not be subject to a means test. 
I believe that this is a remarkable and very valuable step forward in the concepts which have been introduced by this Government over recent years and it will have a profound effect upon the environment of the average family in our community. I think that this is a vital thing. 1 am sure that many elderly people in the community who look forward with great concern to their ageing years and who pray and hope that they will not be beset by ill health, will be supported in the knowledge that there is to be an increase in financial aid to them from the Commonwealth Government as expressed in this Budget. 
Having referred to that particular section of the Budget I turn now to the proposals that have been put before us by the Leader of the Opposition, a Queen's Counsel and a distinguished member of the legal profession. I have considered this Budget in the terms of the authority of the House of Representatives as expressed in the Australian Constitution, a copy of which 1 have with me, and also as expressed in the terms of the platform of the Australian Labor Party in a document produced in June 1972. It has a black cover on which is yellow lettering. Inside the cover is a picture of the handsome leader of the Australian Labor Party. The book contains details of the Labor Party's platform and the interpretation that the Labor Party has of various sections of the Constitution. The Leader of the Opposition is trained in the law and in the Constitution. He is conscious of the jurisdiction of the sovereign states and of the limitations of our Constitution which has been amended on only very few occasions. On many occasions the people of Australia, I remind honourable members, have refused to amend the Constitution. The Leader of the Opposition finds himself in the position where with his Labor colleagues he is able to say at page 25 of Labor's book, in the section 'Industrial Relations', under the heading 'The Constitution': 
The Commonwealth's power to deal with industrial matters derives from the Constitution 70 years old. 
In this part of my speech 1 am referring to the criticisms of the Constitution because this is the important clue to the way in which the members of the Opposition think and is also the clue to the explanation for the extraordinary speeches they make about problems of government which are not properly the responsibility of this House but are properly the responsibility of the sovereign State governments in the capital cities of Australia. In referring to the Constitution as being 70 years old, Labor seems to regard it in a derogatory way. Labor's platform goes on:  lt is no longer adequate. It was found by committees which examined the Constitution in 1929 and again in 1959 to be inadequate and to have led to excessive technicality and complexity. To allow it to remain in its present form is like expecting to control modern motor traffic with laws taken from horse and buggy days. 
Labor then proceeds to argue from that base in sections of its platform that envisage a completely unified control within Australia. Labor refers to matters as though, if it were in office, it would be in complete command and have complete authority over the whole of Australia, its way of life, its economy, education, transport and so on. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition states: 
The House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia . . . 
I would have thought that the Premier of South Australia feels that he is mainly responsible for the definition of adequate economic and social goals for the people living in South Australia. I have some reason to believe that that also applies to Western Australia where there is a Labor Premier. I was reinforced in this view recently when I noted that those States made a statement upon immigration which has long been accepted as a Commonwealth function. Both  Mr Dunstan,  Premier of South Australia, and  Mr Tonkin,  Premier of Western Australia, have made statements indicating that their State governments would be prepared to receive migrants from overseas who might not be able to meet the standards for migrants laid down by the Commonwealth. This is an interesting exercise. 
I understand that Uganda was the country involved. It demonstrates the flexibility of the Labor Party mind. It works this way: When you are in the States you can abuse the Constitution and ignore the Commonwealth's power. When you are in the Commonwealth you ignore the States and talk as though you are in fact monarch of all you survey. It is the most extraordinary mental flexibility I have ever witnessed. I cannot help feeling that if there is one man to whom one should look for a certain degree of intellectual integrity in the process of argument it is the Leader of the Opposition, that distinguished member of that most distinguished profession, the law. He want on in his amendment:  and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs, the prices of goods and land . . . 
He does not refer at all to the effect of the influence of the sovereign State governments or of the Conciliation and Aribtration Commission upon these very important matters. He went on in the most trenchant way to be highly critical of the Government for a 2 per cent level of unemployment in the Australian economy in 1972 at a time when unemployment in the United States is of the order of 5 per cent and in Canada, a country to which he is prone to turn with such adoration and respect, it is almost 6 per cent. In the United Kingdom unemployment is almost 4 per cent. Nevertheless, in these circumstances he feels that the Commonwealth must be berated because unemployment has risen to about 2 per cent in 1972, for the first time over a long period. 
Then to confuse us even more the Leader of the Opposition has the gall to suggest that we should revalue our currency because, if we did so, apparently we would be able to deflate our economy.  I  would have thought that the most juvenile of people interested in these political and economic matters would understand that revaluation of our currency would lead to increased imports into Australia and pressure upon the existing industrial structure. This would lead to increased unemployment so that in fact such a move would tend to make things harder for people in our rural industries who are trying to establish markets overseas and to secure the best prices available. The people working in secondary industries would suffer similarly. 
If there were a conflict in the Labor proposals I would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition, that distinguished lawyer, would have at least been bound to try to explain some of the facts of life to those people who sit beside him. He has anxiety about employment and he proposes through various processes to increase unemployment. He has anxiety about inflation; yet his shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  has been heard in this House not once but on a number of occasions to say that he prefers inflation and full employment to having deflation and unemployment. It is really making a mockery of this Parliament to have honourable members opposite talking the way they do about the 35-hour working week. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is a distinguished and senior member of one of the great trade unions. He has risen here and said: 'I find it necessary to say to you that you improve productivity only by technological advances and wiser employment of resources, not by working longer hours.' Even a child in a kindergarten knows that he can assemble more blocks in half and hour than his playmate can assemble in 10 minutes. Honourable members opposite should find the courage to go overseas, to visit the beehives that we call Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. There they can observe people who are creating enormous economic power throughout Asia on a basis such as never would have been compared 10, 15 or 20 years ago with the basis in this country. They would come to realise that Japan at the turn of the century will be one of the great economic powers on this earth. 
No doubt South Korea and Taiwan will in their own particular way be very close behind. 
People in Australia who can see the merit in talking about more and more leisure should ponder whether we are going to produce a whole nation of people who are more interested in leisure than they are in national productivity, because if this feeling does develop, may the Lord have mercy upon us all in due course. If that is, the case, the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues have played their part in the development of this very sad malaise which is an ultimate and a great deceit upon the Australian people. Contrasted with others who live on this earth, there are some 37 hundred million people whose mouths are opening and shutting at this very minute. Let it be said with great truth that those who work and those who achieve are most likely to survive. 
I learned with great interest only last weekend, following one of those wonderful records of fact dealing with current affairs problems, in which I understand there is no such thing as bias or misrepresentation and no such thing as the employment of members of Actors' Equity to masquerade as soldiers of the Queen - there is no such thing as this at all unless one is unfortunate enough to have discovered the facts of life from a study of the Commonwealth Budget - that there are firms in the city of Sydney which work 4 nine-hour days for a 36-hour week. Some of the young gentlemen who were interviewed by the distinguished members of the television media, good looking as they always are, said that they had other business to go to on their days off. 
Nevertheless, the fact remains that the statement was made. One cannot help wondering whether or not tax is paid on all the income that comes from all that business endeavour. That being the case, and looking at the cost problem that faces Australia, particularly if a Labor government revalues the currency, I feel that we should make every effort to understand the facts of the argument and to understand our constitutional power. 
It must be realised that, for example, the Premiers of South Australia and Western Australia, outside this chamber, are not seeking to endorse what the honourable member for Newcastle says about railway debts and transport systems. I venture to say to the honourable gentleman, distinguished as he is and knowledgeable in trade union matters as he is, that were he Premier of New South Wales, he certainly would not be saying the same thing. He has a copious cheek, and I think he has his tongue in it. The references that the honourable member for Newcastle made to there being plently of precedent in other countries is in itself of very doubtful intellectual integrity. There are few other countries that rival Australia for being stifled by a conflict of sovereign powers. The powers of the Commonwealth Government in Ottawa and the governments in Washington and London are legal powers different from those powers that are exercised by the Commonwealth Government in Australia. I ask honourable members to bear these facts in mind and to vote against this absurd amendment which 1 can describe only as being one that is lamentable because it is bereft of any intellectual integrity. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who represents the AttorneyGeneral in this place, aware of any new information that would lead to the conclusion that the movement known as Scientology is now considered fit to be recognised, for example under the Marriage Act, as a registerable body? 
Has the Treasurer taken recent action to end the use of Norfolk Island as what is known as a tax haven? Why was this done? Does this action apply to foreign and Australian companies? 
I oppose the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  I do so not only because I am a supporter of the Government but also because I am familiar with the reasons why he has moved the amendment. We all are delighted to see the changes that were made earlier this week in air traffic control procedures at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. These changes in traffic control procedures should reduce aircraft noise for residents living in the Cronulla, Caringbah, and Kurnell areas. The changes in preferred noise abatement take-off procedures for aircraft departing south across Botany Bay will come into force with the commissioning of a new airways operations centre at Sydney airport on 16th September. This building will cost $4m to $5m and it is part of a radar complex which will involve altogether an expenditure of $20m. Under the new preferred take-off procedure, aircraft will climb a direct line across Botany Bay to a height of only 500 feet. Using a precise tracking aid the aircraft will turn towards the Kurnell sand hills, cross the coast and continue towards the sea for 8 nautical miles from the airport before turning right to link up with the southerly air routes. 
The people who live in that area will recognise that this has been a substantial success for the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  who, over a long period of time, has taken a very close personal interest in this matter. I do not suggest for one moment that the honourable member for Cook is the only member of this Parliament who has devoted time and effort to this problem. I do suggest, however, that he has a lot to be proud of in the achievements that have been made. Nevertheless, although the honourable member for St George talks about this noise problem as though it was a major political issue, the fact remains that he has yet to tell this Committee about the continual approval by the local government bodies in and around his electorate and neighbouring electorates of valuable projects to be carried out directly under flight paths. If there was one manifestation of a political reaction which would support the warmth and the dramatic intensity of the honourable member for St George it would be that one would see local government bodies refusing to approve the projects that, as the honourable member well knows, have been approved over recent years. 
The comment from the honourable member for St George is a most interesting one. When I was the member for St George they were anything but Liberal Party councils. This commercial problem has to be faced by local government authorities. In my judgment, they are prone to make their decisions in the interests of their own areas rather than on political grounds. I feel that the overall problem of noise abatement, which has been looked at very seriously by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, is a problem that is being solved gradually, consistent with the economic requirements of the development of a viable civil aviation industry. The Australian representatives on ICAO have been largely instrumental in developing an international outlook on this noise abatement problem. It is fair to say that costs of remedying these matters have to be related to the viability of the industry itself. I doubt very much whether any government in Australia would be likely to take those actions that would render the whole of the civil aviation industry uneconomic. If that were to occur we would simply find ourselves in the position of not being able to sustain a developing civil aviation industry. 
There are many competing factors to be considered. While I appreciate that noise abatement is a very real problem, the fact remains that even today around the great airports like Tullamarine people still are purchasing houses and property, and they will go on doing so when the Government decides to put its new Sydney airport at Somersby, which, I am confident, is where it will be built. Political problems have resulted from previous recommendations as to the site, but I have no doubt that Somersby will be the position chosen ultimately because the whole of the area from Wollongong to Newcastle by the turn of the century - by 2000 A.D. - will be a highly developed area in which will reside and work  6  million to 7 million people. It is necessary that the civil aviation industry be centred upon the greatest population centres in our country. These are Sydney and Melbourne, and inevitably these will be the areas in which the tremendous expenditures of the future will be made. For that reason, I feel that this proposed expenditure by the Department of Civil Aviation ought not to be reduced by $10. I feel that this Committee ought to oppose strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for St George and that the Committee ought to reflect upon the exceptionally fine contribution that has been rendered in this field by the honourable member for Cook. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service the latest statistics on employment levels? Will he confirm for the benefit of the House that Australia and the work force in this country are functioning in an environment more favourable than that elsewhere in comparative economies? 
Has the Minister for Defence any information for this House relating to the Government's policy to continue to review and improve the conditions of service in the armed forces? Does the Minister regard recent criticisms - from the national secretary of the Returned Services League, in particular - as reasonable and justifiable? 
As  Chairman  I present the One Hundred and Thirty-eighth and One Hundred and Thirty-ninth Reports of the Public Accounts Committee. I see leave to make  a  short statement. 
 I present the 140th report of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
by leave - As honourable members will know, the Committee has, for many years, conducted combined inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer and expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, but has tabled separate reports on both aspects of these inquiries. The One Hundred and Fortieth Report relates specifically to evidence taken by the Committee in connection with expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1971-72. 
The One Hundred and Fortieth Report differs from all previous reports tabled by the Public Accounts Committee, inasmuch as the public inquiry from which it arose was conducted for the first time by 2 sectional committees rather than by the Committee as a whole itself. In this regard I should mention that, early this year, the Committee took a series of important, related initiatives connected with its future development and designed to improve its effectiveness. To facilitate the operation of an improved programme, the Committee decided that it would operate in 2 standing sectional or sub-committees of 5 members each for the purpose of taking evidence. As honourable members will be aware, provision is contained in section 9 of the Public Accounts Committee Act for the appointment of sectional committees to inquire into and report to the Committee on matters with which it is concerned. This new arrangement, which has proved to be very successful from the Committee's viewpoint, came into operation as planned on 15th August 1972 when the Committee commenced its annual examination of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer and the Consolidated Revenue Fund, for the financial year 1971-72. 
In Chapter 1 of the report the Committee has stated that, in examining expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, it has sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advance has been confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional estimates. The Committee has also sought to ascertain whether or not the departments concerned in the inquiry have maintained efficient administration in the expenditure of funds under the items selected for public inquiry. As the report shows, there were cases where expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the appropriation legislation. In other cases, however, there is evidence of clerical errors, failure to establish adequately based administrative arrangements, and lack of adequate communication between central and regional offices of departments and between branches of the central office of the same department. These defects result in either poor standards of estimating or inadequate expenditure performances. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have been discovered. 
As in several previous inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the 
Treasurer, the Committee has found further evidence of charges having been made to the Advance without warrant authority, in contravention of sub-regulation 1 of Treasury Regulation 90. These charges usually arise from clerical or administrative errors. In recent years, the Committee has had cause to comment adversely on the quality of written submissions and oral evidence tendered by departments. In this regard the Committee is pleased to note a considerable general improvement in the quality of evidence tendered during the present inquiry. At the same time, however, some evidence tendered by a department was factually imprecise and, but for a correction subsequently tendered by an observer, could have misled the Committee into unjustified criticism of the department. Imprecisions of the nature to which I have referred highlight the need for departments to exercise great care in the presentation of documentary and oral evidence. I commend the report to honourable members. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to begin by complimenting you upon your elevation to the high and august position that you occupy. Over the long period of time that I have been privileged to know you in this House I have come to appreciate your ability to interject in debate, from time to time, to relieve the atmosphere and to make people feel that their significance is perhaps less than they might be demonstrating. I feel that in the years to come we will have ample opportunity to see you in the chair giving us an illustration, as you did this afternoon, of your ability to put people in their places. 
I would also like to extend my compliments to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who is  Mr Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. During the years in which the honourable member for Corio has been here since he took the place of our great friend,  Sir Hubert  Opperman, he has been a popular and highly respected member of the House. Both you,  Sir, and  the honourable member for Corio were elected to the offices you now occupy in this Parliament without opposition by the Opposition parties, and it is reasonable to point out that this is a compliment to you. As is our custom at the beginning of a new Parliament, I would also like to compliment the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who have prepared the Address-in-Reply and those other gentlemen who have made their maiden speeches in this debate which has provided their first opportunity to speak in the House of Representatives of Australia. Those honourable members are in Parliament for the first time. 1 listened with a great deal of interest to the Speech that was made by the GovernorGeneral on behalf of the new Australian Government. It is an interesting experience to speak for the first time since 1949 from the Opposition benches, lt is only when one looks at such robust and earnest gentlemen as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and others on this side and across the other side of the House at my friend, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  that one realises that from time to time we may have a robust exchange of opinions. I have no doubt that they will be of great interest. 
The 23 years during which the coalition Liberal-Country Party Government led Australia were without parallel in the history of development of this nation. From 1949 to 1972, this country became known internationally as the lucky country and, although from time to time there may have been the odd blemish and the room for improvement which can always be found in every environment and in every economy, I am quite sure that my friends and colleagues on both sides of the House will agree with me that Australia knew great development and prosperity in those years. Some interesting international changes have taken place to which we should direct our attention as they relate to the change of government in Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated with great clarity that changes towards a new foreign policy have been a direct result of his personal interpretations and his Party's understanding of those international changes. It is interesting to note that the policy of the Australian Labor Party appears to have been consistent with the changes in policy that have emerged from the United States of America. There is no doubt that, in the speeches that were made in this House on foreign affairs - at least after 1964 and 1965  -  there was a thread of appeal for the People's Republic of China to be recognised as something other than that country which had attacked, for example, Tibet and been guilty of genocide some 20- odd years ago. 
That the present Australian Prime Minister made overtures to go to the People's Republic of China cannot be denied. When arrangements were made for the  President  of the United States to visit the People's Republic of China, it looked as though the then Leader of the Opposition in Canberra had been looking into a crystal ball and making assessments which would prove remarkable in their future application. What was the real reason for the American decision to seek a closer relationship with the People's Republic of China? lt is interesting to wonder whether, if the People's Republic of China had not proceeded to establish its own nuclear capacity and if, for example, from the period of Premier Khrushchev  onwards  there had not been a deterioration in relations between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People's Republic of China, the present situation would have existed at all. 
The countries in our region which are most vitally concerned with the relations between the People's Republic  of  China and the USSR are, of course, Japan and, unquestionably, Taiwan and India and Pakistan. Australia, being so far away, has watched the deterioration in relations between the USSR and the People's Republic of China and wondered whether this deterioration was an indication that nuclear war would take place in due course. This is a matter of great concern to the people of the United States of America and their  President  must know that, in the event of hostilities breaking out between countries which are capable of using nuclear weapons, the dangers of nuclear war are increased enormously. Therefore, it seems to me quite logical that, once the  President  of the United States felt that relations between Peking and Moscow were so bad and that the Government in Peking wanted to seek what is called the normalisation of relations with the United States in order to return to the family of nations throughout the world, he should encourage the Government in Peking to do so. I think that was the decision which was made and which has led to the remarkable change that has taken place in the last 12 months. It can be observed and must be admitted that the People's Republic of China is moving towards normal relations with more countries at a greater rate than would have been deemed possible 10 or even 5 years ago. 
However, it is vital for us to remember that, at present, relations between the USSR and the People's Republic of China remain very sensitive. Large forces confront each other on the borders between the 2 countries. The Japanese, of course, who would be vitally concerned in any war between the USSR and the People's Republic of China, have done all that they can to normalise their relations with the Government in Peking in order to establish, if possible, a measure of influence and understanding with that Government in the hope that peace will be maintained in our region. This leaves Taiwan - the Republic of China - to be considered. One wonders whether the wisdom of the ages, which one hopes will prevail in Peking, will lead to a situation where Taiwan will be ignored in terms of military considerations and the future government in Peking will forget the famous quotation from Mao's little red book that politics grow out of the barrel of a gun. 
All these matters to which I have referred have a significant relationship to the policies of the new Australian Government. Those policies appear to have been under some pressure from some people - at least within the Australian Labor Party - who over recent days have sought to create a problem between the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and the Secretary of that Department. This is a line of conduct which I would describe as being not in the interests of Australia. The very distinguished Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, is well known internationally. He is known within this country as a former head of the Department of External Affairs, now called the Department of Foreign Affairs, and he is one of our top and most experienced men. It would be a monumental tragedy if, for parry political reasons, there were any great conflict between the Minister, who carries on his shoulders the problems of the defence of Australia, and the head of his Department. From my own point of view, if there has to be a Labor government in power, I would prefer to see in charge of our defence a man who has flown the Fill and had served at the battle of El Alamein rather than someone less conspicuous. 
During the last few minutes of my speech, I should like to refer to another matter which was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech and which concerns me greatly. It relates to Papua New Guinea. I quote from the Governor-General's Speech as follows: 
My Government will move with all due speed towards the creation of an independent, united Papua New Guinea. It proposes to achieve this in thi closest consultation with the Government and House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea within the life of this Parliament. 
I have had some experience of Papua New Guinea myself. I have been somewhat troubled in recent years when the Leader of the Opposition - now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - made it clear that he believed it to be of vital importance to the welfare of Australia that Papua New Guinea should become an independent country as quickly as possible. I am, however, taking heart from the comment in the Governor-General's speech that it should be a united country. I believe that the Prime Minister will realise that there is no great benefit for Australia if we create an independent Papua New Guinea and watch within 2 years a fragmentation process which will take Bougainville and perhaps areas of New Britain out of the zone of control of the Government in Port Moresby. I do not think that any sensible Australian would wish to see this occur. 
I make the appeal to the Prime Minister to put the accent upon the term 'united' as well as the term 'independent'. I believe it to be of first-class importance to Australia that our Prime Minister and our Government should be able to say: 'We are now quite convinced that Papua New Guinea, as an independent country, will remain united'. If there is any doubt about this, I believe that Australia's interests are best served by remaining, at the request of the Government in Port Moresby, closely associated with the Territory and accepting responsibility in its defence and its political development. If the independent Papua New Guinea Government has to be established during the lifetime of this Parliament, it seems to me that the decision about the date of independence should be left to  Mr Somare  and his colleagues, for they must be best placed to analyse this fragmentation problem to which I have referred. In the event of pressures developing within the Territory; in the event of the people of Bougainville seeking secession and in the event of the Tolais and the Mataungans - the people in New Britain - seeking to achieve autonomy in relation to the Government in Port Moresby, it is quite clear that Australia's great efforts, particularly over the last 20 years, will be set at nought. It must be remembered that vast sums of Australian taxpayers' money have been spent in development within Papua New Guinea. It is obvious, when one looks at that Territory, that it will continue to depend, to an enormous degree, for its development upon the generosity of the Australian people, and that generosity will, in fact, be reflected in the policies adopted by the Australian Government. 
An early reference in the GovernorGeneral's Speech related to the manifest desire of large sections of the Australian community, particularly, it was said, the youthful majority, for a more tolerant, more open, more humane, more equal and yet more diverse society. In my judgment it would be very difficult to find any society on this earth which would be more humane, more equal yet more diverse than the Australian society has been over the last SO years. The truth of the matter is, as I said in the beginning of my speech, that this country has been very fortunate. It has been protected largely from the evil effects of the Great World Wars of 1914- 18 and 1939-45. We have, under the umbrella of our powerful friends, been able to create a society which has developed at an enormous rate - a society which has been prosperous and within which the welfare of the average family is as well developed as can be found in any country on this earth. I therefore feel that if there is a desire for a more tolerant, more open, more humane, more equal and yet diverse society it should be acknowledged that we are not starting from what is, in fact, a police state or something as sinister as that. I will support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in whatever motions he may put to the House on particular aspects of this matter. 1 say to the Prime Minister and his colleagues of the Australian Labor Party that I look forward to some interesting jousts in this House from time to time in relation to some of the economic policies that they will endeavour to bring to the people of Australia. I hope that when those policies are argued out in this place and in another place we shall have ample opportunity for political expression. 
In view of the unprecedented nature of the visits on 16th March by the Commonwealth Police to Australian Security Intelligence Organisation premises will the Prime Minister assure the House that the visits of the Commonwealth Police will not be extended to other Government departments? If he is unable to give this assurance, will he disclose how and by whom such future visits will be authorised? Would the Prime Minister have prior knowledge of such visits in the future were they to take place at all? 
asked the Minister for Over seas Trade, upon notice: 
What figures are available to demonstrate a comparison of Australian Trade with the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China in Taiwan. 
What comparative figures are available with respect to Indonesia. Malaysia. Singapore and India. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he means of assessing the impact of the recent re-valuations of the Australian currency upon the economic viability of companies manufacturing goods for export. 
If so, how will the costs of these companies be affected if they have to cease exporting. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon  notice: 
How many sightings were made in Australian, New Zealand or Oceanian waters of unidentified submariies during 1972. 
Is it the intention of the Government to make public such information as may be available from time to time. 
As the Prime Minister has agreed that he is not happy with his practice of spelling out policies to Press conferences rather than to the Parliament, will he tell the House why he continues this practice? Does he feel the lure of television cameras too much of a temptation to address a much bigger audience? Does he realise that his answers to the pressmen before television cameras appear to be factual and courteous, whereas in this House his answers to questions asked by honourable members are sometimes derisive and sometimes, we regret to say, in our opinion, fail to give the facts? If the proceedings of the House of Representatives were televised does he hope that he then would be able to answer the questions of honourable members in a forthright manner? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many citizens are (a) men aged 65 years and over and(b) women aged 60 years and over. 
What percentage of existing Social Service pensioners are &amp; receipt of the fringe benefits and concessions. 
If the Means Test was abolished, what would be the cost of givingall eligible people these fringe benefits and concessions. 
What is the latest figure available on the cost to the revenue of Means Test abolition in respect of Social Service pensions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say what were the increases in public transport charges in Sydney during the financial years 1970-71 and 1971-72, and during the 9 months period ended 31 March 1973. 
Are any details available to his Department of increases in freight charges on the New South Wales Government Railways during the same periods: 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What are the details of increases in hospital and medical charges for patients during the financial years 1969-70, 1970-71, and 1971-72, and during the 9 months period ended 31 March 1973. 
<para pgwide="yes">MrHayden -  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The following changes have occurred in public hospital daily charges during the financial years 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-72, and during the 9 months to 31 March 1973. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 523 (Hansard, 22 May 1973, page 2470), what percentage of the 454,800 men, aged 65 years and over, are in receipt of social service pensions. 
What percentage of the 888,700 women, aged 60 years and over, are in receipt of social service pensions. 
How many invalids are there in Australia, and how many of these people are in receipt of age or invalid pensions. 
What is the cost of all fringe benefits paid to social service pensioners as at 30 April 1973. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say on 12 April that the estimated cost of concessions to shareholders under Sections 77A, 77D, 77C, and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in respect of the contribution of share capital to petroleum exploration and petroleum mining companies was $ 1 1 Om for the period 1 958 to 1 97 1 . 
If so, does this sum include concessions to search operations in Papua New Guinea. 
How much of the sum assisted (a) Australian and (b) international companies. 
Can he say whether tax concessions are granted by the United States Government to American companies spending money in exploration programs within Australia. 
I address my question to the Minister for Services and Property in his role as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. Could the Minister confirm or refute that the divisional returning officer for the electorate of Parramatta was ordered to vacate his offices in the Parramatta Town Hall by the Labor-controlled Parramatta City Council within 48 hours of the announcement of the Parramatta by-election and that these offices have now been handed over to the Australian Labor Party for use as campaign rooms? 
 I  rise this afternoon to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  last night to the motion that the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-1974 be read a second time. The amendment reads as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House expresses disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible in that: 
with inflationary pressures intense it fails to adopt any policy to bring inflation under control; 
with resources already under strain it applies wrong economic principles by overloading resources further by expansionary public sector spending; 
it permits the tax burden to accelerate to an unprecedented level; 
it is a further step in the attack on the federal system of government by Labor which aims to centralise all decisions in Canberra; 
it jeopardises the future growth of living standard and economic development of the nation; 
it unfairly discriminates against the rural community and discourages decentralisation; 
it does not provide a framework of social equity; and 
it fails to honour election promises.' 
In terms of that amendment, with reference to some of the statements made by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn),  who has just resumed his seat, it is clear that he and his colleagues in the Australian Labor Party support the general plan to centralise decisions in Canberra and to develop the new society which is fundamental in the context of the Labor Party's policy speech before the 1972 federal elections. 
While my colleagues have referred in particular to the economic problems that face the nation, I think it is wise at this stage to remind the House of the new society and the new structure of life in Australia that are beginning to emerge from any study of the plans of the Australian Labor Party. These are the plans for the new society: There will be established in this country a republic. There will be a movement away from the monarchical system and, in due course, if the Labor Party has its way, there will be a  president  of Australia. I have a feeling that that  president  will probably not come from the Senate. I think there is reason to anticipate at this stage that he will have been a member of the House of Representatives. Under the presidential system the Labor Party would hope to proceed with its plans for the establishment of the socialist state to which they are all so wedded. Time and time again over the years that I have been in this place I have heard these references to Australia as a land in which from the cradle to the grave all of its citizens will be well looked after, cared for by an omnipotent government that will always make correct decisions and that can always be relied upon to rob the rich to give to those who are its supporters, ostensibly to develop Australia. 
One of the methods the Government quite obviously is following in this pursuit is to inflate the Australian economy quite deliberately. An educated man like the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  knows that as day follows night a situation will emerge in this country that will require strong fiscal action and  strong  economic policy to cope with the result of inflation and at that time the Government's plan is to go to the Australian people and say: 'We now seek overall control of the economy. Give us complete legal control over wages, prices, dividends and income of all description and we shall control the economy'. The Government will then have taken the major step towards the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange that is so vital to it. This is the picture that is emerging of the future of Australia. 
As I said last year, there has been a genuflecting to oriental potentates around the world in the hope that they will emerge as the friends of the new social regime in the southern seas and that these people in Peking, Moscow and other places will not seek to pursue those plans that emerge from time to time in history and which gave us such fascinating vignettes of history like the genocide in Tibet, which called forth not one critical comment from the members of the Labor Party during that terrible period. It called for no comment because it was a manifestation of the type of decision that would be made in Peking, and therefore there was no likelihood of there being any criticism. The Australian Labor Party has taken this country from its previous foreign affairs stance and moved it so that in the last 6 months we have offered public insult to the United Kingdom, offered public insult to our regional friends in Malaysia, where so many Australians laid down their lives during the Second World War, and we have done it also in the United States of America to make it clear that we will not be subject to any criticism from other people around the world who are known commonly as those who threaten the peace and who have publicly announced that they will establish some great international socialist state if they possibly can. 
These are the plans that emerge from a study of this Budget. It will have been noticed that our defence forces are being so reduced that there is no likelihood that any intelligent person will be able to look at our defence forces and regard our foreign policy as significant because it might be backed by some credible force to represent an Australian effort of support for some friend who was in need. Although this has been done deliberately, and at a time when defence expenditure has been reduced in order to provide vast social services that will further inflate the economy, it has managed to dovetail into the aims of the foreign policy change of posture. This is a very vital matter because, as I have said, the new society that the Australian Labor Party is seeking to establish in Australia will be without doubt a society entirely different from anything that we have known in the past or anything that we have regarded over the last 50 years as resembling the type of country in which we live and in which we believe. Having said that, I have no doubt that I will be challenged, but I am sure that the day will come when the clear result of Labor Party policy will be announced in this House and it will be expressed in the form of a changing of the flag, a changing of the national anthem, an alteration of the things we have stood for over such a long period of time and the presentation of a new socialist outlook to the world. Anything more ghastly I could hardly imagine. 
The Treasurer, having made so many critical statements in the past about economic responsibility, began his speech with a number of interesting comparisons. He said this: 
In Australia .today we are much better at selling cars than providing decent public transport services; much better at building houses than providing sewerage services for them. 
I do not know whether this is meant to be a manifestation of an intelligent economic objective, but in reading those sentences I thought that I might ponder their meaning because surely if the Treasurer believes that we ought to be establishing public transport services at public expense he could differentiate between a policy designed to do this and the effect within the economy on thousands of Australians working in the automotive industry building motor cars which are being provided for the Australian people. To me it seems a complete non-sequitur, a complete absurdity, to suggest that we ought to cut down on the automotive industry, reduce the production of motor cars and presumably get on with the job of providing more public transport services. There is something slightly lunatic about that comparison. The Treasurer said that we are better at building houses than at providing sewerage services. I ponder the comparison and frankly find tha* many people looking at complaints about the houses that are needed for people to live in would be quite prepared to live in a house rather than in a tent and whether the public services provided by local authorities were available to them would be of less significance to them than having a roof over their heads. 
I cannot help believing that, when the Treasurer says that plans for the development of society will be improved by pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into an already inflated economy, he is deliberately ignoring what all of his professional training must tell him - that is, if the rate of inflation goes beyond the present figure of 13 per cent to an annual figure of 20 per cent to 25 pei cent he will finish up with an economic position which will demand a return to the type of Budget which we had to face up to in this House in 1951. There can be no doubt that although this would become a ghastly situation in the economy and although the dose of medicine would be very intense, it would be absolutely vital to the welfare of the economy that the medicine be taken. There is no way in which honest people can avoid these decisions and conclusions. 
As I said earlier, one has to look beyond the deliberate inflation of the Australian economy and ask oneself: 'What is it that these people are trying to achieve? What on earth can it be that motivates people to talk about changing the country's flag and the national anthem?' After all, we have known for many years that our national anthem is the same as the Swiss national anthem. If anyone had been to the Olympic Games or similar events and heard a Swiss athlete saluted by his national anthem one would have heard 'God Save the Queen' being played. One cannot tell the difference unless in one case one listens to the music with a Swiss ear and in the other case listens with an Australian ear. I believe that what is being said by the Government in this regard is unctuous humbug and utter nonsense. Just look at the posture, the impertinence, of these people who come along and talk about getting rid of the monarchy and of our becoming a republic. I have never heard anything like it in my life. I think it is outrageous. 
As I have said, the picture for Australia is a rather gloomy one. I believe that when the Parramatta by-election is held in a few weeks time the Government will get a sensible reply to its policies, at least from the sophisticated section of the community who can add two and two and get four and know that you will never get fifteen. If the Government goes on with this absurd business of increasing taxation patterns so that it takes all the attraction out of the life effort of the man who works, produces and earns income and keeps pouring money into the pockets of those who it alleges need it without proving their need, it will take the incentive out of the Australian society and will eventually produce a nation of automatons. I suppose that if one were a socialist in the long run that is the sort of thing which one would really believe in. 
The Government's policies, which are emerging, confirm what I have said. I refer to this mania for the nationalisation of medicine. Many people are becoming aware of the fact that in spite of the predictions that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is making the ultimate plan will be for Australia to become a country in which only the Government will be permitted to run anything to do with industries associated with medicine and health and that all the medical practitioners will be part of a salaried scheme as though they were in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force. I have never heard anything more lunatic. However, I can tell honourable members that there will be a reaction in the Australian community because there is a great deal of warmth and feeling for medical practitioners. It is widely understood in Australia that the relationship between a doctor and his patient is vital. If the plans of the Government destroy that relationship, in due course the Australian public will put it out of office and back in Opposition where it ought to have been kept all the time. 
In the period of over 20 years in which I have been a member of this Parliament some interesting changes have taken place in the Australian economy. Labor supporters can talk until they are black in the face about poverty, white Australia programs and so on, but I will let them in on a secret. In the period from 1946 to 1972 this country passed through an historical era which is without parallel for national development since Captain Cook arrived here in 1770. Furthermore, in that time a wise foreign policy brought us to the stage where we were standing against the threat that existed in the world. It was not an imaginary threat about which we got the idea in a penny dreadful book. It was something that Earl Attlee, the great Labor Prime Minister of Great Britain, said in 1950 was a conspiracy. Labor's former leaders Chifley and Evatt put an advertisement in the newspapers stating that there was a conspiracy within this country aimed at the destruction of our society - the alteration of our society. 
Labor stands condemned because as a government its policies are beginning to become clear. Labor wants to nationalise medicine and the mining and minerals industries in which people have been working for over 20 years, carefully building up an infrastructure of technical capacity. They now find that they can no longer continue their work. Labor is hoping to absorb these facets of our society into a monolithic socialist structure run by hordes of civil servants running around the place wasting hundreds of millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money. When this psychopathic plan comes to completion it will be well understood by those people who deal with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  that they are dealing with people who may well be seen trying to walk across Lake Burley Griffin. 
Like the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  I should like to support the measures that are before the House this afternoon. As has been said by previous speakers these Bills are historic and important. They take the territory of Papua New Guinea towards the date of December 1973 when self-government will be formally established there. The House of Assembly and the Government there within will then assume the responsibility for the internal direction and control of the people who live within that country. We in Australia will retain responsibility for the external security and the foreign relations of the people who live within the Territory. 
It was my privilege, under the leadership of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  and accompanied by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and  Senator Durack  of Western Australia, to constitute the first Australian parliamentary delegation to Papua New Guinea during June of this year. I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Banks and the other members of that delegation on the work that was done during that visit, upon the understanding that was established and upon the goodwill that was fostered during that period by all of the members of the parties who represented this Parliament of Australia in the Territory. 
Many times on previous occasions groups of members from both sides of the House have been within the Territory for a variety of reasons - political, personal, commercial, etc. But this was the first occasion during which there had been a parliamentary delegation in the historic sense. I feel that the honourable member for Banks and the other members of the delegation from both Houses of the Parliament did a splendid job in fostering goodwill, particularly with the local government councils, so many of which we saw in so many widespread parts of that great Territory. The honourable member for Diamond Valley has spoken about Bougainville. 
The honourable member for Macarthur, who made a fine speech just prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch has told of the local government councils to which we spoke and of some of the social problems that will inevitably occur in the Territory. As the honourable member for Macarthur pointed out, even at the d:te of self government - an historic occasion on which there will be ratification of the control of a function that has virtually been controlled for at least 12 months because self government has virtually been operating within Papua New Guinea for this period of time - there will be a certain amount of turbulence and enthusiasm that will probably lead to a number of social problems. Whilst that may be the case, I feel that his expressions in relation to this matter were accurate and that he showed wisdom when he said that it must be upon the local authorities and the local police - the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary - that we should rely for the maintenance of law and order. 
That brings me to a significant point. I am sure that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  who has had a lifetime career in the service of our country overseas and who has had many experiences not only in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Asia but also in other countries, will be prepared to accept the fact that humanity may not react in quite the ordered way that one would hope it would react once the first experience of self government is appreciated within the Territory. Be that as it may, if the Government of Papua New Guinea reacts in a strong manner we ought not to be the first to rush in and criticise it because of its stern intentions to maintain law and order and its international reputation. I beg leave to suggest that if it errs at all it may be rather more on the strong side than on the weak side. 
Having said that, I wish to turn to a number of the problems that will arise in the future. I recognise in the first place that the Bills are very important because they deal with communications, civil aviation - a vital component of the developing economy of the Territory - and the progress of the economy. In this respect the Papua New Guinea Loans Guarantee Bill is vitally important. The Commonwealth of Australia will sustain the Government of Papua New Guinea into the future by guaranteeing the loans that have already been  underwritten from the Asian 
Development Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I have no doubt that it will be our responsibility well into the future to stand beside the people of Papua New Guinea and help them convince the international banking authorities that their proposals for the future and their projects for development are in fact banking propositions in the international sense. Here again not only the Minister for External Territories but also some of us in this Parliament who have had experience of the operations of international financial bodies are aware of the fact that almost all of the qualities of native wit and ingenuity will be called upon for demonstration by Ministers in the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
I wish to deal with that part of the Minister's second reading speech on ;he Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) in which he said: 
By agreement with Papua New Guinea, defence and foreign relations will remain reserved to Australia until independence. 
I have given this matter a lot of consideration and thought, and as it is 31 years since I and the honourable member for Wimmera first i"t foot on to Papua New Guinea it will be readily understood that we have a degree of emotional association with the Territory. During the visit to the Territory by the delegation from the Australian Parliament we took some of the younger members of the delegation to the war cemeteries in Papua New Guinea. They were profoundly impressed by the atmosphere at those war cemeteries, the way in which they were maintained and the reverence and dignity with which the people of the Territory - the political leaders in particular - regarded them. They have established for us a liaison between Australia and the Territory which is a little different from the type of liaison that we have with other countries. The Minister might ponder, for example, the relationship between Nigeria and the United Kingdom and bear in mind not only that London is a long way from Lagos but also the subsequent development within Nigeria which led to the terrifying circumstances of a few years ago and the possible emergence of Biafra until the final defeat of  Colonel Oiukwu's  forces by General Gowon. We in Australia ought to be able to avoid circumstances of that nature if we are prepared to enter into contractual arrangements with Papua New Guinea at the time of independence. I believe that this will be something we will have to face up to and it will have to be done in the interests not only of the Territory for the first decade of its independence but also in the interests of the Commonwealth of Australia for that period. 
I hold the view that it will be a terrible shame if the people living in the Territory have to spend a single dollar on military hardware or that sort of equipment which can be provided readily by the Commonwealth of Australia. Papua New Guinea needs every bawbee', every dollar, it has for spending on roads, schools, hospitals and education. In our own interests we ought to encourage Papua New Guinea to do that to the utmost. I notice, as the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  said that no pattern has been laid down for the future relations between the Papua New Guinea defence force and the Commonwealth of Australia. I am not at all concerned about that situation because it encourages me to believe that the Government of Papua New Guinea, during the year or so prior to independence and in the years following independence, will be loath to spend money on military equipment and also to believe that the Australian people prefer to be in the position where they are able to recognise, in some way or another - perhaps by some mutual defence treaty or agreement - that we will be prepared to look after the external relations of Papua New Guinea conjointly in the future. This proposition is by no means impossible. There are many instances of similar activity between countries. It is my hope that this is the sort of thing that will develop within the relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia. 
I was delighted that the Japan-Australia negotiations were accompanied by visits to Japan by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  and other members of the Papua New Guinea Government. It is quite clear to everybody that Japan will be one country in Asia which will be vitally interested in the future development of the Papua New Guinea nation. Japan will be the country that will be economically capable of providing a great deal of assistance. Whilst other countries may be interested in Papua New Guinea, I believe that a great deal of developmental assistance will come from Japan. As we have promised to keep our remarks short, I will merely congratulate the Minister for External Territories again upon the decision to have a parliamentary delegation visit Papua New Guinea. I repeat my thanks to the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  for the work that he did and I congratulate the other members of the parliamentary delegation who made their contribution towards the fostering of goodwill between Australia and the Territory. I hope that it will not be the last parliamentary delegation to Papua New Guinea. 
I want to make a few comments in support of this Bill. As has been indicated by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  the Opposition supports the Government's decision in voting for the change of the protocol and welcomes the participation by an increased number of states in the work of the Air Navigation Commission which is becoming more complex with the technological advances in air navigation in recent years. 1 hope that the Government will seek to have Australian participation in those decisions that are being made in the near future, in particular in relation to the supersonic transport, or SST, aircraft because there will need to be a review of the advancing technology so that the interests of the various countries which are involved in the general structure of world commercial aviation will be best served. I have no doubt that because of Australia's position and because of the interest of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in this particular aspect of Australia's position in relation to the rest of the world, he and his Department will be watching these matters with a great deal of close care and scrutiny. 
I hope that Australia's influence and contra.bution to the International Civil Air Organisation will grow and that the financial assistance we are able to render also will be increased. I feel sure that the International Civil Air Organisation, which has grown by about four or five countries in almost each year, will benefit. In 1972 the membership increased to 124 contracting states. It is interesting to note that those states were as far apart but as vitally interested as any could be. They were, in that year, Bahrain, Equatorial Guinea, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. In this last year, as has been indicated, the total membership has increased to 128, which is more than double the number of States which came together in 1944. There was, at that time, the awareness that there would be a tremendous growth in the International Civil Air Organisation and a great need for the development of a highly qualified professional body, such as this Air Navigation Commission, within the general structure of the International Civil Air Organisation. I add these words of support and assure the Minister that we are profoundly interested, as he is, in supporting legislation of this nature. 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy prepared to table the legal opinions about the validity of the National Pipeline Authority Act, as he has already made reference to these opinions in the House during his recent precise and comprehensive statement? 
I should like to make some comments about Papua New Guinea and one or two comments about the general issue of foreign affairs. I should also like to reply to a few of the comments made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  I find it interesting to ponder the expressions of members of the Australian Labor Party and to note the way in which they identify Australia's independence as being manifested by some various form of international impertinence. Apparently it is their judgment that the people of Australia cannot feel independent unless they are cast in the role of saying to the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries that those countries are engaged in policies which are abhorrent and wrong. If we find ourselves in agreement with the policies of London arid Washington, apparently we are to regard ourselves, to use a phrase used in Peking, as running dogs of the imperialists. 
When one balances these issues against the facts of life one can understand the attitude of mind with which I know the Minister is familiar because he has spent quite a considerable time in various parts of Asia. Why is it that we should have an attitude of mind in Djakarta, in Singapore, in Kuala Lumpur and Seoul with which our friends in the Labor Party find themselves substantially in disagreement? They find themselves substantially in the position in which they are saying to these governments of the Asian countries: 'You people have nothing to be afraid of. You do not have to worry about the activities of those in Moscow and those in Peking of whom you have been afraid. You do not have to worry about them at all. We, with all of the wisdom that we bring from Canberra in 1973, are able to advise you that you have no problem and that you are living in a world of fantasy and fear.' The truth of the matter is that in the last 3 decades the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore have all been subject to a clearly identified communist subversion, a communist attack. 
Honourable members opposite know, and the Minister knows perfectly, the story of Ching-Peng and the terrorist forces in Malaysia. The Minister can explain, although he may be embarrassed so to do, at very great length where the arms and equipment that were captured came from because he knows perfectly well that they were identified. He knows without question in his own mind that had the terrorist activities in Malaysia been successful they would have been carried on through Singapore, and if the efforts of 1965 had been brought to a successful conclusion, they would have carried through, with some form of collusion, some form of arrangement, to Djakarta. 
All these things are true. Honourable members know what happened in Vietnam; they know what happened in Korea. If one is to be regarded as servile by believing that the governments of South Korea and South Vietnam ought to have been helped in their attempts to remain free, to remain in control of their countries, then I for one would like to be identified in that event as being servile, because I hold the view that if the attitude of mind that was expressed by the honourable gentleman is followed to its logical conclusion we could have been independent in our outlook only if the enemy had succeeded and if in fact South Korea had become a vassal state of North Korea and if in fact South Vietnam had become a vassal state of North Vietnam. One does not know that this particular trend of history will not develop. One does not know that within the next decade what was called the domino theory may not be seen to develop. 
Turning to Papua New Guinea, with which the Minister has a very special relationship, I would like to say that as from 1 December, as has been already said to the House by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  there will be a substantial change in the responsibilities of the Minister's Department. The title of his Department is to be abolished and the bulk of his advisers will, I presume, become officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Minister will be operating under the Minister for Foreign Affairs and looking after the special relationships between the Australian Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea. Looking ahead to the next decade, I believe a number of things should be said to the Minister - I feel confident that he would not disagree with these things; I am not suggesting that he does disagree - in the hope that he will encourage the Government in Port Moresby to do all that it possibly can as speedily as possible to approach that wonderful light on the hill of economic viability. 
One of the ways in which I believe this can be done, particularly in view of the propaganda that is going on at the present time about the world's energy problems, is to invite or influence the Government in Port Moresby to try to accelerate the exploration programs that are being carried out within Papua New Guinea in an effort to identify the ore bodies, to find oil and to develop the resources of that nation. Development should be taken at least to the stage where it will be attractive for international companies to come in and carry out developmental programs, as has already been done in the island of Bougainville. There are great possibilities for the gas in the Purari River area at the north of the Gulf of Papua. I should have thought that if some of the hundreds of millions of dollars that would be necessary for a program of this nature could be secured, at the end of the next decade the enormous concentrations of gas at Barikewa might become commercial and they could be very significant in the future development of the Territory. 
The Kennecott company has been developing a copper mine on the western side of Papua. If United States know-how through companies of this nature can be encouraged to an even greater degree to come to the Territory there may be some possibility of Papua New Guinea more quickly reaching the stage where it will be able to develop its own programs and to stand to a greater degree than ever before on its own feet in terms of financial assistance. However, from Australia's point of view there can be no doubt about the fact that Australian financial assistance and Australian underwriting for future economic development in the Territory are absolutely vital. 
I should like to repeat what I have said before. I do not wish to see the people of the Territory in the position where they have to waste money on military equipment. I believe Australians should have the courage, at least in relation to Papua New Guinea, to face the future and say: 'We will stand with you and by some formal contract we will undertake to look after your defence, internally and externally, over the next 15 years'. I know people are frightened, in this international world, to be as direct as that. I point out that I regard the manifestation of this fear as a little more servile than that type of independence which was being referred to by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  I can see no earthly reason why we should have to apologise to anyone of any colour anywhere else, in any government in the world or in the United Nations, for our particular interest in Papua New Guinea and our particular obligation to see that that country is developed and preserved. 
I wish to put on record some additional comments on a different topic. I hope that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  will pardon me if I move away from the theme of the Middle East and return to Papua New Guinea which we were discussing earlier in this debate. I want to put on the record of the Committee, in relation to future defence relations with Papua New Guinea, the words of Professor J. D. B. Miller who, earlier this year, had this to say: 
Defence aid, is of course, a very special case. Australia has been gravely at fault in delaying so long the separation of the armed forces in Papua New Guinea from those of Australia. To this day, they are part and parcel of the Australian services. Frantic efforts are being made to separate them out, but it is proving a much harder task than it would have been even a few years ago: as the Australian defence organisation has grown more complex, so have run deeper the roots which have to be pulled up in order to make a Papua New Guinea defence organisation a separate body. This is a matter on which we should have taken lessons long ago from the British. The forces in Papua New Guinea should have been under the control of the local Administrator and accounted for in the local budget, even if we put up most of the money. Now everything has to be done in a hurry, and Papua New Guinea, which has never had to pay for its armed forces, is faced with the prospect either of paying for them all of a sudden, which would be financially ruinous, or of getting rid of  them, which might be socially disastrous, or of asking the former colonial power to pay for them, which is potentially troublesome from a political standpoint. 
Further, he had this to say: 
I am thus suggesting that Australia will need to face the preparation of both a general independence treaty and a defence agreement, the terms of which should be worked out with the Papua New Guinea government and publicised in both countries so that people can digest them. These two will constitute a formidable task. Politicians and officials would probably shrink from getting them in order and publicising them widely: they have so much else to do, and they are not likely to want to stretch their scarce time to settle the details of public documents which may well prove highly contentious. But it seems to me that independence will demand this sort of operation, and that it should constitute the main task in the interval between full self-government and independence. An agreed ground-plan for relations between the two countries would serve us well in future; what we have to guard against above all is misunderstanding, especially in the aid and defence fields. If, for example, we do not have a clear and precise defence agreement which describes the circumstances in which Australia would be prepared to consider a Papua New Guinea government's call for armed intervention, say in a case similar to the East African mutinies in 1964 or in the event of regional insurgency, we shall be in real trouble. Personally, I want these occasions to be as few as possible, and I do not want Australia to police Papua New Guinea; but misunderstandings are much less likely if the possibilities are spelled out beforehand than if they are left in a fog. The same appears to be true of project aid policy. 
Those words express what I have been saying in this chamber over the last 6 or 8 months. In saying this, I do not imply that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  disagrees with what I am saying because I realise that there are practical limitations upon his ability to achieve all the things he would like to achieve. What I am saying is that we must look into these matters. 
I understood the attitude of the previous Government and, in relation to these particular defence matters, I am of the view that there is a great deal of similarity between the policy restrictions upon the present Minister and the policy judgments of my Party in the past. I am quite certain that over the next5 or 6 years having regard to the immediate economic future of Australia, it will be in our best interests to be able to come to some form of arrangement, to express it properly and to understand what its limitations and, above all, its responsibilities will be. Therefore, I hope that the Minister will have an opportunity to discuss with Cabinet the message that is in the words that I have put before the Committee this evening. I hope that on some future occasion, within at least the next 6 months, he will be able to give us the result of his consideration. 
I also ask the Minister for Labour a question. Does his memory go back as far as June and July 1949? Is he aware of the fact that the legislation to which he has just been referring and which was mentioned by the Premier of New South Wales is a mirror of that prepared by the Labor Party Premier of New South Wales when Ben Chifley was the Prime Minister of Australia? If what the Minister has said applies to the Premier of New South Wales in 1973 it must therefore be deemed to apply historically to the Labor Prime Minister of 1949 and the Premier of that day. 
I always listen with great interest to my friend, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr 
Keating), because he brings the charm of youth to a novelty of interpretation of fact which I find altogether enchanting.  His  insulting remarks about the former Minister I think one can overlook. Nobody who knows the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who has been associated with him for any length of time and is aware of the distinguished service he has rendered to this country both in war and in peace, would ever take any notice of the grossly vulgar remarks that were made. Not only were they bereft of integrity, they were a manifestation of the shame of the Australian Labor Party. Let me say something about those multi-national companies that have been dealt with. I will admit that at last from the ranks of Tuscany has emerged a man who is like Astur, and that man sits at the table. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is one of the most direct conquerors that we have ever had. He has my respect and I will say it here and now. I am not prepared to say that I am going to argue with him about detail. I know what he wants. I know how he intends to get it. I know the operations that he will follow. I give him my respect because at least he has the charm that made Marshall Rommel distinguished in his day. I say to the Minister that many men respected Marshall Rommel and there were others who did not. 
Multi-national companies have worked in Australia, and I will give a classic illustration of a distinguished company in Sydney, without mentioning its name, that worked for the whole of the financial year 1957-58. It cost that company A72m to do the things that it was doing. After making the payments to its people, when it was operating on the market its production gave that company a return of A104m. The difference is A32m. Of that A32m Consolidated Revenue received A30m and the shareholders in the company received A2m. It is people such as the honourable member for Blaxland who resent the A2m being paid to the shareholders but they will never talk about the A30m. They will never say that a company employs thousands of Australians and in its own right or because of its personal responsibility pays tax to the Treasury. The hundreds and hundreds of people who are employed have to pay tax as well as the company having to pay company tax and excise of all descriptions. All of these things have to be met. With all the profits that are made, we should think of how much Consolidated Revenue takes. But there is no recognition of this at all. 
When the Minister for Minerals and Energy speaks of equity he speaks of the interest of the Government. Do not believe that Australian equity is the shareholding of Australian men and women, because that is not what the Minister is talking about. He is talking about government ownership, direction and control of industry. With all of the charm and savoir-faire of a bandit the Minister intends to take hundreds of millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money and dig holes in the ground. It is fascinating to me that the Minister talks about using the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources. I want to know whether he intends to shoot or hang the Commonwealth geologists who deliver him into a dry hole when he has sent two million bucks down the drain and he has not found one drop of gas or oil. If that occurs, who will the Minister deal with? It is so much easier to deal with a company, to accuse the people in private enterprise of being clandestine conspirators against the welfare of the country. But as the Minister he is in command of the taxpayers' money. To what extent will he blame some public servant and to what degree will he punish him for his failure as a technical man? Under Appropriation Bill (No. 6) which went through Parliament recently the Minister is taking $14m to pay for the pipes which he has resumed for the pipeline. He has done this with all the charm and savoir-faire of Dick Turpin - I think that was the gentleman's name - or Kelly who had in common with the Minister the charm which came originally from the Emerald Isle. 
Edward Kelly. In Appropriation Bill (No. 2) $54m is set aside to purchase the pipes and associated equipment for the pipeline. Another $107m is to be provided under the Pipeline Authority Act. This makes a total of $175m of the taxpayers' money being provided for this purpose. I cannot understand why the Minister does not realise that if this were private enterprise money he could watch some poor unfortunate entrepreneur build the pipeline and do the job properly. Then he could lie in wait for him and get from him not only the 52c in every $1 profit which the taxman now gets but also he could go as high as 62c, 72c or 82c and do it all in the name of the integrity of the Government and the nation. He could have all of those wonderful characteristics that have made the Mafia - I am sorry, that have made political parties - so distinguished in the past. To refuse the appropriation is a possible course open to the Opposition, but I will admit that this would probably constitute irresponsible conduct. But if we approve the appropriation for this pipeline can we hope that it will be for the Department of Minerals and Energy? At this stage leading Queen's Counsel in Melbourne have stated that the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 is not valid. I asked the Minister whether he would table in this House legal opinions from sources which are familiar to the Government, namely, from the office of the SolicitorGeneral and from other people. The Minister said he would, but he has not yet done so. He intends to do so and, knowing him as I do 1 am confident that he will. When these  (Opinions  come forward we will then understand just what it is that the industry is fighting. 
There can be no doubt that the Government has failed to take adequate steps to respond to the prospective shortage of domestically produced petroleum products in Australia. In fact, the Government is acting in such a way as to lead people to believe that it does not want the exploration done for the next ten or fifteen years. What it really wants to do is to hold on to what it regards as potentially successful areas over that period of time and then hope that as technology improves it will be able readily and quite quickly to discover commercial fields of oil and gas and that at that time Australia will be able to make, as the Government sees it, vast profits for a socialist government. In my judgment, whilst there is an attraction of a deadly sort to such a sinister plan, one can more readily assume that what Australia should be doing is proceeding with its proper work of looking into exploration, encouraging it to go forward, inviting people to speculate, taking the risks, and doing a proper job in the hope that when Australia does produce oil and gas fields it will be able to play its part in providing these minerals as needed for the welfare of our own country and the rest of the world. There is no need for us to act like Ali Baba and the 40 thieves. When I think of this it gives me a sort of a Middle East connotation and we should say to the Minister: 'Open sesame'. 
asked the Minister for Min erals and Energy, upon notice: 
Is he able to provide details of the portfolio of shares in private enterprise companies, such as Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, Poseidon Ltd, Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd, recently acquired by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Does he regard the Australian Gaslight Co. in Sydney as a private enterprise or a governmentowned company. 
When will the Corporation be established to operate mining exploration programs and production of oil and minerals within Australia. 
Can he say how many private companies will still be in operation in this field in 1980. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he set out in table form the annual rate of inflation, side by side with the growth figure as a percentage of the Gross National Product for the financial years 1946-47 to 1972-73. 
Will he assess the annual rate of inflation, as at the present time, and estimate, at this current rate, its impact upon the estimated Gross National Product value in 1973-74. 
Having regard to the promise of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to table in this House those opinions establishing the constitutional validity of the Pipeline Authority Act and having regard to the enormous national significance of the measures introduced by the Minister last night, is the Minister prepared to fulfil his promise to me, if possible before the House rises for the Christmas recess? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What are the names of the companies in Australia which hold airline and charter licences 
What are the routes upon which these companies operate. 
How many third level operators are still operating. 
How many private aircraft are operating in Australia. 
What income does the consolidated revenue receive from the civil aviation industry. 
What financial support, as a total figure, is paid into civil aviation from consolidated revenue. 
This afternoon we have had a most interesting debate about inflation, foreign affairs and other matters referred to in the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen on 28 February. This evening I speak in support of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the following terms: 
That the following words be added to the proposed address-in-reply: but the House of Representatives is of the opinion and regrets that your Majesty was not informed by the Government of the true position in Australia in that it has: 
created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it; 
caused uncertainty and in its management of the economy is creating social inequalities; 
attempted to change the Federal system of the Australian Constitution by diminishing the responsibility of the States; 
injured rural industries and the communities they support; 
pursued defence and foreign policies which have seriously weakened our defence capacity; and 
failed to fulfil the expectations of the Australian people because of its administrative incompetence. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  addressed himself to only a number of these important issues. He made it quite clear that he would oppose any attempt to increase the profits earned in the community. He seems to be ignorant of the way in which our present taxation system works. He does not seem to appreciate the fact that the Australian Government and the Federal Treasurer could be deemed to be the most significant and the biggest shareholders in every business in this country. There is no person or authority in this country that gets more out of the Australian community than does the Federal Treasurer. With all the savoir-faire and charm of a highway robber he waits for those who manage to succeed in making profits in this community. He takes 52c out of every dollar of the profit made by the oil companies. My friend from Shortland says that that is not enough; it really ought to be 72c or 82c and we should never expect these people to be entitled to what is referred to in the Australian vernacular as a fair go. 
These issues have been dealt with and I do not propose at this time to go to great lengths in defining the effect of inflation. That has been covered by my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and other speakers on this side of the House. For example, reference has been made to the significant issues in history that arose in those countries that suffered from unbridled inflation. As people will remember, throughout the 1920s there was a classic illustration of inflation in Germany. We are all familiar with the terrible history that followed the unbrided inflation in that country. 
I wish to turn now to one or two matters concerning foreign affairs in view of the fact that at the end of this year Papua New Guinea will become an independent country. Therefore I want to put to the House my views on what must be in effect the future relationships between Papua New Guinea and Australia. There is a tendency in this place for people to believe that by turning their back on a problem the problem will go away. I say here with great respect that this will not be the case with Papua New Guinea. As honourable members know, it is a very diverse country in which there are many diverse influences. There are some possibilities of fragmentation, referred to by the Press, by the allegedly learned correspondents and academics who look at what are called emerging nations and ponder the possibilities of those emerging nations growing into lusty, strong, law-abiding international groups. However, our problem is a problem that will be exacerbated to a degree by the enormous success that some of the free enterprise people, who do not enjoy the affection of honourable members on the other side of the House, have had in certain areas of the Territory. If it becomes very clear to people living in areas like Bougainville, for example, that they are sharing great wealth which would be their own if they were independent and theirs alone, if it becomes clear to people in New Britain and New Ireland that a similar set of circumstances would give them great values of their own, great wealth of their own, and if in Papua there were the same thing there would be a tremendous pressure that would probably result in fragmentation if Australia had no attitude on the matter. Australia has an attitude on this matter. It has a responsibility which no other country has and it ought to be admitted by people in this place that that responsibility will not change when Papua New Guinea is established as an independent country 
If events confirm the suspicions of my friend from Mackellar and if governments in Peking, Moscow and other places begin to exert pressure on Papua New Guinea it is only to Australia that Port Moresby will be able to look for support - moral, financial and physical. There is a great necessity for us to define these matters now before this situation develops and we have the people from Port Moresby going to New York and being greeted and influenced by the remarkable group of people who gather in that even more remarkable organisation known as the United Nations Organisation. Therefore we should have a clear concept of what our relations with Papua New Guinea will be. It is important that we make it clear to the rest of the world that Papua New Guinea will be able to rely upon Australia to a degree and in a manner that in all probability it will not be able to rely upon any other country. If there is going to be a united country and if we are saying to the House of Assembly 'We will back you as a united country' that means quite positively that we are committed to preventing fragmentation taking place. It will be a tragedy for Australia if fragmentation takes place and we sit by, muttering words about inability to interfere in the internal affairs of a responsible independent nation. This is a whole lot of nonsense, convenient verbiage for lots of national and international leaders. People who want to avoid their responsibilities avoid them on the basis that they must not interfere in internal affairs. We must make our position clear, and honourably so, at this time. 
I want to say something about the environment of the new country. Although my friend from Mackellar has dealt with the attitude, views and policies of the communists to such a degree and over such a long period of time that he has been the subject of witty remarks from honourable members on the other side, I want to bring to their attention - I know that some of them know what I am talking about - that our old friend Chin Peng is on the move again in Malaysia. Honourable members will remember that he received the O.B.E. at the end of World War II. He went to London and took part in the great victory parade with a whole series of gallant gentlemen from around the world who were celebrating at that time the defeat of Japan and the late and, we trust, final Reich that was led by Herr Hitler. Chin Peng was there. He went back to Malaysia. He established his forces and he proceeded to suborn, subvert and destroy Malaysia in order to prevent the British from carrying out their program of bringing that country to an appropriate independent status. Finally the British had to remain. 1 say to honourable members that if events of this nature were to develop in Papua New Guinea it would not be the people in London but it would be the people here in Canberra who would have to make decisions in relation to Papua New Guinea similar to those that were made by the honourable and gallant gentlemen in the House of Commons about Malaysia. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to events in Malaysia and to the attempted subversion of that country by Ching Peng and his communist guerillas. Ching Peng, the legendary communist leader, was once ranked with Mao Tse-tung and Ho Chi Minh. He is on the move again in Malaysia, after 14 years of jungle exile. The immediate future will be very important because it is quite obvious that the British will be withdrawn from this region by the Wilson Government. It has no love for what is generally known in Labor Party circles as foreign entanglements. We will discover whether 
Kuala Lumpur and the people in Kuala Lumpur are able to cope with the new problem. The earlier problem, during the period from 1948 to the early 1960s, was met and dealt with by men of the calibre of Field Marshal Templer and significant numbers of the British armed forces, at enormous cost to the home government as well as to Malaysia itself. 
In the five or six minutes remaining to me, I wish to refer to another very important issue which was referred to in the Speech delivered by Her Majesty the Queen on behalf of the Government. I refer to the matter of energy and what is known as the energy crisis in the world today. This is what the Government had to say in Her Majesty's Speech: 
The importance of the creation of a new Ministry of Minerals and Energy has been confirmed by the events of 1973 associated with the developing world energy crisis. 
Although Australia is in a more fortunate position than most comparable nations in this crisis, my Government will not be complacent in planning for the future energy needs of the Australian nation, lt stands ready to join with other nations in search of solutions. 
Last year when the Government announced its plans for the Pipeline Authority I invited the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to tell me whether he was concerned by the references to the constitutional validity of the Pipeline Authority Act of 1973. Honourable members may recall that at that time the Minister kindly said that he would give me information which would establish the validity of this Act. At the end of October 1973 he lived up to his words and gave me the information which I had sought several times in this House about the validity of the Act. I was sent a copy of a letter written by  Senator Lionel  Murphy, Q.C., the Attorney-General of Australia. It was addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. It began: 
My dear Minister, 
I have considered the matters raised in the papers, relating to the Pipeline Authority Act 1973, which you sent to me with your letter of 11 October. 
It then gave several interesting references which detailed the Act, and it concluded: 
The best advice I can give to you is to proceed on the basis that the Act is valid. 
If I were Minister for Minerals and Energy and if I had received that sort of letter from the Attorney-General, I would not be particularly impressed or confident that the Act was valid. In Her Majesty's Speech reference was made to these solutions, to the importance of the ministry of Minerals and Energy and to the great significance of that Ministry to Australia. 
Since this Government has been in power the most incredible series of decisions has been taken. These have led to Australian companies being virtually forced out of the oil exploration industry. The only people who have benefited from the Labor Government's plans and policies have been the major oil explorers from overseas. The small Australian companies have suffered grievously under this policy. On the one hand one talks about a world energy crisis and the value to Australia of oil exploration, but there is no exploration of any significance in this country. The reason is to be found in the policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. With great respect to those who say that what he has indicated will be done has been done by the Australian Government and that this is very important to the future of Australia, I point out that the most vital thing to achieve in this country at this time is a great increase in the amount of oil exploration which is taking place. It will not take place whle the oil explorers and the investors in Australia believe they are confronted by a government which has all the savoir-faire and charm of Dick Turpin, Ned Kelly or some other highway robber who will move in and take over from them all the valuable results of the good work they have carried out. 
In the light of these circumstances, it seems to me that the $50m, as announced, of taxpayers' money to be used as risk capital investment is a pitifully small amount and that if Australia is to be assisted the most vital thing that the Labor Government can do is to encourage free enterprise to come into Australia and to the off-shore areas of Australia to explore, to find oil and to refine it in commercial quantities. This is an absolute vital issue for Australia, and it will become much more significant over the next two or three years than it has been over the last 2 years.  (Quorum formed). 
I address a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister will recall writing to me and advising me  that  the shareholders of Queensland Mines Ltd would be well advised to keep their shares within their possession as those shares in the future would be of great and ever-increasing value to them. My question is: Does the Minister adhere to that written advice at this date? Would he hold it reasonable to tender the same advice to the shareholders of the Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney? 
asked the Minister for Labour and Immigration, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the textile industry in Australia is comparable in many ways to the textile industries in Scandinavian countries. 
Can he also say whether the problem of unemployment, within those textile industries in those countries, is as great relatively as in Australia. 
Will he protect Australian industry production from unfair competition from Asian countries in which, by Australian standards, there is the condition of sweated labour. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I apologise for this question on the eve of his very important function tonight. Is the  Chairman  of the Union Bank of Switzerland,  Dr Alfred  Schaefer,  known to the Treasurer or in the Treasury? Was Australia invited to the recent financial conference in London? Does the Treasurer know of reasons for a statement that there are mounting signs of a coming global financial and monetary crisis which could wreck the economy of the world? If he regards the statement as valid, does it include the socialist world? 
I will not speak at length on this matter. However, I want to make a few comments in support of what was said by my friend the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  about the significance of postal services for people in our community. I want to add to that some comments about the future position, as I see it, which is beginning to emerge. I would be indeed happy if I were able to encourage my young friend, the honourable member for Hume, to believe that these problems will be solved in the very near future. I regret to say, however, that I am certain that they will not be solved. The inflation rate in Australia is likely to reach 20 per cent by Christmas and this will have its impact upon the program of development within the Postmaster-General's 
Department in a very serious way during the next 9 months of this financial year. We will then face the situation where the programs for 1975 and 1976 to be announced in the 1975 Budget will require enormous increases for the Postmaster-General 's Department. 
Whilst we are aware of the fact that the trade union control within the Department is very profound and very significant, whilst we are aware of the fact that that great Department is absolutely vital to the economy and to the welfare of the Australian nation, and whilst we are absolutely sure that we know that this great Department can be strangled by industrial action, we must admit that over these next 9 months the most likely scene in Australia will be that of further disruption and further effects of the inflationary process upon the Postmaster-General's Department. I think that this is extremely significant and will affect the plans by the State governments for decentralisation. People are not going to move to country areas with businesses if their costs are going to be correspondingly increased. A quite considerable amount of information revealed by various committees shows that the customers themselves were more anxious about their services than they were in particular about the cost of them. It is not only the cost of outgoing calls but the cost of inconvenience to metropolitan based associates needing to effect trunk line calls which in many cases results in a loss of business. As honourable members will appreciate, this is an operational problem for companies which would seek to move out of the great metropolises to some of the expansion areas that have been defined by the State governments and by the Commonwealth Government. This is an enormous problem for us and I feel that this Department will reflect the problem in the way I have indicated. 
At this moment, as honourable members know, there is an added burden throughout the world of something like $20,000m to $26,000m which has been put on account with the industrial Western nations. The effect of this will be faced in Australia, not only as a result of the internal inflationary processes resulting from wage increases but also because of this problem that arises on the international scene. We must understand also that at present our balance of payments, our overseas funds, are diminishing at something of the order of $ 16m per week and that by the time the Budget of 1975 comes along we will be in a situation in which I doubt very much that one will be able to encourage the honourable member for Hume to believe that there will be a substantial improvement in this service. 
Finally I should like to make an appeal to the Minister and ask him whether he can do something about second class mail. If he will be kind enough to have a word to the PostmasterGeneral it might be possible for him to have some improvements effected in the rates of delivery in the North Sydney area and through the Artarmon Mail Exchange. 

 -Mr Speaker, as one who entered the 19th Australian Parliament in 1949 to be welcomed by the Leader of the House at that time,  Mr, later Sir Eric  Harrison, I would like to add my words to what has been said today.  Sir Eric  Harrison was a constituent of mine at the time of his death and a personal friend. I endorse all that has been said about him, including the references to him as a debater in the House of Representatives and a campaigner in political campaigns.  Mr particular  reason for rising to say something today is that over recent years I visited him in his home at Castle Cove in New South Wales and at the Willowwood hospital where he was a patient, and the House would like to know of the great personal loyalty and devotion of Lady Harrison that I saw on those occasions. I mention this because in this case it was most marked and most constant. Many of his friends in this House who knew that I was in touch with her and with him from time to time inquired after him and his health.  His  illness was long and, having reached the great age of 82, he passed away. Yesterday in St James Church in Sydney, where so many distinguished members of this House were present, it was a wonderful experience to see and hear great tributes being paid to him. I should like to add my name to the names of those paying tribute here today and to make reference to this devotion and dedication to duty of Lady Harrison. 
I would like to begin my speech by saying a few words to my young and learned colleague from Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who has been in this House for a limited period of time. I understand that he is a successful businessman and therefore he would be qualified to make some comment about the ethics of business people. I feel, however, that the party political type of speech which he made and in which he attacked the Opposition was not a very serious speech in the light of the circumstances that confront Australia today. As we know, the economic downturn within this country has been compounded by many of the actions of the Australian Government, as it now prefers to be called, as distinct from the Commonwealth Government. I would remind the honourable member for Robertson that the biggest shareholder in every business in Australia, the one shareholder who is most dependent upon the success of business in Australia, is his colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  There is no single shareholder in any business in Australia who derives more from the success of that business than does the Treasurer of Australia 
It is absurd to see the economy on the one hand as being free enterprise and therefore different and on the other hand as being Government and absorbing enormous benefits from the success of commerce within the country. There is very little variation in humanity or human outlook whether one has a free enterprise economy or a socialist economy. I would advise the honourable member for Robertson if he were still in his place that he would find humanity is much the same on any part of this earth and when there is a black market, as there was certainly in Berlin, London, Tokyo and Sydney during the last war, there are any number of people, including a number of successful socialists, who are prepared to make what is know colloquially in the United States as the fast buck. I do not believe that this sort of thinking stops in commerce at all. I think there is ample evidence to indicate that many of the people who are expert in the business of the fast buck have found their way into the ranks of the much vaunted Australian Labor Party. 
I support the amendment that has been moved on behalf of the Opposition by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with the view to substituting the following words: 'this House is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis, in that: 
1 ) unemployment is permitted to grow and the prospect for school leavers is prejudiced, 
I think that that was not challenged by the honourable member for Robertson- 
inflation is accelerated, 
That certainly was not challenged by him- 
existing poverty is ignored and new poverty is created, 
personal income tax is increased 45 per cent, 
living standards will be lowered, 
6 ) private enterprise is stifled, 
Government power is further centralised, 
individual incentive and thrift is penalised, and 
9 ) a double tax is levied on estates; and because the Government: 
has made the Budget a socialist vehicle to intensify the attack on the States and break down the free enterprise system, 
believes the absurdity that the Government can spend without people paying or can build without people producing, and 
has preached private restraint but has threatened its achievement by its own Government extravagance'. 
I notice that the Treasurer in his Budget Speech said: 
The abatement in demand pressures is widened also in the labour market, Unemployment has increased and overtime working has diminished. 
I want to relate those events- other than international influences- which have contributed to these circumstances because I believe it is reasonable for us to accept in Australia that we should show how the actions of the Government have contributed to the economic situation and the crisis which we face today. 
When the members of the Australian Labor Party came to power in 1972 they did so because they had said to the people successfully on that occasion, as they had said unsuccessfully on many previous occasions: 'If you elect us we will do all sorts of things for you. All sorts of goodies will come in the bag. We will spend thousands of millions of dollars extra, which you have not earned but which we will give you because we are going to soak the rich and get it out of their pockets for you'. That was successful to a degree. Sufficient to put them into power. With all the charm of robbers down through the ages, they proceeded in 1973, despite the dire warnings that were being given to them and the red lights that were flashing around the world, to honour their promises. They poured hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars into honouring their promises, which tended to be fuel for the fire of inflation that was starting to burn in Australia. Certainly they stimulated the economy and certainly the unemployment that was apparent in August and September of 1972 had vanished by March, April and May of 1973. But from then on the story becomes one of very great significance for the people of Australia, particularly those people who one would have expected to support the Australian Labor Party. 
There is a program that must be faced by a serious government if it is to deal with the economic crisis and that is the international program that has been recommended by the  Chairman  of the Union Bank of Switzerland. I will turn to the international field briefly to give honourable members an illustration of the type of thing which has been recommended by this international economist. He said that we must reduce inflation by imposing consistent and restrictive fiscal, monetary and foreign trade measures, with all industrial nations cooperating; end inflation-oriented thinking; recognise the simple truth that we must put something into an economy to get something out of it; gear wage and salary increases to productivity; curb excessive demands for wage increases, greater social benefits, shorter working weeks, and so on; and avoid creating more special- International Monetary Fund- drawing rights, raising the price of gold, imposing import restrictions, or forcing trade among industrial nations in a bid to correct the balance of payments problems. He said that nations will need to devise a mechanism for the recycling of surplus Arab oil money to those countries with balance of payments deficits. He said that there are major difficulties in this which would lead to the need for a second recycling from the countries with large monetary reserves into those with low reserves. That has been referred to in this House in recent weeks by the Treasurer and by a former Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon). 
The  Chairman  of the Union Bank of Switzerland went on to say that governments must put their finances in the black primarily by reducing their spending. That means right across the board. Even if it is a matter of being unpopular, if one is talking about a reduction in education programs, a reduction in social service programs and a reduction in defence programs, one has to face up to the situation because if this country's inflation rate goes to 20 per cent and if inflation is allowed to run riot for 2 years we will find that Australia will be collapsing around our ears and we will have hordes of people unemployed simply because those who provide employment for them in free enterprise will have become bankrupt and no longer will be able to provide the employment that is the absolute lifeblood of the workers of this country. 
Surely it must be clear even to the most obtuse of the Government's Ministers that it is no real answer to unemployment to take a man who has been working in some special field and offer him employment as a labourer in the building of a swimming pool or toilets in Tasmania or something of that nature, as was referred to by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in this House yesterday. Strong democratic governments that are able to employ unpopular means to achieve what is necessary and appropriate for their economies are the ones which will win the respect of the world and be the first to put their nations back on to a sound and rational level. 
I was interested in yesterday's article by the former Premier of New South Wales, the Honourable J. T. Lang, who would be well remembered, I am quite sure, by my distinguished friend the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  who is present in the chamber. The former Premier of New South Wales, the Honourable J. T. Lang, who is now one of the patriarchs of our democracy and who is in his nineties, wrote a very interesting article in which he compared 1930 with 1974. The message that is quite clear for people who have the capacity to comprehend and for people who can read is that in future years we may look back on 1974 and see a greater similarity between 1929-30 and 1974 than we in fact realised at this time was possible. At the conclusion of the article to which I have referred the Honourable J. T. Lang had this to say: 
In the United States the rate of inflation seems to have stabilised at a steady 10.7 per cent a year. In Britain it has reached 16.S percent, and in Japan 23.4 percent. Israel has a towering 44 per cent inflation rate due mainly to the cost of the October war, and taxation is currently taking 63 per cent of the national income. 
That paints a terrible picture for the people of Israel. The article continues: 
The international bankers and the economists failed to produce a satisfactory solution of the 1930 world depression, and now in 1 974 the same people - 
He does not mean the same people in a physical sense; he means the people occupying the same positions of power and influence- have no answer to the problem of world inflation. 
Excessive debt charges and restrictions on borrowing resulted in wholesale bankruptcies and foreclosures in 1930, and excessive interest charges and restrictions on credit have resulted in liquidations and forced sale of businesses in 1974. 
The easy way out is to blame the Government for the crisis, but the blame lies well beyond that. The primary responsibility must be carried by the reserve banks, which act as advisers to the Governments and are the principal originators and directors of monetary policy. 
With great respect to the former Premier of New South Wales, I doubt very much whether the Reserve Bank of Australia would be prepared to accept responsibility for the monetary and fiscal policies of the Whitlam Government. In fact, I have every reason to suspect that the chiefs of the Reserve Bank of Australia would quietly put on their hats and steal away into the darkness if such an incredible suggestion were put to them. The article continues: 
The present crisis is entirely in the field of monetary management and that is where the prime responsibility rests for both the world depression of 1 930 and that of 1 974. 
Cheaper money and acceptance of calculated risks by the lending bodies are the essentials for bringing the present inflation under control. But time is running out. 
My friend the Treasurer had the hide to come into this House- these words send shivers up and down my spine- and say: 
Crucial as the fight against inflation is, it cannot be made the sole objective of Government policy. 
I venture to suggest that by this time next year that unfortunate man will be eating his words, because by this time next year it will be clear, even to the thickest ever crust of mankind, that the fight against inflation must be the sole main objective of government in this country. 
My friend from Wimmera has reminded me that on one occasion the Treasurer did recommend putting in orders for BHP shares at $7.50. That was probably a fanenough recommendation some years ago. If he puts m an order next year to buy at $2 he will probably get substantial figures. That is my judgment on the matter. The Treasurer said: 
The Government is committed to the program of social reform to improve the position of less privileged groups in our society and to maintain employment opportunities. 
We have said in our amendment that the Budget ignores existing poverty and further increases poverty. After all, for people who were getting a small benefit from a $400 deduction for education expenses to be told that it had been reduced to $150 is tantamount to admitting again that the Labor Party is out to do all it can to destroy the independent school system in Australia. It is such a small amount in the context of the $ 16,000m that the Government has taken from the economy that it seems incredible that it could have been done with any economic motive in mind, and one wonders what on earth the social motive could be. Furthermore, this absurd tax that the Government is going to put on to unearned income in its first introduction to the House is quite clearly a sectional tax that is going to hit people who have invested as the years have gone by and accumulated some possible chance of small dividends. They are going to find themselves taxed because that particular income is described as unearned income. If I may say so, that is the most arrant bunkum I have heard for years. Most people who exert themselves throughout their lives earn income to invest in order to get other income. So in the first place income for most people is income that is earned by some form of endeavour. Surely if you are going to encourage investment, if you want Australian investment- I understand the Government disapproves of investment from overseas from what it describes as foreign multinationalswhy does it discourage people who are Australians from investing in their own country, because the Government is then going to tax them by an extra 10 per cent in this Budget? That is itself absurd. I believe that Australians must face up to the fact that the holidays are over, the good days are gone for a period of time, and that probably 60 per cent of the effect of that hitting the 'lucky country' comes from overseas but I am absolutely certain that 40 per cent comes from the stupidity, the cupidity and the immoral approach to politics of the Australian Labor Party. They have gone out into the market place with a bag in one hand saying: 'Put your vote into this hand of mine and take your parcel of goodies out of the bag in the other hand. ' 
I reject the Budget. I will vote for the amendment and I hope that it will not be long before Australians understand that they have a group of people in their Government who do not know what they are doing as far as this nation and its economy is concerned, people who appear to have a very limited sense of" responsibility and who allow- the best one can say- their compassion and their sincerity to get the better of their own judgment, people who want something for nothing and who set abroad in this country this pernicious belief that you can get something for nothing when you can not. You can only get it at some other poor wretch's expense, and this I warn you is in every social sense the very worst type of concept to have going abroad in the Australian community. I hope the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  will do all he can as robustly and as quickly as he can to stifle the concept. 
I rise to support the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  because I am confident that the integrity of his argument will not escape the honourable members who sit on this side of the House. I would remind you,  Sir, as  the member for Sydney as well as the  Speaker  of this House, that during ancient times in an earlier Parliament an equally distinguished person of equal standards of integrity representing the Australian Labor Party, namely the honourable member for Dalley who was a very distinguished Treasurer of this House, was accused by five of his colleagues, including the father of the present honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  of what one might describe as a subtle form of embezzlement. They accused him of using funds that were for people- pensioners, unemployed and so on - 
I understand,  Sir. I  was merely inferring that there was a measure of integrity in this motion that has been put by the honourable member for Mackellar. Whilst I am sure that it is impossible for you officially to comment on what I am saying I have no doubt that the point of my words is not lost on the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
I wish to speak only briefly on the estimates for the Department of Transport in order to make the comment that I hold the view that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones),  who is now the head of this great empire which has been achieved by the amalgamation of the former Department of Shipping and Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation, has now grouped all transport matters under the following series of headings: Surface Transport Group, Air Transport Group, Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, Shipbuilding Division, and Commonwealth Railways. I submit that we will discover that too much expertise is demanded of this great empire and that the day will come when we will find it nesessary to revert to those areas of authority which will be able to control in a departmental sense the particular areas of transport within Australia to which I have referred. 
I want to spend at least six or seven minutes tonight in saying some thing about the situation in relation to aviation. As the Minister knows, and as the Parliament knows, Australia has a very proud record in civil aviation. Qantas Airways Ltd is our national carrier and Qantas enjoys a reputation around the world which will stand comparison with the reputations of the finest of the international carriers of all other countries operating on the great civil aviation networks around the globe. Inside Australia we have the dual aviation system which has been operating for quite a number of years now. Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines maintain the services on the internal trunk routes. These companies have remained viable in an extremely marginal industry. What is not clearly understood by so many people is that the business of running aeroplanes to make money is indeed a very marginal business. I can speak from personal experience in relation to this problem. 
I can assure honourable members that it is only on the rarest of occasions and in a particular environment even the biggest of companies are able to make high profits. I would point out that in recent weeks we have seen the United States Government authorities being told that great companies such as Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines Pty Ltd- that sort of international organisations- are in need of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of support in order for them to be sustained through a period of liquidity problems and a period of technical developmental problems. As Australia 's civil aviation industry grows to greater significance we will see the same sort of problems arise. 
I particularly wanted tonight to say something about the effect of the recent whole wide range of taxation increases upon the general aviation situation. When speaking of general aviation I refer to the small aircraft operations, the charter companies, the aero clubs and those training organisations which teach young Australians to fly. I want to say something about the general concept which I know was in existence during the days of the Liberal Party-Country Party governments. I can remember the then Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  saying once that out of the aviation industry gen.erally more and more funds had to emerge to compensate for the hundreds of millions of dollars that were being poured into the industry by the Commonwealth Government. Whilst at first glance this appears to be a valid contention, I wish to make it quite clear that in Australia the situation will be created where the smaller companies, the general aviation companies, will not be able to exist. We have had a number of third level companies that have been operating on what are called third level licences. They are companies that are unable to continue in operation because of financial problems that have arisen for them. It is an extremely difficult situation and it is related to the significance to the Australian Government, from whichever side of the political spectrum it may come, of decentralisation within Australia 
I have said before in this House, and I will say again, that we are not able to sustain a general range of small companies operating small aircraft if it is demanded of them that their program reaches over the length and breadth of the country without financial subsidy being provided by the Commonwealth Government. I can assure honourable members that the expenses, the costs, of light aircraft today are so vast that groups of people who would normally operate them between large country towns need substantial financial backing in order to be able to do this on an economically viable pattern. If I may say so, we have produced in Australia a magnificent small aircraft which is called the Nomad. 
This aircraft has done a great deal towards sustaining within Australia people with the knowhow and the capacity to maintain the services of this aircraft within our country and people who will maintain the knowhow associated with an aviation manufacturing industry. But the point I would like to bring to the attention of my friend, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who has just been endorsing what I have been saying, is that if the Nomad is to be made available within Australia for the smaller companies to operate, some way has to be found of reducing the cost of the aeroplane, because I can assure honourable members that the smallest companies, the third level companies, so many of which have become bankrupt in recent times, will not be able to afford the borrowings, the servicing of the borrowings and the investment in an aircraft which, as everyone knows, is in the price range of $300,000, including support equipment and so forth. The operation of such aircraft, with these costs involved, is a mammoth task. If one looks at companies such as Connair Pty Ltd, which operate throughout the centre of Australia and which do a very important job for people who live out in the distant area, one understands readily the reasons they need more and more financial support to be economically viable. There may come a time when they can look forward to being able to stand on their own feet to buy new equipment, but I can assure honourable members that within our country it is most unlikely that that situation will emerge for many years ahead. I conclude by saying that I believe that the Government, the Parliament, should come up with a recognition of the fact that this is one of those times when we cannot implement regular public transport services in country areas unless financial support is provided for the smaller companies. That means also that we have to provide subsidy support on fuel costs and aircraft costs for training organisations and for the small charter operations that try to survive around the country. I believe that it would be a sad thing for Australia if we were to find ourselves in the position that the light aircraft operator between country cities was to be put out of business simply because the whole operation had become far too expensive. 

 -Mr Speaker, I should like to address a question to you. My question is the result of an answer given yesterday by the Leader of the House which attracted some mirth and some interest in the House. I ask: For the benefit of the Leader of the House can you,  Mr 
Speaker, confirm that in relation to redistributions of boundaries and alterations of electorates, north is not south as east is not west and that Party submissions should recognise that never the twain shall meet? Do you agree that the distinguished members for Sydney and North Sydney should keep the harbour between them, in particular, Fort Denison? 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr James)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I second the motion. I would draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker,  the fact that in the second reading speeches of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on both of these measures these comments were made. He said that there is absolutely no justification for continuing the heavy subsidy support of the general aviation industry which makes heavy demands - 

 -Yes, Sir, I understand that. 
I submit to you, with respect, that it was necessary for the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  to move that Standing Orders be suspended because he was in fact being prevented from dealing with those particular matters that were dealt with by the Minister when he referred to there being absolutely no justification for continuing the heavy subsidy support of the general aviation industry. I understand that you have ruled that pilots' salaries and issues of that nature are not relevant. I appreciate that. 
-Yes, I understand that,  Sir. The  Minister has made it quite clear what the 
Government's policy will be and I will admit that it is consistent with the decision made in 1960 by the then Commonwealth Government to adopt a long term policy for ultimate recovery of costs of air transport facilities provided by the Government. But the fact that I think we must make quite clear here- this is why we seek the suspension of the Standing Orders- is that the end result of this policy is the destruction of general aviation in Australia. It will prevent companies which operate into Queensland, Tasmania, Western Australia and the Northern Territory from being economically viable. There has to be a differentiation, I submit, by this Parliament between those smaller charter companies, regular public transport operators, third level operators, who are seeking to operate out into the hinterland of Australia. The larger companies under the dual system can survive. Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines are doing reasonably well. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I do understand that I am seconding the motion that Standing Orders be suspended. That is perfectly true. The reason why Standing Orders should be suspended is that matter was brought into the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill which was, I submit, not strictly germane to a strict interpretation of airline charges without there being reference to extra matters that were associated with the results of the increases in airline charges. The point I am trying to make is that in the end result general aviation will suffer. Whilst the major companies like Ansett and TAA will be able to operate viably in an economic sense, the smaller companies throughout Australia will be in very serious trouble indeed. I second the motion. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I second the amendment, which reads as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the passage of this Bill the House is of the opinion that in view of the effect on the inflationary spiral, the Government should state in some detail the proposed increase in fees and charges covering a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry'. 
I stress again that the reason for this amendment is that if the charges are increased in the way suggested in the Minister's second reading speeches and if the program is followed to the stage where 80 per cent of the costs met by the Government are to be expected from the civil aviation industry in return- and I admit that in 1960 the Liberal-Country Party Government started this process- the end result will be that there will be no third level operators functioning in Australia. There will be no charter operators, there will be no Connair, there will be no Forrester-Stephens, there will be no Masling, there will be no Bush Pilots company in Queensland. I warn the Government that this will be the effective result. The Minister talked about 1.9 per cent of cost. Does he not realise that most of these people are in a marginal industry and their profits run at somewhere less than 5 per cent and that after they have paid their taxation they are in a marginal position. Very often while they are being invited by governments and authorities to go into the use of much more expensive aircraft they find themselves in a position where they have to borrow from banks and they have got to service the borrowing. They cannot elevate their charges for air fares and for charter operations beyond a certain level, which is an optimum level within the industry, and they will become bankrupt. That has been the story throughout Australia over the last few years. It would have been the story in major civil aviation in Australia if there had not been the dual system in which agreements have been reached between Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia on operations along the trunk routes of Australia. If there had been more than 2 operators on the trunk routes over the last 10 years there would have been people going bankrupt. In view of the inflationary spiral, and the impact of rising fuel costs and so forth this will be the end result. 
I know that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is justified in saying that this policy was introduced long before he became Minister for Transport. I accept that. The point I am trying to stress in the Parliament is this: If we want to maintain decentralisation and if we want to. maintain the services which are decentralised and which are so vital to people living in the Northern Territory, north-western Queensland; Western Australia and Tasmania, as my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  will admit, we have to have 2 chapters in this book and we cannot afford to bring to bear upon general aviation Government policy which is set out in terms that are related to the economic viability pattern of the major trunk operators throughout the country. I make this appeal confident in the hope that the Parliament will appreciate that what I am saying is true. There are people in this Parliament who have tried to make money running aeroplanes. I ask honourable members to accept my assurance that it is an entirely marginal prospect and that the dividends paid to and profit levels of shareholders are absolutely marginal. 
When the Minister is talking about the figure of 1 .9 per cent in relation to the operating costs of an aircraft he can be talking about 60 per cent of the profit in the unit. He does not seem to understand that. The Minister does not look at the other great modes of transport for which he is responsible and demand that there be a gradual process - 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What action is proposed  by the Government to stabilise  the employment levels in the textile and knitted garments industry having regard to the recent announcements by the General Secretary of the Australian Textile Workers Union,  Mr W.  A. Hughes. 
-As ViceChairman of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts I present the one hundred and fortyninth and one hundred and fiftieth reports of the Public Accounts Committee and move that they be printed. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
-As Vice Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the 151st report and 152nd report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Taxation Boards of Review are in operation at present. 
Who are the members of each Board, and when were they appointed. 
What emoluments do the members receive and what are the terms of their appointments, e.g. duration, specific terms of reference for  chairman  and members, etc. 
Are appeals to these Boards limited in any way, i.e. do any restrictions exist in relation to State taxation. 
What is the degree of delay in the hearing of appeals by the Boards. 
-There is one aspect of this clause which interests me. As a former  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, I am sure that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will be kind enough to forgive me if I bring this matter to his attention. It has been noted that clause 34 (2) reads: 
The  Chairman  of the Commission has all the powers of, or exercisable by, a Permanent Head under the Public Service Act 1922-1974 so far as those powers relate to the branch of the Australian Public Service comprising the staff referred to in sub-section ( 1) as if that branch were a separate Department of the Australian Public Service. 
In clause 35, as one would expect, there is reference to the fact that moneys payable to the Commission under this or any other Act shall be collected and received by the Commission on account of, and shall be paid into, the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Clause 36, in dealing with the Commisssion furnishing information to the Attorney-General and the Department, states: 
1 ) If the Attorney-General or either House of the Parliament or a Committee of either House, or of both Houses, of the Parliament requires the Commission to furnish to him or to that House or Committee any information concerning the performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act, the Commission shall comply with that requirement. 
I am wondering how the Audit Act affects the Commission and whether the commissioners are affected as are all other departments and permanent heads who are conscious of the impact of the existence of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth. The Minister has set out in his memorandum quite explicit comments in relation to the audit requirements relating to corporations. 
Clause 36 which is set out on page 23 of the Bill. I have referred to the  chairman  of the Commisssion being treated as a permanent head. Clause 35 provides, as one would expect and anticipate, that all moneys payable to the Commission shall be collected and received by the Commission on account of, and shall be paid into, the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Clause 36 deals with committees of either House of the Parliament which would include, for example, the Public Accounts Committee. I am asking where within the Bill is there reference to the effect of the Audit Act and to the AuditorGeneral? Has the Auditor-General and his office been excluded from a relationship with the Commission which would be similar to that which he would have with all the other departments of State? I point out that on page 43 of the explanatory memorandum the Attorney-General has stipulated quite stringent standards in relation to the audit requirements for the corporations. As one would expect, those requirements relate to State and Territory legislation, as has been mentioned, except that an auditor of a registered corporation will need to be registered under this legislation. The memorandum refers to the definition of 'registered auditor', and then goes on to say: 
The function of registering auditors is to be vested in the CEC . . . The qualifications required are in line with those existing in State and Territory provisions except that a degree or diploma from a College of Advanced Education is recognised. 
It seems to me that it would perhaps be reasonable to expect that somewhere in the Bill there would be clarified, in the light of all of these circumstances, the relationship between the Commission and the Auditor-General who is answerable, after all, to the Parliament in his annual report. I would be grateful if the AttorneyGeneral would let me know whether that is envisaged, whether he would consider an amendment to the Bill having that in mind, or whether he considers it to be quite unnecessary. 
I wonder whether the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has considered an interesting point relating to clause 49 which is concerned with the allotment of shares otherwise than in pursuance of a prospectus. The aim of the clause, as I read it, is to have clarification for the general public to whom the prospectus is made available. Has the Attorney considered the situation that could arise where shares are made available to nominee companies of banks and set out in the prospectus. In such a case the Commission may find itself asking the banks, for whom their own nominee company is in existence, to advise them of the beneficial ownership of the shares? I have always understood that only the Commissioner of Taxation has been able to do that sort of thing in the past and neither the Government nor the Treasury has on any previous occasion in Australian history been prepared to intrude into that sort of field. Could the Attorney answer that question? 
I have listened to the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in relation to clause 60 and the comments that were made earlier by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  I can appreciate the significance of what the AttorneyGeneral said. Of course it is enormously difficult to arrange the powers of the Commission- and under clause 61, the Governor-General, which of course means the Government- to deal with this prohibition problem in relation to trading on the stock market. But I have news for the AttorneyGeneral and his advisers. I hope they are listening. He is creating a situation which will give a good deal of what-ho in the market because he seems to have forgotted that a stock exchange is a marketplace. All it needs is for someone to say: I say, old boy, have you heard the news today? The Attorney-General is going to prohibit trading in such and such a stock and it will be at a certain level on the market'. What happens then if the Attorney-General has to change his mind in three or four weeks time after an investigation? What would be the price level at which the stock would go back on to the market? Here is an opportunity for some really smart operatorsmost of whom are not lawyers, I remind the honourable member for Hawker- to get into a situation where they could make a cool fortune, whether they are in the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the Australian Country Party. 
I remind the Attorney-General that under the legislation which governs oil exploration, the oil search assistance Act, there has been in Australia' a situation in which no one can operate or assert that a commercial oilfield exists until such a proclamation is made by the Governor-General. It is within the power of the Crown to make such an assertion. Under the provisions of this Bill the Attorney-General may find that there is a risk of starting rumours. The Government does not appear to me to have provided for it to be an offence to start rumours which have an effect on the marketplace by announcing that the Commission or the Government is moving to prohibit trading in a certain stock. I would have thought that this needed to be done. I bring it to the attention of the Attorney-General because I think it is worthy of consideration. I suggest to him that if he ignores it, he is likely to have some really fascinating circumstances in 1976. 
My question, which is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer, relates to the preparation of the 1975-76 Budget which he will be undertaking in the next few months. I ask: Is the Treasurer in receipt of advice of the great increases in municipal rates and Water Board rates within the electorate of North Sydney during the last 2 financial years? Is he prepared to comment upon the fact that 80 per cent of the annual revenue of the Sydney Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board is spent upon interest rates on capital borrowings? 
-In view of the lateness of the hour I have agreed to restrict my comments considerably. Following the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who introduced some very interesting aspects of criticism of the Government's economic policy, and after examining these Bills, I feel constrained to remind the House of the origin of the industry in this country. I feel that whilst we acknowledge the Government's problem which emerged at the end of 1974 and the decision that the Government made, which is reflected in these Bills, the Government ought to recognise that in the first place when the automotive industry was established in Australia it was done largely as a result of political decisions that were made by the Labor Government in Australia- the Chifley Government in the Eighteenth Parliament. As the years have gone on and the automotive industry has grown we have seen tremendous economic pressures developing that have in recent years begun to reflect themselves in the sort of problems that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was referring to when he made some critical comments about production in Australia at the time last year when the Leyland company was in trouble. 
The Prime Minister said at that time that it was impossible for a government to accept responsibility for the production of a company that was not able to sell its product. That to me at the time seemed a perfectly reasonable statement of fact. However, honourable members may recall that prior to the decision which is implemented in these Bills what actually happened was that the Government, giving careful consideration to the problems at the Zetland plant, came to a very generous conclusion and made arrangements with the Leyland company for a purchase of that plant and for the purchase of a large number of P76 motor cars. I do not know what has happened to those motor vehicles. I presume that they will emerge in government service at some time. When the situation referred to by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  developed early in the new year and it appeared that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd- which as I indicated earlier was the original company that was to produce the Australian motor car straight after the war- would retrench 5000 of its employees in mid-January the Government moved very quickly and dramatically. As the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said, this was a departure from government philosophy and government policy. 
I hope that when the Treasurer winds up the debate, if he has anything to say, he will be prepared to give us the information that may be before him or before his advisers about the effect of these decisions, because undoubtedly the decisions to reduce the sales tax have been presented through the media, by the advertising companies working on behalf of the automotive industry, as real inducements for people in Australia to purchase motor cars to reduce the backlog of the companies that are carrying on. We ought to be able to obtain some information as to how the reduction in that backlog is progressing. It would seem to me that the reductions were effective from 29 January 1975 but thai on i May iiic rate of tax on passenger motor cars will be increased to 17Vi per cent and the tax on commercial motor vehicles will be increased to 7 per cent. Thereafter the rates will increase at monthly intervals by 2V4 per cent and 2 per cent respectively until the rates of  21 Vi  per cent for passenger motor cars and 15 per cent for commercial motor vehicles are restored on 1 September 1975. 
I hope that the Treasurer will be able to advise the House that this rate of increase, which will be relatively gradual over that period of time, will be related to a diminution in the backlog of motor vehicles, for which the whole plan is designed. I hope that he will be able to give us some information as to the impact upon the companies and their problems of the decisions that he and his colleagues in Cabinet have taken. If on the other hand the inflationary pressures begin to become very difficult in Australia in August and September of this year there will be other pressures upon the motor vehicle companies which will hit them at or about the time that the sales tax returns to 27Vi per cent. I bring this matter to the attention of the Treasurer and I would be grateful if he could give us any information on it. As my friend the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  said, we understand exactly why this was done. It was a very remarkable decision. We all applaud it. We support the Bills but we would appreciate some information from the Treasurer, if it is possible, as to the effectiveness of the decision. 
I listened with great interest to the speech of my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  I find some of his assumptions very interesting. I would like to make some comments about them to give some continuity to this debate. But before I do that I want to say a word or two about the present position and give my interpretation of the general view of Australians in relation to existing laws that we now describe with the modern term of ' family law legislation '. 
When I first came into this Parliament it was generally accepted that this type of legislation now before us was properly within the jurisdiction of the States. There was some talk in 1956 or 1 957 about the need for uniform laws on divorce to apply throughout the Commonwealth of Australia so that people living in Western Australia, Queensland, New South Wales or any other State would be subject to a coherent standard and law which would apply evenly in all the States. This concept probably would not have been beyond the ken of the great legal giants at the time of Federation- men like Edmund Barton and Deakin and others. But it does appear that originally it was the view of the fathers of the Australian Federation, the people who set up the Constitution of Australia, that this type of law ought to be the responsibility of the States. 
The first recollection I have of the issues being raised in the House of Representatives was when  Mr Percy  Joske. became the member for Balaclava after  Sir Thomas  White left the Parliament. It was widely known within the House of Representatives that  Mr Joske  was one of Australia's experts in the field of divorce law. He had in fact written textbooks which I understand were the basis of teaching in the universities of Australia. A private member's Bill proposed by  Mr Joske  came in and out of the House of Representatives during a period of 12 months or more. There was discussion about it. Eventually, because of the reaction within the community which was political as well as social, not very much was done. 
Honourable members will remember that in due course we moved to Commonwealth legislation when  Sir Garfield  Barwick took the place of  Sir Howard  Beale in this place. Legislation was introduced which was to be effective in all States and territories of the Commonwealth of Australia and which therefore, within the terms of the Constitution, took precedence over State legislation. The legislation which has been introduced by the Labor Government will, of course, if it is passed and becomes law, take precedence over all previous legislation and have a corresponding effect throughout the States. In the light of this I feel it is reasonable to look at the laws that will be superseded and at the circumstances which exist at present in the various States and to establish whether or not it is a valid contention that most thinking Australians would desire reform. 
Most of us are aware of the fact that the Press on many occasions has field days for sensationalism when reporting divorce cases. Generally the cases that the Press reports are sordid and sensational, relating to wealthy people, people who are socially prominent. The newspaper articles usually refer to the troubles of these people. One could gain the impression that the average reader of these articles would get some satisfaction from reading about the discomfort and misery that was being suffered by a particular family. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I had referred to the history of the matrimonial clauses legislation during the last 20 years in the House of Representatives. I turn now to the amendment and the clauses of the Bill. The amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  indicates that the House is of the opinion that the Bill should give expression to certain principles. It goes on to recite those principles, beginning with the principle that the family is the basic and stable unit of the Australian society; secondly, that marriage should be buttressed; thirdly, that marriage should be permanent and secure. Bearing in mind the solemn intention and sincerity of the Minister who has put this amendment, on studying the Bill I find in clause 43 the established principles to be applied by the courts. Clause 43 states: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children; 
As one goes through the amendment it would seem that the Bill sets out to protect those principles that have been enunciated by the people who are supporting the amendment. 
When I referred to the present position under the Matrimonial Causes Act, I thought that the debate in the House had been conducted at a level that was largely to do with matters of principle and that there had not been much reference to what has been going on in the divorce courts of Australia, apart from a fascinating speech by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  Although I will not go into that in detail, with great respect to him, I would have thought that reference to the facts may have been of some assistance in this debate. I am told that about 90 per cent of applications for divorce are undefended. That leads me to believe that the practical fact of the matter is that in our society when people decide that they are going to have a divorce they simply break up the marriage and that is the end of it. If they are well-to-do people, they are probably not desperately concerned about financial arrangements. If they are people worthy of having been married in the first place and if they are worthy, responsible citizens, then they would make appropriate arrangements for their children. If they are persons who will disregard entirely the rights of their children and if it is the husband who is at fault, I would venture the view that the wife is well rid of the wretch and the sooner she can get separated from him the better and any talk of limiting the separation period before a divorce may be obtained to 12 months or 12 days is really superficial comment. 
Among the 10 per cent of divorces which are defended there are no doubt many complicated cases. This Bill sets out to provide for some evenhanded, fair situation within which the court will exercise its jurisdiction and have regard to the matters to which I have referred. So a great deal must depend upon the circumstances as they exist at the time in the particular case in the court. For that reason it seems to me that we want to avoid the current situation in which an enormous number of spouses, having decided to fracture a marriage, go off, change their name, ignore calls for maintenance and simply desert their responsibilities entirely. As I have said, people who do this sort of thing can barely expect to be regarded as highly responsible people who had a marriage that needed protection, because I would have thought that they have been revealed as people with no sense of responsibility and people who have ignored their duty. I have virtually no sympathy for them. 
In view of the fact that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J.  F. Cairns) laid so much emphasis upon the work of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  in dealing with the history of this legislation it is fair and reasonable to point out that  Mr Raymond  Watson, Q.C., who is a distinguished lawyer in the divorce jurisdiction, has played a considerable part in the preparation of this legislation. It is the view of most of the lawyers to whom I have spoken that the effect of this legislation will be to cut down the financial impact on people in the majority of cases. If that is the case- looking at the clauses of the BUI which relates to cost, one would hope that it would be- then this will be a good thing, because one of the bad aspects of our existing legislation is the impact of the costs upon people who go through the unfortunate process of divorce. As I understand it, people have been reduced to poverty or reduced substantially in wealth as a result of the current divorce laws. One can have sympathy for people when they do not deserve to be treated in this way. One would hope that within the family court system as it is set out in this Bill this situation will be avoided in a substantial number of cases. 
I do not believe that legislation in this Parliament or in any other Parliament can substantially protect a marriage that is doomed to failure. I think the truth of the matter is that people have to face up to their responsibilities. If it is a grievous misfortune of life for a young woman to marry a man who turns out to be an irresponsible person, then she will suffer this misfortune no matter what, and I cannot see how any legislation is going to protect and buttress her position. As I said before, if the truth were admitted and faced, in many cases it would probably be a good thing if she got rid of the man as quickly as possible in the hope that her life may be better in the future. As I have said, I believe that the clauses of this Bill relating to publicity are in the best interests of our society. Frankly, I do not think there is a great deal of merit in having kiddies subjected to the types of Press reports which one sees from time to time. Generally they relate to the landed aristocracy in the United Kingdom or in Europe, or perhaps to people of social fame or prominence. It appears to me that the media, revered as it might be, derives great pleasure in revealing these people to be a sordid group of Bacchanalians or something like that, people who live out lives of depravity. 
In this respect the Bill is an advancement and the Press might reasonably accept the concept that these are private matters. People should have the right to go through this unfortunate, sad, depressing, dismal business of divorce- if they have to go through it- with a maximum degree of privacy and the retention of such dignity as they may possibly hope to retain in the circumstances. Having looked at these clauses and given a lot of thought to this matter, I have come to the conclusion that I will support the Bill. I will not support the amendment simply because I believe that the Bill does largely what the amendment expresses. It puts upon the courts and the people responsible for running those courts the main responsibility for implementing the Bill and for making the whole system work in the interests of the people of our country. 
In conclusion I make this comment: Side by side with my colleagues in the House of Representatives and the Senate I have been receiving an enormous number of letters from various people and associations indicating that if I vote one way they will not be voting for me at the next election. Others have indicated that if I vote the other way they will not be voting for me at that election. As I am not altogether a genius in the field of mathematics, I have lost count. I am therefore relying upon a future rearrangement of boundaries, or something like that, to make sure that the component is kept at a relative level. But I am not wholly concerned about the matter. I hold the view that many people who write these letters are quite ill informed about the way in which the Parliament works. I have yet to meet anyone in this place who would have his mind, his honour and his intellectual integrity suborned in that base manner. 
I want to change the subject before the chamber this evening by making reference to a war memorial to be erected in the near future in Crete. I understand that the Minister at the table, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  is familiar with this subject, as I brought it to the attention of the Government late last year when it was suggested to me that Major-General Ian Campbell, who fought with the Australian 6th Division in Crete, ought to be encouraged to take a group of Australians to that island where the memorial is to be completed shortly. The Australian 6th Division, it will be recalled, during the period of April and May 1941 fought against the German paratrooper divisions which were sent from Greece and in actions which were fought at the aerodromes at Heraklion and Retimo. Great honour and distinction was won for the Australian Army at that time. 
I am hopeful that the Australian Government will be prepared to make an announcement in the near future that in support of recognition of this war memorial overseas it will do something to encourage Australians to be present at its dedication, particularly those who, during their period of service, were involved in the Mediterranean campaign. At this time, in the light of these discussions, I thought it also appropriate to make reference to the splendid work which has been done on the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial by a former member of this Parliament. I refer to a former member for Henry who, if I remember correctly, was member for Henty in 1945, prior to the elections of 1946 and from that election to the end of the Twentyfirst Parliament in 1954. 1 refer of course to  Mr H.  B. S. Gullett who was the chief Government Whip during the Nineteenth, Twentieth and Twenty-first Parliaments of this Commonwealth. I was privileged to be here during the first 2 of those Parliaments. He will be remembered not only for his military service but also for his distinguished service in this House. There must be at least some members of the Government who will remember him, I am quite sure. 
I point out that in the most recent report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial, the terms of appointment of LieutenantGeneral  Sir Edmund  Herring and  Mr H.  B. S. Gullett were referred to. The Board warmly acknowledged the distinguished contributions of both  Sir Edmund  Herring and  Mr Gullett  to the advancement of the War Memorial.  Sir Edmund  had served the Board for 30 years and was  chairman  for 15 years.  Mr Gullett  was appointed to the Board in 1963. He became  chairman  of the Executive and Finance Committee in 1 969 and was active on all committees of the Board. Both of these trustees had seen distinguished wartime service,  Sir Edmund  as an artillery officer, as is well known, during the first World War and as a senior artillery commander and divisional and corps commander during the second World War. 

 Mr H. B. S. Gullett served as an infantry noncommissioned officer and officer rising ultimately to the rank of major and winning the Military Cross with long front line service during World War II in theatres of war in the Middle East, the Pacific and Europe. I feel that as the House of Representatives has some sort of historic interest in the work of its members and former members that it is most worthy for me to record these few words this evening on behalf of my friend,  Mr Gullett,  and also to point out that another former member of the House of Representatives, the former member for Port Adelaide,  Mr Fred  Birrell, who served in the Royal Australian Air Force during World War II has also been appointed to the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial. 
Whilst I appreciate that I cannot make direct reference to the legislation which was before the House prior to the adjournment being moved, I did feel that I ought to refer to the work of people engaged in civil aviation. I hope that on future occasions recognition will be made of the work of people with the Qantas organisation, Guinea Airways and with Carpenters Airways in particular in areas like Papua New Guinea where tremendous contributions were made in the war period by the civil airlines. Similar contributions were made also in Korea and of course in the Vietnam campaign in recent years. Those contributions are not fully understood because the service has not been sensational or theatrical, so to speak but it has been real and vital. I believe that when from time to time these matters come up for discussion in this Parliament it is proper that recognition should be made of the contributions by these people. If the Special Minister of State is to say something in reply, I hope that he will tell us of the progress of the memorial in Crete to which I referred earlier. As I am sure he would agree, it will be a memorial of a specific campaign in which Australians rendered outstanding fighting service. 
Will the Prime Minister confirm that he personally is the main architect of the Inter-State Commission Bill? Does he concur with the view that it is the most historic and far-reaching legislation designed to affect the Australian Constitution introduced into the House of Representatives in 40 years? Does he agree that the Inter-State Commission will oversee the Securities and Corporations Commission as well as action taken under the Trade Practices Act and many other Commonwealth Government functions? 
-In view of the shortness of the time available to me, I should like to revert to the economic argument that has been the main thread of the debate in the House of Representatives this evening. I refer to the statement by the Federal Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on Tuesday. He said: 
As long as by government expenditure we can employ people productively or assist in their employment in the private sector productively so that they produce as much as the expenditure is worth, there is no contribution to inflation. I will continue to ensure that unemployment does not remain in this country if anything the Government can do can remove it. 
He has challenged us to produce some proposals, some advice, some information, some policy concept which would be of help to the Government with its problems. I suggest that the Government immediately make provision for the write-off of new plant in its entirety in the year of its purchase or over such period as may be nominated by the company making the investment. As has been said again and again in this House over recent weeks and at the Labor Party's conference earlier this year, it is now fully recognised that the most vital thing to do is to stimulate the private sector, to get the people who are among the 250 000 unemployed off the unemployment list and back into employment that will be of value to Australia. 
Furthermore, the Government should introduce a system of depreciation allowance for the write-off of premises used in manufacturing. The reasons why this assistance is needed are simple and straightforward: Investment in new plant and equipment and new factory premises is at present at a very low level; urgent action is required through Government measures to stimulate private investment in manufacturing and this investment will not be undertaken unless the Government takes action to offset the current disincentives to the renewal of existing plant, expansion of existing manufacturing operations or the establishment of new ventures. 
Investment in Australia is not being undertaken by manufacturers for the following reasons: The economy is in a state of recession with a high level of unemployment. That has been fully admitted by almost everybody from both sides of this House who has spoken in this debate. Inflation and the expected high rate of inflation in the future have raised great uncertainties in the minds of manufacturers as to their capabilities of meeting competition in the Australian market from overseas goods and, secondly, of remaining competitive in export markets for the products which they are selling overseas. In undertaking feasibility studies to determine the viability of investment proposals, at this time companies are finding that the extremely high rate of interest payable on monies borrowed for such investment are rendering the propositions unprofitable and not worthy of serious consideration. 
Most companies have liquidity problems in Australia and are finding it difficult to generate within their companies or to borrow on the money market from the banks, including the merchant banks, the moneys required for their investment programs. In current circumstances and the existing provisions in relation to depreciation allowances, companies have not recovered from the Government their contribution through the taxation system, except over an extended period of time. In order to assist the cash flow of companies contemplating further investment in plant and buildings, the Government should, in view of all the circumstances existing at present, allow the investor the discretion of writing off the cost of his new investment against profits in the year of purchase of the equipment and buildings, etc., or alternatively, give the investor the discretionary powers to nominate the period over which he wishes the plant to be written off. Such provisions would aid the investors in a very real way and provide that very necessary stimulus to increase investment. Unless urgent action is taken by the Government right now to implement these measures it is certain that manufacturers will delay plant renewal and updating. This will be to the detriment of their efficiency and to their long term capability of operating in competition with overseas competitors. 
In the last minute or so available to me I remind honourable members of what was said by that distinguished member of the House of Representatives, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean).  He said that there would be $ 1,000m to be found between now and 30 June for the payment of company taxation. He said that this would reduce the fiduciary injection into the Australian economy from $3, 000m to $2,000m. Whilst this is the case, I must urgently bring to the attention of the Government the need to stimulate these manufacturers and companies so that they will be able to re-employ people, return to full operations and get the profits which will enable them to met this great company taxation bill which they will have to meet within the next 2 to 3 months. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I wish to make a few brief comments as this debate reaches its conclusion. The House is debating cognately the Social Services Bill 1 975 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. The principal  features of the Social  Services Bill are the substantial increases in the basic rates of pensions and benefits, the increase in additional payments for children, the implementation of the second step in the Government's program to abolish the means test on age pensions, provision for the payment of unemployment, sickness and special benefit weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrears and provision for the immediate payment of special benefit to persons newly discharged from gaol. 
The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill contains provisions which combine with those in the Social Services Bill. The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill authorises changes in the Repatriation Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The Bill provides for increases and other improvements in repatriation benefits foreshadowed in last year's Budget. It also authorises an increase in the war and defence widows pension fate. This is one of the aspects of the Budget of 1974-75 still in the mind of the Australian Government. It is one of the few left from the Budget of 1974-75 as so many of the policies that were expounded in that Budget have in fact been abandoned. 
I thought that it was worth while to make reference to some of these points that emerged in the speeches of 2 of our thoughtful members in the House of Representatives. I refer to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  for I detected on this occasion for the first time an awareness that seemed to express itself in terms of restriction of Government expenditure and of a realisation of the problems that we are facing in Australia. The Opposition supports this legislation. We are in favour of the concept of financial support by the Government for people who are in need in the community. But this legislation ought to be seen in the context of the Budget which must be introduced this year. In August of this year, the Government will have to introduce a Budget which will purport to deal with some of the enormous problems which are causing those in the Government today to think in terms of restricting the growth of Government expenditure. When that Budget is introduced we will understand whether there will be even the most remote possibility of returning to the contract to which my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  has been referring, and that was admitted into this Parliament in the form of a White Paper in 1945. 
The honourable member for Perth made it apparent that the Government, in his own judgment, had failed to make it clear to the Australian people that the whole standard of living had to be seen in the context of the national income. It must be seen in the context of what the country can afford. This is a very different line of argument for people who, to the best of my knowledge, have been arguing since 1949 when I first came into this place that it is within the capability of the Government of Australia to look after people from the cradle to the grave. In almost every election campaign that I can recall, the proud boast of the Australian Labor Party has always been that it would be able to outbid all members of other political parties in their attempts to influence the Australian people and to induce them to believe that the Commonwealth of Australia will be able to provide for aU of them from the cradle to the grave simply if they vote for the Australian Labor Party. 
I submit to you,  Mr Speaker,  that in the next 12 months in this country we will see problems arising which will make the problems of the last 12 months pale into insignificance. It is against that background that I believe we should look with great seriousness and good sense at these problems to which reference has been made not only by the honourable member for Perth but also by the honourable member for Barton. I would have imagined that the honourable member for Barton would have been, as much as any member of the Government, keenly in support of the announced pOliCY which was to the effect that the Government would pursue the abolition of the means test right through to people of the age of 65 and above, within the life of this Parliament. I very much doubt whether that will be done in the life of this Parliament or of the next Parliament. No matter what government sits on the Treasury bench, the fact of the matter is that when the economic truths are clear to the Aus.tralian people and when the degree of mismanagement, the degree of profligacy of the Australian Government over the last 2 years becomes known to the Australian people, there will be a great political retribution. 
It is understandable for people to have their expectations improving from year to year. I take the view that those expectations have been encouraged to a degree that is quite sad. In company with my friend from Lilley I hold the view that the problems which are coming up and which must be dealt with in the Budget for 1975-76 are problems which will affect the welfare of all Australians, and in their direct capacities they must be able to withstand the impact of the policies that will be introduced. 
A great deal has been said about taxation. Nothing is ever said about the diminution in the value of the dollars that are picked up. Those dollars, when they are received into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, are less and less able to do the things which they were able to do some years ago. No reference has been made, for example, to the savings of pensioners. I refer to people who are age pensioners, invalid pensioners and war widows. People such as these are now sitting back and looking at the sums of money that they have in the bank, and it is gradually dawning upon them that at this stage in the Australian society that money is losing its value at the rate of 1 6 per cent per annum. I think it was Professor Friedman who said recently that any government which stood up and said: 'Vote for us; we are going to put an insidious 16 per cent tax on all of your incomes ' would not get the vote of any person who could add up. I thank the House for the opportunity to make these brief comments on the measures before the House. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
MrWentworth-No. 
In Committee 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)-  Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the Bill as a whole? 
MrWentworth-No. 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Interpretation). 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to advise the House whether a visa has been granted to a member of the Palestine Liberation Organisation whose name is Gamal Omar El-Surani to visit Australia. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the issuing of the visa to this gentleman? 
-As ViceChairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the153rd report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave- The153rd report of the Public Accounts Committee is concerned with the Committee's inquiry into delays by Australian Government departments in occupying leased premises. The inquiry arose from repeated references in annual reports of the Auditor-General to significant amounts of avoidable expenditure being incurred by departments because of these delays. In its inquiry, the Committee took evidence from the Departments of Services and Property, Social Security, Labor, now the Department of Labor and Immigration, Overseas Trade, Transport and Civil Aviation, now the Department of Transport, and the Public Service Board. 
The evidence presented to the Committee showed clearly that delays had occurred in the occupation of leased premises which could have been avoided or lessened by a better coordinated effort by the principal departments. The evidence also showed that, at the time of the inquiry, there was a large degree of confusion and disagreement among the principal departments involved and that the procedures then in operation were not capable of coping with demands placed on them either in the normal course of events or when unusual pressures or circumstances arose. 
The Committee has recommended that the existing interdepartmental committee comprising the Departments of Services and Property, Housing and Construction, the Treasury and the Public Service Board should as a matter of urgency complete its deliberations on the roles of the principal departments and should produce a set of recommendations covering all aspects of leasing and occupying office accommodation. The Committee has recommended also that where substantial expenditure is involved in the leasing of privately owned office accommodation by the Australian Government on behalf of a department or group of Departments or where changes are planned to existing occupants of already leased premises, an interdepartmental committee should be established immediately comprising representatives from the principal departments, the Public Service Board and the client departments. The Committee has proposed that the interdepartmental committee should carry out certain functions and should be chaired by an officer specifically appointed to coordinate a particular project or projects. 
Other recommendations made by the Committee in this report included a proposal that the Department of Services and Property should carry out regular reviews of future accommodation requirements of departments and should sponsor such matters as the fitting out of leased buildings and place all requests for funds for consequential works directly with the Treasury. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-In the last few moments before we adjourn this evening I seek the co-operation of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to allow me to bring before the House a matter of great significance to this House and to the whole Parliament of Australia. I refer to the present position in the Council of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. I ask the Minister to bring to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  the need for this Parliament to be informed at the earliest opportunity of the degree of complaint which may be lodged with the Council of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in relation to Australian Government policy vis-a-vis certain countries which are part of the Association of South-East Asian Nations and which are well known to the Minister. I ask him to do this because of circumstances which, in my judgment, are profoundly important to the welfare and reputation of this country in the South-East Asian area. 
I hold the view,  Mr Speaker,  and I am sure you concur with me, that this is an issue which ought to be brought constantly before the House of Representatives and the Senate. In light of the circumstances which have been referred to in the Press and on radio- the media as I believe it is referred to in better circles- I hope that something will be said to the Parliament. We should understand just what is happening, what the complaints are and the reasons for the complaints against the policy. It is my hope that the Minister will be kind enough to bring this matter to the attention of the Prime Minister. I point out that my reason for speaking on the adjournment tonight,  Mr Speaker,  is your generosity to me recently during question time. I acknowledge the fact that I probably will not be entitled to another question before Christmas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-As ViceChairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the one hundred and fiftyfourth and one hundred and fifty-fifth reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-As Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts I present the 156th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement 
-I wish to make one or two comments about the speech which has just been delivered by my old friend, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who was a member of the House of Representatives in 1949 when I was first elected to the House. I have listened to some fascinating speeches since then. I must say that his speech tonight was the most amazing tirade I have heard. It was largely complaint. It was fundamentally bereft of any intellectual integrity. It was utter bunkum, if I may use a rather famous Aboriginal word. 
The fact is that my friends in the Australian Labor Party are complaining about the electoral processes of Australia because they know they will be beaten at the next poll. If they genuinely believed that there was any hope in the world of their winning an election there would not be one word of complaint. They know that the economic circumstances have created the environment in Australia which make it absolutely essential that there be an election. If the people of Australia are prepared to support them, the people will put them back. If the people do that, may the Lord have mercy upon them. There is no doubt that honourable members opposite are responsible for the state of the economy and the state of the nation at present. There are 250 000-odd people unemployed, 75 000 under training and an inflation rate of 18 per cent. Their Ministers have threatened their trade union colleagues with a reference to a 28 per cent inflation rate and 750 000 unemployed. Yet they cannot understand exactly what this means. It means terror to the ordinary people of Australia who understand that they have only one way open to them to save their destiny, and that is at the ballot box. 
Of course it is because they are frightened of defeat that words such as banditry are used. It is utter drivel. It is a manifestation of their terror and of their conviction that they will be defeated. They know they will be defeated. That is why they are complaining. In the parliamentary system there is an upper House and a lower House. 
In 1974, starting from nothing, the people of Australia had the right to put people into government here. They did that. They also put people into the Senate as a check and a balance. If honourable members opposite understood anything at all about the parliamentary system they would realise that the Senate is a check, a balance and a House of review. The reason for the existence of the Senate is to act as a check upon a government that needs to be checked. During the last three or four months people have been thrown out of the ministry for what is almost an absolute straightforward personal misdemeanor and dishonesty. Honourable members opposite know perfectly well that that is true. 
When that situation exists it is reasonable that the people of Australia ought to exercise their full responsibility, which is at the ballot box. The nearest approach to the current circumstances were those that existed in 1931 when 5 great socialist friends of honourable members opposite crossed the floor to vote with Latham to defeat the Scullin Government. The wheel of history is turning again. 
-Men like Eddie Ward, Sol Rosevear and Rowley James have been called rats. What a lovely expression when one is talking about members of Parliament who discharged their normal duty. The honourable member has the gall to refer to them tonight as rodents. I say that he is not really a member of the House of Representatives; he is simply a person who believes that he has some God-given Divine right to sit in this place. Nothing is further from the truth. The price of democracy is eternal vigilance. The real duty of the people of Australia is to get off their backsides, vote and get rid of these charlatans who are posturing as a government. They are barely worthy of the title 'honourable gentlemen'. That is the simple fact. The Senate will give the people of Australia that chance. The Senate does not sack the Government; it gives the people of Australia a chance to do it. The people of Australia will put the Government up in the air like an Australian football and kick it out into the middle of the Pacific Ocean, and that is where the Government belongs. 
My question is addressed without notice and with reluctance to the Prime Minister of Australia. It relates to the statements by the Minister for Transport involving the honourable member for New England. I ask the Prime Minister whether he would provide an itemised list of all gifts received, related to the service of the Government, by his Ministers of State and their families, having regard to the circumstances referred to by the Minister for Transport. 1 refer to himself, his family, and all the Ministers of State and their families. I am  quite sure the honourable gentleman will understand exactly what I mean. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Having regard to criticisms in the House relating to gifts to Ministers of State and their families, and his reply to my question without notice on 30 October 1975 (Hansard, page 2645) will he provide an itemised list of all gifts received as a result of Government service by all Ministers and former Ministers. 
-I ask leave of the House to present the report of the Australian Delegation to the 62nd Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference held at London between 4 and 12 September 1975, to move that the paper be printed and to make a short statement in connection with the conference. 
I rise to support Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). I remind the House that m these Bills the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has asked the Parliament to appropriate moneys additional to those appropriated under Appropriation Act (No. 1) and Appropriation Act (No. 2) of 1975-76 totalling in ail $506,201,000. Of this total, $344,430,000 is sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $161,771,000 is sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 4). The Bills seek parliamentary authority to make payments under specified heads of expenditure, the need for which has arisen since the Budget was prepared. The appropriations provided in Appropriations Act (No. 1) and Appropriations Act (No. 2) were insufficient for some purposes. Provision is also being made for moneys to be appropriated under heads of expenditure for which no provision was made in those Acts. 
The amounts included in the Bills are needed to meet the commitments made by the former Government as well as commitments made for essential and unavoidable expenses under the authority of the present Government. While it is necessary to provide further appropriations to meet certain expenditures which we consider to be inescapable, I am pleased to be able to say that the savings, as the Treasurer has advised us, under other annual appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, are expected to total $478.2m. From that basis the debate has ranged very widely. I had intended to devote my speech or as much of it as was available to me, having regard to the circumstances of the moment, to a discussion of the economic policies of the Government and the circumstances which have led to the development of those policies during the last 3 years. 
In view of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  just before the sitting was suspended for dinner and having regard to the circumstances at this time, I would like to begin by dissociating myself from any of the comments that the honourable gentleman has made concerning the late  Senator the Hon. Sir Shane  Paltridge. I feel quite sure that there are many members of the Australian Labor Party, both in this place and in another place, who would like to see exactly the same thing, particularly if they knew the late senator during the many years of his long and meritorious service in this Parliament. In those circumstances, I felt that at the very beginning of the debate I would speak to it. I understand that members of the Labor Party have done the same thing. 
Debate interrupted. 
I am resuming this debate from when this matter was last before the House about 10 days ago, when I spoke for some 4 minutes. As there has been this break of more than a week I return to the introductory speech made on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the distinguished member who is the shadow Treasurer. He will be responsible for the Opposition's main economic speeches and statements of policy during these next several years prior to the next general election. Having regard to the background of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  I am most interested in some of the comments that the honourable member for Adelaide made. I ought to explain this by saying that it is well known in this House that the honourable member for Werriwa, the Leader of the Opposition, is a man very interested in history. He is extremely interested in European history. 
People may recall that on the defeat of the McMahon Government in 1972, on 2 December on that year, the now Leader of the Opposition was heard to announce to the spellbound people of Australia that this was a great anniversary. It was the anniversary of the Battle of Austerlitz, when a distinguished Corsian general masquerading as a French emperor inflicted enormous casualties upon the armies of Russia, Prussia and Austria. Here was this manifestation of the Leader's intense interest in European history, in the use of an historical reference that would impress those people in our country less familiar with the details of European history than the honourable gentleman is. I find that the most reliable form of praise is imitation. The future Treasurer of a Labor Government is using words in the opening speech on a debate of this nature that I can only describe as rather crass and, to my mind, a little absurd. He said: 
In opening this debate on these 2 Appropriation Bills, I am bound to mention the occasion when Appropriation Bills were last before this Parliament. I am referring of course to Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) which eventually were passed by the Senate, after a damaging delay, on that infamous  coup d'etat  day, 1 1 November 1975. 
I am hoping that the honourable member for Adelaide will go back to his history teacher, the Leader of the Opposition, and ask him to be painstaking, to be serious in his revelation of his knowledge of history and to tell him of the last occasion when what is called a  coup d'etat  in the French language was followed within a period of 4 weeks by a general election. Here is a clear manifestation of the Labor Party technique, bereft of integrity as it is, unencumbered by conscience, as is well known, of describing events in dramatic terms which are the grossest misrepresentations. 
It was utter drivel for those honourable gentlemen to refer to the events of last November as a  coup d'etat.  It was in fact a judgment that resulted in the Constitution of Australia functioning properly, functioning so as to permit the electors of Australia, at an appropriate time, there having been a block- a complete confrontation between the Senate and the House of Representatives- to make up their minds and to cast their decision. There is nothing further from the truth than the words of the Australian Labor Party speakers who describe that series of events as a  coup d'etat.  In fact when that French emperor of whom the Leader of the Opposition is so keen to speak found himself in a situation where he was to be elevated from the position of consul-general or something of that nature and to be crowned an emperor, he was rather like the Leader of the Opposition, so fascinated with power that, to the amazement of all present, from the hands of the Pope he grabbed the crown and put it on his own head. I cannot help feeling in this context that on those occasions when the Leader of the Opposition was addressing the rowdy people who had surrounded him on 1 1 November he rather felt in those circumstances that he had been crowned and had lost the crown. A further statement that was made by the  speaker  leading for the Opposition, the honourable member for Adelaide, was this: 
The stark fact is that a parliamentary democracy anywhere is a system which requires tolerance on the part of those operating it if it is to survive. 
I would have thought that the history of parliamentary democracy over the last five or six hundred years in the countries that speak the English language or the French language has proved that that statement historically is utterly wrong. In fact, parliamentary democracy has survived in circumstances of conflict, where in the United Kingdom a king had his head chopped off and in the United States of America, as it became on the North American continent, colonists were prepared to rise in rebellion and establish themselves as people prepared to operate the parliamentary system as they saw it. 
There is no evidence that parliamentary democracy is a fragile system. The honourable member for Adelaide said that it is a fickle flower and a fragile mechanism. If the Labor Party had any real reasons for complaint it might be kind enough to explain after these extraordinary words at this extraordinary opening of this debate why it has in its platform a portion which states that its aim is to destroy the Senate, to take away from the States the right of representation in a house in which all the States are equal. Why should the Labor Party do such a thing? Is its ambition to concentrate all power in the House of Representatives, to destroy the Constitution? This has again and again been made clear by the Leader of the Opposition and appears to be confirmed by the Opposition's future Treasurer in so many of his comments. 
I hope that his reference to codifying the Constitution and making it clear to the Australian people will be looked at by the Government and that it will not be possible for those pseudo great men, interpreters of the Constitution who wish to misrepresent the facts, to put the GovernorGeneral into a position where his situation is falsified. The fact of the matter is that, in spite of these complaints, the Governor-General personally was appointed by the Labor Party Government, and the speech that was made on his appointment by the Labor Party's Prime Minister, the honourable member for Werriwa, was full of praise. When that jurist came to a conclusion that he had reached the stage at which a decision had to be made that the question would be put to the Australian people so that they could make their decision, he made it because he had no alternative. This constant barrage and attack, fostered within the ranks of those who espouse socialism and the brotherhood of mankind, that has followed the Governor-General around this community in the last 6 months has been disgraceful in the extreme and by no means anything of which the Opposition as a political party should be proud. 
I turn now to some of the other comments that have been made that have aroused great interest in this debate and in particular to the comments of my colleague and friend from Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I believe that there ought to be a statement from the Treasurer of Australia  (Mr Lynch)  dealing with this particular matter. I refer to the reference of the honourable member for Mackellar to the deficit as set out by the Treasury, to the deficit as admitted by the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in the Labor Party Government, the deficit which has excited so much concern in Australia. The honourable member for Mackellar said that the effective deficit as at the end of March was not the $4.95 billion of which the Treasury speaks; in terms of the use of central bank credit it was $ 1 . 1 90 billion. We use that word 'billion' in the American fashion, as representing one thousand million dollars. He said that even this deficit is mythical because if one looks at the last Treasurer's statement one will see that on his estimates no less than $4.8 billion worth of capital works were included in the Federal Budget and charged in as part of this mythical deficit. I believe that this ought to be clarified for the House of Representatives and that there ought to be a serious statement so that we can have at least some criticism from my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who was Treasurer some time ago, or some explanation how it is that these investments can be so included if they are going in fact to affect what we call the domestic deficit. Then someone might explain- I do not think one would need Professor Friedman to help onehow inflation has so grown in Australia that we have a resultant diminution in the value of all of the assets of our people, of all those people who have worked for decades, for 20 or 30 years or more and who are watching their assets being diminished in Australia at more than 10 per cent per annum. They are aware of the fact that all the contributions that they have put away to help them in their years of retirement are diminishing in value at that rate. Surely it must be possible for these points to be clarified. I think it is essential that it be done because I think that it is an impossible situation that we should find the integrity of the Treasury advisers to the Government being questioned in the House of Representatives with no recognition from the Ministers of State that this is taking place. 
I can recall the comments that were made during the Budget Speech of my friend from Melbourne Ports when he referred to the fact- 1 think it was in 1973- that it was an appropriate time for a transfer of assets from the private to the public sector. I believe that was what he said. There is another way that one can transfer assets from one sector to another sector. It does involve one with trouble with the police. It is called stealing. One moves into someone's home and says: 'I am transferring from your sector some assets to another sector which will be under my control'. In fact this is what Treasurers do when they take from people who live in this country assets which in fact are theirs, that they have spent a lifetime developing and accumulating, and transfer them to what is airily known as the public sector. Then we are told by someone with a very flexible mind and a very flexible sense of the truth that this means that the assets of the entire country- of all people living within the country- have been expanded by this transference from the private to the public sector. I have yet to meet the Australian citizen who can tell me that anything transferred from his sector to some government-owned, controlled and directed sector ever finds its way back to him. I do not believe it does. 
I believe, as I said at the commencement of my remarks, that honourable gentlemen opposite stand charged with having engaged in an extraordinary debate on economic matters in which they devoted an enormous amount of time to vituperative, impertinent and out of order references to the Queen's Representative in Australiatheir own appointment in any event. History will record that the honourable gentleman who was prepared to worship the victory of the Emperor Napoleon on 2 December 1 806 at Austerlitz was a conqueror who put his foot in a hole and fell flat on his face, where he properly belongs. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is able to define for the House his decisions about the future of the cadet corps of the armed forces and its relationship to schools throughout Australia. 
-It is my privilege this evening on behalf of the organisation known as the Friends of the Australian Opera to bring before the Parliament the problems of the Australian Opera Company. I would like the Parliament to know that there is great distress at the seriousness of the financial position of the Australian Opera Company. I wish to bring attention to the urgent need for immediate action to avoid jeopardising the future of what has become a major national institution in the relatively short period of 20 years. We may feel here in Australia that we are unable to afford an opera company at this stage. If that is the case I think we ought to consider the fact that this may well mean that we will never have a viable opera company. Twenty years ago numerous 
Australian singers had to go overseas to gain fulltime employment as singers. They could obtain only three or four months employment in a year in Australia at that stage. Many of these singers, as honourable members would know, have attained world renown and some have now returned to the Australian Opera Company because they want to live in Australia and to sing on a professional and full-time basis. With the present structure of the Opera Company these would be reasonable expectations for these internationally famous Australians to hold. If the Opera Company should now have to revert to part-time activity many of these singers will have no choice but to return overseas. I can well foresee that if this occurs they will never again accept a contract in Australia as their expectations at this stage in 1976 have been so very much disappointed. 
I would like to bring to the attention of the House of Representatives a number of points in relation to this matter. The Australian Opera experienced an increase of 4S.8 per cent in ticket sales between 1970 and 1976, a rise from 224 900 to 328 000 paid attendances. In addition to this, all Australians have the opportunity of enjoying the Company's work through radio and television broadcasts of its performances. Its subsidy level is drastically below subsidies generally received by overseas opera companies. In Australia it is approximately 42 per cent of expenditure, and generally in Europe these figures are as high as 80 per cent in countries where opera companies have been established over a long period. 
The Australian Opera Company is an ensemble company that carries a responsibility for long-term employment for most of Australia's finest artists in the field of opera. Their continuity of employment ought not to be jeopardised, nor should we allow them to be lost to overseas companies. The 12 musicians recently dismissed from the Elizabethan Sydney Orchestra have had to be employed by the Australian Opera Company, since it is impossible to present opera to the standard which we now expect from the company with an insufficient number of players. This employment has placed an additional financial burden on our Opera Company. In spite of the small number of opera productions it holds in stock because of its short history, the Australian Opera spends much less each year on new productions than do most of the overseas companies. 
I bring this matter to the attention of the House in the hope that it will be brought to the attention of the Government and that in due course we in Australia can look forward with pride to the sustenance, development and further progress of the great Australian company. I know that there are many people in Sydney now who have come from other parts of Australia to watch the opera in the Sydney Opera House. As the company travels around the other capital cities, many Australians have the opportunity to enjoy the wonderful professional performance of artists like Joan Sutherland who is, of course, internationally known, and others of whom all Australians including, I am sure, all members on both sides of the House are very proud. 
-I rise to support the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and his Budget, and I will vote to oppose the amendment put forward by the Opposition. The Treasurer has stated in his Budget Speech that when the people of Australia voted at the election held on 13 December 1975 the national economy was suffering from inflation, stagnation and unemployment, that Australia was locked into its most serious postwar recession, and that at that time there were people who were pondering whether we were facing historical developments that would be seen to be similar to the fearful economic circumstances of the 1930s. During the period 1972 to 1975 we had a Labor Party government led by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  As my colleagues have said, during the period 197 1 and 1972 there were many criticisms from the Labor Party leaders about the budgets of the Liberal and Country Party governments which had been in office from 1949 to that period. There had been occasions during that period when the leaders of the Labor Party had made the most tremendous offers to the Australian voters in the hope of gaining their support. 
I can well remember a former honourable member for Barton, the late  Dr H.  V. Evatt, during the election campaigns in 1954 and 1955 talking about the need for Australians to spend vast sums of money on social welfare and decrying the standards of education in the community. So when the Labor Party came to office at the end of 1972 it was not surprising to find in the next 2 budgets of 1973 and 1974 an expression of these opinions and a manifestation of the Labor Party's desire to bring largesse- to take from the rich and to give the poor, so to speak, enormous assets, sums of money, to improve the standard of living of the average Australian. In the manner in which the words were uttered there was some sort of an association with people having the right to vote and the reasons for making those utterances which will not escape the attention of the House. 
I well remember the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who has been in the House most of the time, using in 1973 phrases like this: 'Now is the time for us to consider the transfer of assets from the private to the public sector'. I well remember the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition, telling the House of Representatives that in his view it was eminently proper that the Commonwealth Government should use the Public Service as a pace-setter for wages and conditions. That the Labor Party Government set out to do, and the impact upon the Australian economy and upon the welfare of the people in Australia was inevitable. The members of the Labor Party knew it was inevitable, and gradually it penetrated the adamantine crust. 
Finally in 1974 my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, whose program of economic development in Australia and whose political programs were having such an appalling effect, was robbed of his power and his position as Treasurer of Australia. He was replaced, we will recall, by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  After a relatively short period he was replaced by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who in his 1975 Budget was struggling to cope with the circumstances which then prevailed, and the main responsibility for creating those circumstances has to be carried by the Labor Party and its leaders. After all, it is of no real satisfaction to point at influences from overseas and to blame them for the circumstances which prevailed at that time. The responsibility lies with the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, its Prime Minister and its Cabinet. One could quote the words of the late  President  Harry Truman. He said: 'The buck stops here'. That was the position in relation to the former Government. 
By the end of 1974, as I have said, the misery and the tragedy of the results of Labor Party policies were becoming clear to the Prime Minister of the day and to his colleagues. So decisions were taken which were dramatic, theatrical and unprecedented. We do not know too much about those decisions because it has been necessary for people who took part in them to be very careful and security minded about what those decisions were. We know, because reference has been made to it by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  that he at least had his interest excited, and he understood that the Utah company, an American-Australian international mining company, appeared to have something to do with a gentleman whom we have seen referred to as a financier, a gentleman from the Levant whose name was Tirath Khemlani. I am told by the honourable member for Chifley that this international company had something to do with the activities of that distinguished financier. I recall that in this House distinguished members of the Labor Government, when questioned about those rather unusual circumstances, protested that their representatives overseas were of the highest calibre. They said those representatives were people who were well and favourably known in London to the financial advisers of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government as well as the Government of the honourable member for Werriwa. I think that there would be some of the members of the Labor Party who could confirm what I have been saying. 
A sum of $4,000m was to be borrowed from sources not clearly defined and never yet truly admitted. It was generally accepted that it was to come from Middle East countries. One is led to believe that they were probably in the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. An Executive Council minute of December 1974 was used as a basis for the authority to secure this mammoth loan. I raise this matter because the honourable member for Chifley brought it up in the most startling manner, with a most unusual reference to this Australian-American company. When this matter was explored to the degree to which it was explored, it appeared that other businessmen not associated with finance were involved. Apparently people from Adelaide who were described rather quaintly as friends of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  were responsible for an association which eventually involved the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  How this extraordinary event could have taken place without the knowledge of the honourable member for Werriwa and his close associates, such as the distinguished Treasurer of the day, the honourable member for Lalor, I find hard to understand, but the fact is that a proposal was being investigated and a decision had been made that was going to involve the government of the Commonwealth of Australia in overseas borrowings unparallelled and unprecedented in our history. The borrowings were so vast in fact that had they been successful it may have been possible for the honourable gentleman and his colleagues to have ignored this Parliament in terms of public expenditure. This would have created a set of circumstances that no rational person could possibly tolerate. The references in Hansard to the gentleman,  Mr Khemlani,  referred to by the honourable member for Cunningham who was the Minister for Minerals and Energy at the time and by the then Prime Minister, make no reference to the Utah company at all. This appears to be some extra information that the honourable member for Chifley has acquired as a result of further, perhaps clandestine, examination of the matter. 
I compliment the Government and the Treasurer upon the Budget. This is the first time for such a long time that I have sat in this place and not heard taxes put on to the beer, for example, of the working man, the wine for South Australian people, various liquors, cigarettes, motor cars, and other goods, and I do think that one ought to congratulate the Treasurer. I was here when  Sir Arthur  Fadden delivered the famous Budget in 195 1 which did such appalling things to these products that are relatively important in our community. I recall the old and distinguished right honourable Treasurer returning to this place and announcing that he had had a most successful political meeting in his electorate but it had been held in a telephone booth. One had rather expected that this type of problem would have been with us after the Budget of 17 August. I am delighted that it is not. 
I would like to refer to some of the points that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  made in this extraordinary attack upon the commercial world. He seems to have forgotten that in the period prior to the election in 1975 his leader and certainly the honourable member for Oxley were making comments which indicated that they understood that three-quarters of all the employment in Australia is provided by private enterprise. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I think, has been on the record at a time when what he said was important and significant as saying that if people were to press for wage increases they should bear in mind that if they succeeded with this process it would simply lead to unemployment for other people. The picture emerged of those who were significant, powerful trade union people in large numbers being greedy and committing to nothing those who were absolutely dependent upon unemployment relief. 
These senior members of that Party are the people who made such statements as: 'One man 's price rise is another man 's job '. That is the sort of remark that one heard from the distinguished accountant, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Surely it must be understood by socialists that, in an economy such as ours, they cannot possibly have absolute and complete control of the economy if private enterprise is providing 75 per cent of all the employment. Why is there thus mama for killing the goose that laid the golden egg? It is absolutely beyond my comprehension and I think it is quite absurd. 
The references that were made by honourable members to the mining companies ought to be dealt with too. What the honourable member for Chifley described as a golden handout was quite startling. The fact is that Australia after oil was discovered in 1954 had a tremendous boost in interest and endeavour. It took 4 years to convince the late  Sir Harold  Raggatt and the late  Sir William  Spooner that it would be in the interests of Australia if there was public encouragement given to people, to the taxpayers in the country, to take an interest in the development of this industry. At the end of the 4 years, when taxation deductions were made available to people, there was a real boost in the industry and an infrastructure was created between 1958-59 and 1970 which has brought Australia very considerably towards two-thirds self-sufficiency in petroleum. 
The great mining industries that were in existence beforehand, the Mount Isa's where people had to invest for 23 years with no return, between 1923 and 1948, were certainly international investments when they first began but they are no longer international investments. There is a great deal of Australian participation. Encouragement of this industry is vital. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will find it possible in the very near future to return to the style of encouragement that will allow the ordinary Australian to take part in the development of his country. 
In my view the harm that was done in 3 years by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  as a minister is beyond belief. The very infrastructure was destroyed. The young mengraduates in science or palaeontology- from cities such as Adelaide are now working in the Philippines, Indonesia and other parts of the world. These people have left Australian companies that have been absolutely destroyed because the Labor Government held up all the arrangements that had been undertaken by the Liberal-Country Party Government in relation to permits to explore, permits to produce and in relation to leases. It was an incredible performance, utterly bereft of integrity, devoid of intelligence and a manifestation of a incredibly arrogant attitude towards business people who are after all in a very risky, speculative field. It was absolutely absurd; most reprehensible. Finally, that same honourable member even ran foul of his own leader in the Labor Party and I remember him sitting in the chamber looking most morose and cantankerous. 
I had hoped I would have sufficient time to make a few comments about defence matters, but I am afraid my time has been cut rather short. However, I want to point out that one aspect of the Budget that is worth while drawing to the attention of the House is the way in which Australia helps the friendly countries in our region of immediate interest. The estimated expenditure of $23.9m includes $6.9m as part of our commitment to Indonesia. As honourable members will know, we are helping the Indonesian Government in aviation and we are providing assistance with other technical equipment. The Indonesian Government believes that it should be capable of protecting its country. This also applies to Malaysia, Thailand, Fiji and Singapore. All these things are a manifestation of friendship. They are testimony to the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who is sitting at the table, and his colleagues are well and favourably thought of in these countries. We are looked upon as a friendly country, but if there is a great conflict in this world we will then find out that we are very much on our own and dependent upon our own capacity to defend ourselves because if that does come about the people who decry concern about the presence of Russian vessels in the Indian Ocean will find out very quickly how significant it is. I can assure honourable members from experience of years ago that this sort of threat to trade lines has a vital effect on welfare of the nation. 
I address my question to the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the Australian Government is secretly selling out the rights of the people of East Timor by arranging the delivery of further military aid to Indonesia in the form of patrol boats? I understand that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition stated: 
By giving the Indonesians patrol boats that could be used for military purposes and against the Timorese people, the Government is not only in complicity with Indonesia 's illegal invasion of East Timor but can now be regarded as actively encouraging this unprovoked Indonesian aggression. 
Will the Minister inform the House whether he regards the statement of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition as being at all accurate? 
Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs, during his recent visit to Europe, have official discussions with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Supreme Commander, General Alexander Haig, and the SecretaryGeneral of NATO? Bearing in mind our association with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, I ask: Is there any likelihood of a more formal association between Australia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation? 
-I want to make some comments on the estimates for the Department of Science and take up some of the points brought forward by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who has led for the Opposition in this debate. I was interested in his comments about the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and his reference to events that were made public when he was the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Labor Government. He referred to the integrity of research scientists and their work and to what they obviously believed was political influence. Speaking generally, he made the comment that he detected a distrust of bureaucracy. I suggest to him that this distrust of bureaucracy should perhaps better be expressed as a distrust of political influence. I think that where socialists are in command of government there is a far greater intrusion of politics into scientific programs than in countries which are generally accepted by definition as democratic nations. I believe that if one takes the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as the classic illustration one will see enormous evidence of political influence in that nation. This is also evident in the People's Republic of China and in similar countries. I believe that the reference by the honourable member to this matter stems from the fact that the leaders of the CSIRO took the view that the Labor Government was seeking to impose upon them certain restrictions and influences which they regarded as improper. I thought it was made clear to the interested public at that time that this was a resentment of political intrusion. 
The honourable member for Cunningham also referred to nuclear policies and to the problems that Australia faces in future in relation to fuels for energy. He referred to the Bureau of Mineral Resources. He told the Committee that one of the things that impressed him at the time of becoming the Minister was the way in which overseas companies coming to Australia made it clear to him that they were very surprised that information which they believed should have been classified was made freely available to them. This may have been the case when he was the Minister but I suggest to him that until 1 972 no specialised information- geophysical, geological or other scientific information- provided for the Australian Department of National Resources or the Bureau of Mineral Resources by a particular company acting under a Permit to Explore a lease or a licence issued by the Commonwealth Government was revealed by the Bureau or the Minister unless the company had acknowledged that this was a reasonable proposition. The company was considered. I can remember a situation in the 1960s that involved the Western Australian Petroleum Company. Evidence was taken from the company at that time and certain complaints were considered which the company wanted to have discussed before information it had given to the Bureau a decade before was revealed. As it turned out, in the long run it was in Australia's interests that people who were  seeking to  further programs of development should have available to them prior information even if it was a decade old and rather obsolete in order that they could consider their own programs. At that time this was done. But the fact remains that Australia has never taken confidential information from overseas companies in Australia and made it freely available without any question of confirmation from the company that provided the information, without ministerial consent or without the company agreeing to this being done. Naturally enough, the National Mapping Council and organisations which provide general facilities provide them for all who operate within the country. To the best of my knowledge, since my association with these organisations for the last 25 years or so, this has been the case. 
I will make a few comments on the references to nuclear energy. Some of the words of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  are germane to this. I believe that in debating the estimates of the Department of Science we should say something about the appalling effect in the community of the gross misrepresentation at the present time, and the guessing about the future effect of nuclear energy on the environment. I am firmly convinced that when the 170 nuclear stations which are being built around the world today are functioning properly they will provide more and more power for people all over the world. From that power, that energy, will come the resources that will uplift the large sections of humanity which today are depressed. I think there is no other way in which the living standards of these people will be elevated. In my opinion this gross misrepresentation does Australia little good. References to future threats to the environment and to genetic effects ought to be considerations for the future. When one considers the programs for the development of nuclear energy, and even the testing of nuclear weapons, in the People's Republic of China, for example, one must say that that country does not appear to have been terribly concerned about its own people living within the area of Lop Nor and in the northern sections of Mongolia. China does not seem to have been too concerned about the effect on the people of Japan. The Russians do not appear to have given too much attention or concern to the effect of their nuclear program upon the Chinese. After the French went away from the South Pacific we had the Australian Government of  Mr Whitlam  going through a series of most extraordinary political manoeuvres which could only be described as a sort of political comic opera. 
The fact of the matter is that whilst other nations are going to develop their nuclear capacity Australia is going to be hindered by people. One cannot help getting to the stage of wondering what are the motivations behind this line of conduct. The fact is that Australia will lag behind. If Australia does not have the ability to develop nuclear energy, in the future Australia will suffer unnecessarily. Most -people, including a number of leading Australian scientists, accept the view that within the next 40 or 50 years solar energy will be significant. Therefore I suggest that it is only in the next 40 or 50 years that Australia's nuclear capacity can be at its optimum in providing for the development of the country. 
I have put these views to the Committee in the hope that it will look at the Department of Science as a department that ought to be expanded and developed. I hope that in due course it will take medical research under its wing because I believe that that area of scientific development is one that can only be given a small amount of time and consideration within the Department of Health. Within an expanded Department of Science I believe that our medical research foundations would prosper and be of greater advantage to the Australian community. 

 Mr CONNOR (Cunningham)-Mr  Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Before the suspension of the sitting the Committee was discussing the estimates for the Department of Defence. We had heard an interesting speech from the spokesman on defence matters for the Australian Labor Party, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He referred to recent ministerial statements and to the attitude of the Labor Party to the defence programs that are reflected in this enormous commitment which is set out in the estimates. The figure for 1976-77 is $2,036,641,000. In 1975-76 the figure was $ 1,749,666,68 1. He talked about the general picture of the Australian strategic position and he put to the Committee a query about the future. He looked at the nations close to Australia. He asked a series of questions concerning technical capacity, economic strength and the ability to sustain an invasion force which he attempted to describe in the terms of the force under General Eisenhower which invaded Europe in 1 944. 1 believe that an appraisal of this nature is rather like an appraisal which one might have expected to hear in this place in 1929. At that time, before the great economic problems of the world burst with such fury upon Australia and other nations, the Government of  Mr Scullin  probably would have been unable to look ahead in similar terms and envisage the actual situation which faced Australia in 1939. 
I illustrate here the danger of making appreciations other than on a day to day check basis. It is impossible for Australia or any other country to look ahead in this circumstance and make decisions with the conviction that its assessments will be accurate. I wish to refer to the 1976 Alastair Buchan Memorial Lecture which was delivered by Henry Kissinger to the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London on 25 June 1976. For the benefit of the honourable member for Oxley and his colleagues I shall read one or two paragraphs from the speech so that it will be clear to them what is in the mind of the Foreign Minister of the country upon which so much depends.  Dr Kissinger  said: 
Our economies are the most prosperous on earth: our technology and productive genius have proven indispensable for all countries seeking to better the welfare of their peoples, be they socialist or developing. Our societies represent, more than ever, a beacon of hope to those who yearn for liberty and justice and progress. In no part of the world and under no other system do men live so well and in so much freedom. If performance is any criterion, the contest between freedom and Communism, of which so much was made three decades ago, has been won by the industrial democracies. 
I use that quotation because I believe that it is a fair enough description of the situation, at least on a superficial analysis, in Australia.  Dr Kissinger  went on to say: 
And yet at this precise moment we hear in our countries premonitions of decline, anxieties about the travail of the West and the advance of authoritarianism. Can it be that our deeper problems are not of resources but of will, not of power but of conception? 
We who overcame great dangers thirty years ago must not now paralyse ourselves with illusions of impotence. We have already initiated the construction of a new system of international relations, this time on a global scale; we must summon the determination to work towards it in unity and mutual confidence. 
That is the background. Whilst we look at our appreciation of the future we ought at the same time to look at some of the other problems which are not dealt with by the Department of Defence but which create an environment from which come other problems that are vital to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  The Minister knows that I refer to what is a subtle form of internal subversion. There has undoubtedly been a marked change that is evident in the media and in the universities. It is also evident in regard to the significant factor of nuclear energy which is of tremendous interest to our defence scientists. The change manifests itself in a denigration of the Services, in ar. attempt to undermine the nation's respect for the Services. It manifests itself in a denigration of ex-servicemen 's organisation, which have already made their contribution to the welfare and development of Australia. We must concern ourselves with this sort of internal problem as well as with the overall problem of looking at the cost of replacing equipment and at the issue, with which the Department of Defence must wrestle year after year, of providing in Australia the maximum degree of return for the investment that the Australian people through their Government will make in purchasing defence equipment for the armed forces. 
I suppose that the last comment I could make about the query of the honourable member for Oxley would be that if the events that were reflected in the phrase 'the domino theory' had begun to take place in the way desired by those who were responsible for the internal subversion of these other nations and if they had been successful, most Australians today would have an entirely different outlook on defence matters and a far greater sensitivity. I believe that that would apply to honourable members on both sides of the chamber. If the events in Indonesia in 196S had led to the PKI taking over Indonesia, Australia's outlook would now be different. 
Seven thousand to 10 000 insurgents led by Thai communist agents are moving from the IndoChinese peninsula within Thailand and creating circumstances which must be of great concern to the government in Bangkok. If Thailand goes, if the problems had not been overcome in Malaysia, and if Singapore were, as the distinguished Prime Minister of Singapore said some years ago, to go into the communist mincing machine, Australia's outlook would be an entirely different one. The question with which I hope honourable members opposite will wrestle is: How would they envisage Australia's future if this series of events came to pass within a decade? That, as I see it, is the problem for the future. 
Further to what has been said in this debate by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  I wish to read into the record tonight certain comments which have been made in the 1975-76 annual report of the Australian Industries Development Association. I regard the report as worthwhile and certainly as being desirable for consideration in this House. Under the heading Face Up To Employment Facts' the report states: 
Over recent years it has become fashionable in academic circles- the term includes the Universities, the Commonwealth Public Service and some journalist disciples- to scoff at the idea that protection of industry is necessary to maintain employment. This has been echoed by rural interests who see advantages in low-priced imported goods. 
People who argue that way have never put forward an acceptable proposition for an alternative to manufacturing industry as an employment base in Australia. Instead, there has been some suggestion that the future lies in mineral developments and the expansion of tertiary activities. 
No one has put forward an acceptable explanation of how minerals extraction and benefication could employ a lot of people. It has not been explained how tertiary activities could be maintained at present levels, let alone expanded, if manufacturing industry were seriously reduced. The nearest thing to such an explanation requires acceptance of an academic theory that almost the entire population could make a living selling each other insurance, serving each other meals, doing each others ' laundry, and so on. 
The Australian Industries Development Association does not believe this to be true. I doubt very much that many members of the Australian Labor Party in particular would believe the theory was true. The report continues: 
The case put forward by the opponents of industry protection is the theory that so-called 'high cost' activities, which they see as existing only in the manufacturing sector, must be curtailed or eliminated so that more economically desirable low cost' activities will have room to take their place and grow. These they do not identify in understandable terms. Recent experience has demonstrated that the dole is the replacement activity for most of the human resources subjected to the theory in practice. 
Rural spokesmen claim that the cost of protected industry is carried almost entirely by rural industries. They argue for elimination of manufacturing industries so that rural industry costs might be reduced by importing- an outcome that could in no way be guaranteed. They do not answer the employment question, nor the related question of the domestic market which is still highly important to much primary industry. 
Put simply the opponents of protection for manufacturing industry do not face the fact that if protected industry is wound down there will be little to take its place. It would be helpful if such people addressed their advocacy in some detail to their particular solution to the employment problem that would be created if anti-protection policies which they advocate were fully implemented. 
Among the questions about protection, therefore the most fundamental is- what amount of manufacturing industry is needed in order to provide a desirable level of employment in Australia? The test for protection is whether a particular industry is necessary to make up the required industrial structure. It is to these questions that the many parts of the Government machinery involved in protection policies should be addressing their energies. 
It should be borne in mind that as farm incomes have diminished over the years people, particularly young people, have been driven into the great urban sprawls. Unless work is available for them they will be unemployed. They will have no future at all. No rational Australian would want that sort of thing. 
-Has the Minister for Transport been informed of statements made during the Tasmanian election campaign by the Premier of Tasmania to the effect that if his Government is re-elected it will challenge the two airlines agreement in the High Court of Australia? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in last Saturday's  Australian  that a mainland company had contributed large sums of money to the Australian Labor Party in support of the challenge to the two airlines agreement, with the intention of establishing a third national domestic airline? Can the Minister inform this House whether there was any official communication on this important subject between  Mr Neilson  and himself prior to the opening of the Tasmanian election campaign? 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. It relates to the Minister's undertaking to provide the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with information about the contaminated debris buried at Maralinga in South Australia subsequent to the atomic tests there some 20 years ago. Is the Minister yet in a position to release this information? If so, can he inform the House of the results? 
I have sat in this chamber throughout the entire debate and have listened with a great deal of interest to my friends on both sides of the chamber expressing their views on this legislation which I intend to support. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has advised the House that after the proroguing of the Parliament and  Her  Majesty's opening of the Parliament on 8 March, he will introduce later in the year a new Bill which will contain the decisions of the Government in relation to the various matters that have been discussed during this debate. 
It has been recognised by the Labor spokesman, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  that this process will take place. Before I begin to refer to some of the matters about which he spoke, I would like to say that the Minister has made it clear that there will be a widespread opportunity for the general public to have its views considered before the Government reaches its final conclusion. I should have thought that there was ample evidence in the speeches that have been made in this House this afternoon and this evening that this has been true over quite a long period of time. I can find nothing, for example, in the Swanson report or in the last annual report of the Commission which leads me to believe that the people in the commercial world or the trade union world- I know that they are in some way connected with commerce and I indicate to the House that I have heard of a company called ACTU-Solo Pty Ltd and I am aware of their growing interest in commercial matters- have, in fact, been treated in an arrogant, domineering manner, in any manner that would justify the appalling comment made in an earlier speech that an image would emerge in government administration that would be reminiscent of the late Chancellor of Germany, Adolf Hitler. I really think that was an appalling reference. The Government seeks, and I have no doubt that it is basically accepted by members of this Parliament irrespective of what they may say, to act in the best interests of the majority of the people of Australia. 
The description of this legislation as 'ami trade unionism' is, in my judgment, quite wrong. It remains true, and I believe it would be accepted by the responsible members of the Opposition, that trade unions are expected by the people of Australia to act in the national interest. However, Australians are pragmatic and I think they have a great deal more native wit and ingenuity than many of us give them credit for. I think there is evidence of that, and with great respect to the Minister and some of my distinguished colleagues on the other side of the House, it ought to be seen that the legal profession should be well aware that that is the case. However, the Government recognises- I think most Australians do- that the trade unions are subject to that syndrome which has become fairly well known over recent years and which is known in the colloquial expression: 'Bless you, Jack. I'm allright'. At this time in this country with approximately 95 per cent of people gainfully employed, concerned and worried about inflation, approximately 5 per cent of the workforce are unemployed. 
The aim of this legislation is to contribute towards a set of circumstances that will allow the national economy to overcome the sickness of inflation, to become more competitive, to become more efficient and to do more for Australians who are prepared to do a reasonable day's work and achieve, in their own way, an advancement in their circumstances. These troubles, in my judgment, are much more profound today than they were when my old friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  introduced his first Budget as Treasurer of the Commonwealth in 1973. 1 recall the feeling I had in my heart. I shall remind the honourable member of the phrase that he used in his speech. He said that the time had arrived when we should begin transferring assets from the private to the public sector. 
-My friend says: 'Hear, hear! ' On a number of occasions I have indicated that this process of appropriation has contributed enormously to the sickness that we see in the national economy today and to the fact that 5 per cent of the work force, the bulk of whom honourable members opposite believe support them, are out of work because profit cannot provide jobs for them. I think honourable members opposite carry a great deal of responsibility in these matters. 
I turn now to some of the comments that were made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide who talked about the Government's problems within the economy. He talked about competition as being fundamental, in the conceptual sense, to the Act. He said that prices and profits cannot be ignored by companies. I say to him that prices and profits cannot be ignored by governments. If the Labor Party has learnt one lesson in recent years, surely it is that the vast majority of jobs in the community are provided from successful private enterprise and usefully employed people are the greatest national asset we can have. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide talked also about criticisms of trade unions and the Labor Party. He said that the trade unions and the Labor Party were separate in a very real sense. My friend the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  later in his speech made reference to this matter and pointed out that we have all been interested in the activities of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in his 2 roles, one as  President  of that Party and the other as the recognised and accepted trade union leader in Australia. I put it to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that he must have absolute contempt for the Australian people if he really believes that the great majority of them accept the view that when the  President  of his Party takes off his Labor Party cap and puts on his Australian Council of Trade Unions President's cap he becomes a different man. I say to the honourable member that that is an absurdity. I am certain that a great number of Australians who voted in December 1975 with great clarity to expel him and his colleagues from the Treasury bench did so because they wanted a change of government so that they could at least have government that they could understand, appreciate and respect. They do not have to like the Government. Governments do not have to be popular. Ministers of State do not need to be popular people. What they do need is respect. Honourable members opposite will not get back on to the benches on this side of the Parliament until they earn the respect of the Australian people. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  made an interesting speech. He talked about the Government's denial of adequate support for the Trade Practices Commission in terms of finance and staff. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he would be kind enough in due course to make a specific reply to the honourable member for Grayndler, because I can find no evidence of similar complaints in these reports that I have studied. I noted his comment that he thought that it was improper or wrong for the Commission to indicate that it anticipated the support of the Parliament. I do not believe that a commission of this description has displayed evidence that that has been part of its thinking. 
The honourable member for Grayndler also said that section 49 would be repealed without much support for such action being given by small business. All I can say is that I can find no evidence in the Swanson Committee report to support that proposition. I therefore say that if it is true that the repealing of section 49 will lead to small business associations complaining to the Government, no doubt the Minister will receive those complaints within the next few weeks. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  talked at great length about the trade unions being democratic. He talked about the right of people to band together to protect their interests, and he said that is how trade unions operated. But, he said, they were not corporations. I am prepared to accept in the terms of the law that trade unions are not corporations, but what I am not prepared to accept, and what I do not believe the majority of the people of Australia are prepared to accept, is that trade unions are bodies which, at the expense of the national interest, may further their own selfinterests. In fact, there are in the industrial world many disputes known as demarcation disputes, because, as I understand it, the 'Bless you Jack; I am all right' syndrome begins to operate and we find large trade unions endeavouring to deal with smaller trade unions, to take them over and to deny them their right to be exactly what the honourable member for Burke suggested they ought to be. So this internecine strife that we have seen has characterised the last several years, and the industrial record during the 3 years that the Labor Government was in power was worse than it had been for a very long time. 
In my judgment, this country is the most magnanimous in industrial issues. I know of no other people who have a greater magnanimity towards industrial issues than have Australians. I remind the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that that has been true for 50 years, because in 1927, which is 50 years ago, he may recall that a distinguished Prime Minister lost his seat because a couple of trade union fellows had been put in gaol. One of them was a member of this House when I first entered it in 1 950. He had been here for a very long time and he had been a Minister of State in the 18th Parliament under the then Prime Minister, the Rt  Hon  J. B. Chifley. In that respect, therefore, I feel that the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand were designed more for the consumption of some of his colleagues in the trade union world than they were a proper expression of his own judgment. 
The problem that emerged, as the honourable member for Gellibrand saw it, was as described in his words, the creation of 'the most vicious legislation'. He talked about the enormous fines. 
He talked about section 45D as though the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, for example, did not exist, as though there were no conciliation commissioners, as though people would automatically be found to be guilty by the Commission. I find recommendations emerging in the reports and in the Swanson Committee's report on its examination of the Act- these are to be found in paragraphs 1 1.34 and 1 1.35, which I am sure the Minister and his colleagues will be considering- which seem to me to suggest that the commissioners be made available for discussions with people so that it will be clearly understood what actions are being taken and how they contravene the legislation. 
If this is the attitude of the Trade Practices Commission, it seems to me that the more rational line of conduct for those who would speak for the trade union membership would be for them to take the view that no decision should be made on the hindering or prevention of the supply of goods or services by an employer or corporation until the picture is clear in the minds of all those people who are part and parcel at least of the trade unions. I remind honourable members that the postal workers made it clear to their union leadership that they were not prepared to go along with the denial of the right of the  Sun  newspaper company of the Fairfax Press to receive its mail. I would have thought that that was an expression of judgment which meant that within the trade union movement there were sufficient people with enough good sense to realise that there was a limit to the type of conduct in which these people could indulge. 
I trust that when the Minister answers these questions that have been raised he will deal in particular, if he can, with some of those matters that were referred to by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who has been in the Parliament now for some years and has an awkward habit of referring to matters as though they were peculiar to South Australia and quite unknown elsewhere. He usually manages to use expressions such as 'consumers being taken to the cleaners'. I do not find that a particularly attractive expression. I suppose if I had any shares in a cleaning company I would be most embarrassed to admit it. I do not believe that consumers are taken to the cleaners. I believe that in most of the Australian cities- from what I last saw of Adelaide a few weeks ago it is the case there also- there are plenty of opportunities for people to shop around and for them to go to a variety of companies where they can compare prices before they make their decisions to purchase. 
The fact remains- this is the most important part and the reality of this legislation- that we have to stimulate the Australian economy. We have to get people back into employment. As I said earlier, the social effects of long-term unemployment, particularly dreadful as they are, will be remembered by those whose memories go back to the years  From 1932 to  1939. 1 suppose the only thing I can say in conclusion is that I gain from the honourable member for Hawker the impression that there is only one cake manufacturer in Adelaide. I am quite sure that the Austrian Queen of King Louis XVI could not have said: 'If they can't get bread give them cake'. 
-This evening we are debating the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen in the other place yesterday afternoon. It has been my privilege to be a member of the House of Representatives over a long period and I was privileged to be present on the occasion of  Her  Majesty's first visit to Australia in 1954. I well remember that at that time all the members of the House of Representatives were united in their admiration of  Her  Majesty and  His  Royal Highness Prince Philip, of the charm and dignity which they brought to Australia and of the great impression that they made upon the Australian people. I express the view that in the 23 years since  Her  Majesty's visit in 1954 there has been, if anything, a growth in the respect and the admiration which the people of Australia hold for her, for her consort and for her family. 
We may with propriety, with fairness and with justice claim that in the world today the Royal Family in London are an example of dedication to duty. They are an example of perfect family life that might well be admired and respected right throughout the world. Comparisons could be made with senior people in other great countries but one ought not to pursue that matter in a debate of this description. However, I feel that it is reasonable to say that alongside the other great, important, powerful families in the world our Royal Family is outstanding. 
I would also like to say in tribute to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  that yesterday we saw an excellent parade of the armed forces representing the honour of this nation, bringing the colours of the units of the Royal Australian 
Navy, the Australian Army and the Royal Australian Air Force before the Australian people in a combined manner, which is most unusual, giving the people an opportunity to see those colours, to ponder what they mean and to understand that in the history of our nation those colours represent the honour of the nation. It was a proud occasion for those of us in particular who remember  Her  Majesty's father, the late King George VI, and his service during the Second World War. It was of great support to the people of the United Kingdom that the King and Queen remained in London during the whole of the horrific period of the bombing of the nation. I feel that we should look back at those days from time to time and remember that we have before us a great example of dedication to duty on the part of the Royal Family. I compliment the Minister for Defence and, through him, the armed Services upon the splendid parade that we witnessed here in Canberra yesterday. 
I have said that in the government of this country we look for toleration and dignity. We look for understanding and sympathy. In these days when economic recession has come to our nation it is important that those qualities be demonstrated. Criticism will always emerge in the media and in all sorts of rough and crude forms, and from people who are irresponsible, who are prepared to accept lower standards of living in the community and who will make no effort to help themselves and their own nation. I suggest that these people are an absolute minority. I hold the view that the great majority of the people who are unemployed today are unemployed as a result of the economic recession and as a result of the problems that arose in this nation in the last four or five years, which problems can be traced in a very substantial sense to the profligacy of the Government that was headed by the honourable member for Werriwa (MrE.G. Whitlam). 
In  Her  Majesty's Speech, which was of course prepared for her by the Government, one of the most significant paragraphs contains a recognition of the private sector, as we know it, as being that sector from which comes the great prosperity of the Australian people. In Australia' three-quarters of all the positions, the jobs, the appointments, are provided by people from the private sector.  Her  Majesty said that the prosperity of the Austraiian people depends on the strength of the productive private sector, on the manufacturing, mining and rural industries. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you were in the House on the occasion of the first of the Budgets of the Whitlam Government, introduced in August 1973 by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I remind you,  Sir, of  a phrase that he used. He said that it was now time to begin transferring assets from the private sector to the public sector. In my view, August 1973 was the time when it became quite clear that Government policies would lead us into an economic environment within which the private sector would have great difficulty in sustaining the high level of production, the high level of prosperity, that we had come to accept as the norm in Australia, particularly in the decade prior to 1972. 
I can well remember the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Werriwa, when he was Prime Minister standing at the despatch box and saying that the time had come for the Government to use the civil service as a pace-setter in the development of standards for people working in the Australian community. At first consideration it seemed that this was not an unreasonable thing, but the fact is that from that time onwards there was a tremendous surge, a tremendous increase, in wages throughout the Australian economy. Finally, because retribution comes to those who will not recognise the facts of life, the honourable gentleman was forced to say to an assembly of his own political supporters: The inflation which is the cancer that is destroying the Australian economy is largely due - 
The Leader of the Opposition stated this when he was Prime Minister. He said that it was largely due to these highly increased wage standards within the Australian community. Again and again honourable members opposite have made this admission after the damage has been done. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports is on record as saying that every wage increase received by one worker is at the expense of the job of his fellow worker. If one can accept the honourable member for Melbourne Ports as a man worthy of recognition, a person who knows what he is talking about, it would seem likely that we ought to recognise that these are the facts of life to which he has referred. 
I must answer a number of points that were made by my friend the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I was interested in his early comments in which he stated that the former Labor Government was elected in December 1972 because of the appeal of its welfare program. Whilst one can understand that people will support a welfare program, I assure him that one of the reasons that his Government was elected in December 1972 was that it had been out of office for 23 years and the Australian people had forgotten what it would mean to have a profligate socialist government on the treasury benches. It took the Aus.tralian people 3 years to find out but when the opportunity came the reality is that in spite of all the criticisms made by honourable gentlemen opposite, the Australian people voted them out of office in a manner almost without precedent in Australia's political history. 
I refer to the power of the Senate, which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith referred to as a mere charade. He said: 
We were removed from office by the senators. 
It must be obvious to all who can consider the facts of history that if the Australian people had wanted to retain their socialist government in December 1975; if they had wanted to keep the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  as Prime Minister, there was a substantial and real opportunity for them to do so. In fact, when they had their opportunity to express their judgment about the Australian Labor Party, they cast it from power in a manner which, as I have said, is unprecedented in our political history. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  my old and distinguished friend who has been in this Parliament for a long time, also continued with the criticisms of the events of November 1975 and again proceeded to paint a picture of some diabolical conspiracy, some clandestine operation which was dishonourable and contemptible. The fact of the matter is that the actions of 1975, over a period of some 6 or 7 weeks before the election date, were discussed in the Press, on the radio and on television and the people of Australia had their opportunity in December 1975, as the greatest tribunal in the nation, to make their judgment. The judgment was made in December 1975. 
Consistent with the normal criticism of members of the Labor Party, the last thing in the world they are prepared to do is to accept the umpire 's decision. I venture to suggest that if the Labor Party had remained in office for another 2 years and had had its full 3-year term of office from May 1974 to May 1977, the words of  Senator James  McClelland, when he was Minister for Labor and Immigration, would have been brought to absolute truth. He said to the trade union people: 'If you continue the way you are going now, by the end of 1977 we will have a million people unemployed and we will have roaring inflation of 20 per cent'. Anybody with any knowledge of these matters will understand that in nations where inflation has been roaring along, as it did in Germany in the 1920s, there has been a great social destruction of all the families in these nations and only the extremely wealthy have been able to sustain the impact of high inflation on their assets. 
I was impressed by what my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  had to say and I hope that his program to encourage investment will be studied closely by the Government and that the officers of the Treasury and the staff of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  Will recognise the value of the recommendations of the honourable member for Mackellar and that the Parliament will receive some sort of statement from the Treasurer either accepting, refuting, criticising or praising the honourable gentleman for the comments that he made. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  in his contribution to this debate made it quite clear that Labor Government expenditure helped private enterprise. He went to some length to indicate that hospitals, schools and roads are, in fact, mainly built by private enterprise and subcontractors. I was about to interject but I knew you would not approve of that,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I remind the honourable member that when I was  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament, I had to ask departments to pay their bills. I had to remind them that people had been waiting for payment for 180 days. This was a scandalous performance. It was not exclusive to the Labor Government and I venture to say on this occasion that I hope that government departments will pay their bills and that Prime Ministers and Treasurers will shake up the Public Service and make it do so because I believe that people who do not pay their bills for from 90 days to 180 days are guilty of conduct that I regard as totally reprehensible. 
I conclude by saying that this debate, which has been the result ofthe visit of  Her  Majesty to Australia gives us an opportunity to review the past, to examine the present and to look into the future for in this type of debate one can deal with matters referred to in  Her  Majesty's Speech or matters that are not referred to in  Her  Majesty's Speech but which, in the opinion of honourable members, should be included. I have no doubt that my distinguished and humorous friend, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  will have a number of aspects that he would like to introduce to his speech which he thinks ought to have been present. Speeches were made in the Parliament last night at a function. Some of them were humorous and there were aspects of the speeches that could be described as flippant I frankly do not believe that flippancy is the wisest thing to have introduced into a speech at what is supposed to be a solemn public occasion. 
I repeat that I am delighted to take part in this debate. I am proud indeed, along with my colleagues in the Parliament who have served the Monarch's father and herself over a long period of time, to see her and his Royal Highness, Prince Philip, here in our country. I know full well that the great majority of worthwhile Australians, to whom I refer will be in favour of her and her family and of this country remaining a constitutional monarchy in the future. 
I rise to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on his very long and complete statement on foreign affairs and to express my support of the present-day policies of the Government. I feel that I must reply in this debate to some of the comments of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He seemed to me, with his military comparisons, to be under the impression that there was some significance between the shipbuilding program within the Warsaw Pact and that of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. I thought that reference seemed to indicate that he did not understand that the Warsaw Pact is geared mainly for land military operations and that the NATO countries are the countries which need the shipbuilding capacity. They need the naval forces because they have the coastlines. The member countries of the Warsaw Pact have very little in the way of maritime power. They are, in fact, virtually satellites of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In August 1968, when the Dubcek Government in Prague appeared to be engaged in policies inconsistent with the policies of Moscow, the result was that Warsaw Pact forces, including those of the U.S.S.R., by invasion of Czechoslovakia, caused a change in personnel in the government in Prague and caused a change in the minds of those who felt that they might indulge in policies more consistent with democratic freedom. 
-The spy plane incident referred to by the honourable member for Hunter occurred in the time of Premier Khrushchev and  President  Eisenhower. I point out these facts because by informing the House that there is some significance in comparing these figures, the honourable member for Oxley misleads not only himself but also honourable members who are not familiar with the actual position. He talked about the problems of neutrality in the Indian Ocean and referred to the comments of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  about a possible threat. I think there is some advantage on some occasions at least in the House of Representatives in being absolutely frank. Many of the words that are used by political leaders constitute part of an international jargon. They have very little real meaning and very little relationship to what is actually going to occur. If honourable members consider the words, for example, of the Japanese emissaries in Washington in 1941 and contrast those words with the actual events of 7 December 1941, they will appreciate what I mean. If one looks at the words that have come out of Moscow and from the people behind the Iron Curtain right up to 1968, one would believe that these were peaceful, genuinely concerned and compassionate people. I frankly believe that anyone who saw the Russian tanks boring into Prague would really have felt that there was a little less compassion and a little less tolerance demonstrated than was consistent with the talk that emanated from behind the Iron Curtain. 
Therefore, I think it is about time that we realised that in this day and age, when there are nuclear submarines that can move from one side of the earth to the other underneath the water without detection by satellites and taking into account the military capacity involved in weapons of this description, it is an exercise in jargon to talk about neutralised areas of peace. If it ever suits people to act in a way that is consistent with their own national interest and if, in fact, some neutral area stands in their way, we can rest assured that what will happen to that neutral area will be exactly what happened to Holland and Belgium in 1940. It is exactly what happened to Belgium in 1 9 1 4. 1 think that the people of Australia are better served by some pragmatic, frank statements which set out the situation for them, hopefully so that they will understand the problems of the future. 
I support what was said by my colleague, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  about Papua New Guinea. Those of us who have had an association with that country over a long period of time and those of us who fought in that country in the armed Services during the World War II have developed a genuine feeling of respect and affection for the people who live there. I take the view that we would all hope and pray that cohesion will in fact be the result of the Australian influence in that country. I hope that in Bougainville those who talk of secession will realise that it is in the best interests of all of the nations of the Pacific that cohesion is sustained. If the Port Moresby Government is able to keep itself in a happy relationship with New Britain, with Bougainville and with Papua I think that the best interests of that nation and also the best interests of the people living in this country will be served. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on making a rather low key speech which I regard as being extremely frank. It was straight forward and pragmatic. In my judgment, it recognised the facts. I was interested to hear his comments on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People's Republic of China and his description of those nations. I agree with everything that he said. He said, however, that he thought it was of great international significance that the conflict between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union should continue, the inference being, of course, that were there to be established between the Government of Peking and the Government of Moscow a rapport and an understanding the probability would be that there would be a greater threat in the world because those 2 governments would be so powerful- in truth, two super-powers combined- that the rest of the world would need to tremble. Let me say this to the honourable gentleman: Governments make wars, people do not. There is no animosity between the ordinary human beings that one would meet in the street in those 2 countries. Governments are the influences and the forces that make war. I doubt very much that there is any real basic animosity between the people who live in Western Europe and the Soviet Union and the people who live in the People's Republic of China in the south. 
History teaches us, however, that the antipathy between those 2 peoples goes back to the days of Genghis Khan. It was in those days that influences were spread into Russia, and those influences have survived right through to the present time. The Mongol invaders stayed in Russia and subsequent generations were influenced by them. They grew up with remembrances that were passed on from father to son and so on throughout the years. So this great antipathy developed. 
There are many thousands of men and great installations of weapons in the eastern area of the Soviet Union. They are there obviously because the Russians believe that there is a threat from the People's Republic of China. The stories we have heard about the efforts in Peking to create underground facilities which will protect the population of the capital city against nuclear attack lead me to believe that there is a very serious apprehension in that country. However, being pragmatic, I believe that if there is one influence which will prevent the outbreak of nuclear war on this earth it is the doubt as to whether or not anyone will win it. From my study of history I do not believe that people go to war unless they believe they are going to win. If Hitler had been able to look into some sort of mirror and see what happened to Berlin in 1945 his whole attitude in 1939 might have been substantially different. I believe also that the same remarks could be applied to the Hohenzollern royal family and to the Kaiser and his colleagues in 1914. 
I found very interesting the references made by the honourable member for Prospect to Indonesia and the Philippines being subsidised by Libya. I know that  Colonel Gadaffi  enjoys throughout the world a reputation for eccentricity. I am well aware of the fact that certain people who were responsible for that monstrous murder of athletes at Munich have in fact found solace and protection with the people of Libya. It makes one wonder whether the new riches produced from the increased oil prices will be used in the future in the revelation of such things as the antipathy between the people in Europe and the people in Africa. If that is the case one can rest assured that, on a religious basis, the future will be as stormy as has been the past. I hope that from our point of view we in this nation will be able to meet people on a basis of understanding and so be able to control our education system and the development of this country that that sort of antipathy will not develop in Australia. 
I suppose one cannot look at what is happening in Uganda without thinking of Ireland and what is happening in Belfast and places like that; one cannot look at the areas of the world to which the honourable member for Prospect referred without bearing in mind that governments do tend to take strict control of those who intend to interfere with the development of their policies and programs. From my point of view, I think that people living in Australia can be very grateful for the measure of freedom they enjoypersonal freedom, political freedom- and for the understanding, the moderation and the tolerance that have characterised politics in this country over the last 70 years. 
I conclude by again congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his statement. I express the hope that he will be able to fulfil his objectives. I again caution him with the words that I have used to him before, namely, that he must remember that, in looking to the future, no one in 1929 could have predicted what was going to happen in 1939. I hope that he will not take to much notice of people who look into crystal balls, if he imagines that he can predict what the world situation will be in 1997- in 20 years time. I think Australia must move into the future with compassion, tolerance and understanding for its neighbours, always trying to be the good friend, taking an interest in their affairs and helping them, rather than being the school master and the nation trying to give instructions to them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister considered the proposal which has been put forward by an eminent Australian political figure to pay the unemployment benefit to married women, recognised as being unemployed, having become redundant - 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister is almost supplementary to the question just asked. I refer to the prices and incomes pause and the fact that it seems to be almost pointless to call a national conference - 
-! think that some words of reply should be tendered towards the compassionate member for 
Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I do not propose to treat him as though he is utterly devoid of intellectual integrity. I do not propose to suggest that he himself is not a person of compassion, but I feel that in the Party political sense it is necessary for me to point out one or two things that indicate the history of his own great political Party and its relationship to the term 'compassion'. I think that the people here will remember that in 1974 when the Vietnam war concluded there were a number of persons living in Saigon who had been long in the service of the Australian people- persons who had been associated with the Australian Embassy and Australian military personnel and who were identified and known by the communist forces in that country. But in spite of all the applications made to the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, and his Government these persons were turned away in a manner utterly bereft of compassion, utterly bereft of any recognition of service that they had rendered and most of them are by this time deceased. 
I would also point out to the honourable memberand he may well recall- that in August 1968 when the forces of the Warsaw Pact invaded Czechoslovakia, criticism by the political party from the other side was not forthcoming. It is perfectly true that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and I think on a number of occasions my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made critical comment about what the Russians were doing at that time but there was no widespread indication of a stricken conscience. There was no widespread demonstration of compassion. There was no widespread criticism of what the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the governments of the other nations of the Warsaw Pact were doing to the government in Prague. 
The reference with the most callous expression of all related to people who were guilty of cheating in relation to social services is one that I can well understand and I have no doubt that the millions of dollars that are milked from Consolidated Revenue each year by clever people ought to be chased and ought to be investigated with a view to improving and increasing Consolidated Revenue and getting at those taxation cheats who have been successful in the past. I would point out that the records of the MenziesFadden Government got better and better as the years went by. I am not without some view that when the Whitlam Government was in office there were still methods being introduced to  catch these people and I have no doubt that in the Treasury in 1977 there is as much vigilance as you could wish for. 
I also have no doubt that the techniques of taxation cheating to which the honourable member for Shortland has referred will probably be improved from time to time in the most unusual manner. I would remind the honourable member that that usually happens when a former Commissioner for Taxation or  Deputy  Commissioner for Taxation retires after a long and distinguished career and then writes a book that says 'These are the loopholes in taxation,' and taxation avoidance then becomes more simple for those who seek to pursue it. One cannot hope in the moment or two available in this debate to deal with all of these matters but I would hope that one can refute the suggestion from the honourable member for Shortland that all compassion resides on one side of the Parliament and there is none on the other side. I refute that suggestion as being absolute and utter nonsense. I believe  that the Labor Party ought to face up to the fact that its responsibility for the unemployment situation is undeniable. It is undeniable that it, by its profligacy, its stupidity and its way of spending public money as though it was going out of fashion, is largely responsible for the situation of misery in this country today. I believe that the bulk of the people of this country  will  recognise that fact and that it Will be demonstrated at the next Federal election. 
I wish to make some reference to a number of comments that were made by some of my colleagues on the other side of the House and also to comment on the report of the learned Judge and his colleagues that is before us. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  is well known in this Parliament.  His  record over a long period is known to us all and many of us regard him personally as a friend. As a soldier in the Australian Army he was incarcerated by the imperial Japanese Army in 1942. He was released 3 years afterwards in 1945, as a result of the first use of atomic weapons in a world war. So it can truly be said that the atomic weapons used at that time were used to stop World War II, not to further the development of war. 
We know that the Nazi Germany was experimenting with heavy water at Telemark in Norway. We know the enemy at that time was developing the know-how and experience that could have led to the development of an atomic weapon. A moment ago the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that it was unnecessary for these weapons to have been used in World War II. The fact of the matter is that the then  President  of the United States decided to use nuclear weapons because in his judgment this action would finish the war quickly and save the lives of at least hundreds of thousands of allied servicemen who were fighting in the Pacific. I mention this because I believe that the attitude of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is governed by those circumstances. No one could go through that tragic experience without developing an effect that would manifest itself later in life. The honourable member made it clear to me in his speech this afternoon that his great anxiety was that anxiety that is referred to by  His  Honour Justice Fox and by my colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem). His  Honour said that 'the nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war and that 'this is the most serious hazard associated with the industry'. I wonder whether the House would accept that statement as being on its own entirely valid. I suggest to the House that if we take out the word 'nuclear' and read that statement again we will find that the same validity exists, lt would then read this way: 'The power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of war'. I suggest to honourable members that this has been the case over a long period. I suggest also that conquerors engage in the business of conquest when they know they can succeed. The reality is that as technological developments take place mankind will have to face up to the fact that conquests will not occur in the historical manner. It will not take place while a deterrent exists as it does at the moment. 
Australia is a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. When we read what Justice Fox has to say about the Non-Proliferation Treaty we realise that honourable members who are speaking here against the export of Australian uranium ore should have second thoughts. By objecting to the export of uranium they are putting in jeopardy Australia's international reputation which has been gained from the ratification of this treaty. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry second report stated: 
A total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries or all further development of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose. If the purpose were simply to draw international attention to the dangers of and associated with the industry, that purpose might be achieved, but it is most unlikely that any worthwhile action would result. On the other hand there are positive reasons against adopting such a course. Apart from financial considerations, which are not to be neglected, there are considerations to which we referred when dealing with the topic of proliferation. A total refusal to supply would place Australia in clear breach of Article IV of the NPT and could adversely affect its relation to countries which are parties to the NPT. 
Am I to understand that the followers of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  the members of the Australian Labor Party- who led the Government which ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons are now saying to the rest of the world that the decision at that time was not to be taken seriously and that circumstances have developed to make them change their minds. Is that the position? I do not believe that it can be. Furthermore, I think that such a proposal put before the leaders of the Western world would be greeted with contempt. As the Prime Minister said on 24 May 1977: 
At their recent summit meeting the heads of Government of the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, West Germany, France, Japan and Italy committed themselves to increasing nuclear energy to help meet the world's energy requirements while reducing the risks of nuclear proliferation. 
In other words, the major powers on this earth have said that, if we will put our trust in them, they will be prepared to give guarantees that will make the possibilities of nuclear war far too remote a possibility. The other alternative, as we all understand, is to move into the operation of getting nuclear capacity because we are afraid that someone will use it against us. I think that such a policy will not be accepted by the great majority of nations. On the other hand, one must admit that there has been no attempt to conceal that this was the very fear in the People's Republic of China. I believe that its actions have been governed by the conviction in Peking that it was under great and real threat from the Government of Moscow. 
We listened to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  speaking about national interests.  His  suggestion was that we should keep our exports within Australia until they were more valuable and then we would be able to get more funds from overseas when they were exported. It is quite clear from the report of Justice Fox that if that were done we would be in breach of the non-proliferation Treaty. I say to Australians, and I hope they will all understand this, that having ratified that Treaty the ratification being carried out by the Labor Government, we are in the position where we have to honour our international agreements. The leaders of the Western world are prepared to go to every rational, responsible length to establish the safeguards which they regard as vital. I would have thought that there was enough evidence to accept that at least the potential conquerers of this world- the conquerers who might be likely to engage in nuclear war- will go along with the nonproliferation Treaty while its suits them. They will go along with the strategic arms limitations talks agreements and they will go along with most of the international agreements. This seems to indicate that peace can survive on this earth. If it cannot, we will face great trouble in the future whether or not the people of Australia are in favour of exporting uranium. 
In my judgment it has been properly put forward by my colleagues this afternoon that for 0.4 per cent of the world's population to start dictating to the rest of the 4000 million people on this earth about their capacity and their right to decide whether they will develop nuclear industries would be entirely wrong. Not only would it be entirely wrong but also, in my judgment, it would be irresponsible and immature politically. I do not believe that will occur. As I understand it, gallup polls taken in this country have indicated that the majority of Australians have some comprehension of this matter which we are discussing. The majority of them are in favour of Australia honouring its international agreements and contracts and honouring article IV of the non-proliferation Treaty. I say in conclusion that it is my hope that the House will support the concept that Australia should proceed with international responsibility and not national selfishness. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Has the Minister for Defence  been advised of criticism related to expenditure on defence equipment for the three Services and the present budgetary proposals? Can he clarify this criticism for the House? Even better, will he consider making a detailed and precise statement that one should hope would lead to a debate on defence in the House? 
Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations confirm that the latest figures relating to industrial disputation show that in the first six months of this calendar year Australia had the lowest number of industrial disputes and working days lost during this decade? In view of these statistics will the Minister advise the House whether he is satisfied that this level of industrial disputation indicates that there is a minimum degree of political and economic subversion going on in this country? 
-I rise in this debate this evening to support the Commonwealth Government in its decision in relation to the mining and export of uranium oxide. I do so in the hope that the Government will, in a responsible and proper manner, develop throughout Australia during the next decade a strong nuclear power industry. I hold the view that some of the references made by my socialist friends on the other side of the Parliament are almost impossible to answer. Having followed the tortuous arguments that have been put forward I will endeavour to answer some of the remarks that were made by my old and respected friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  The honourable member talked about nuclear power in the hands of the wrong people. He talked of small countries. He became fearful of the fact that small countries might be responsible for the creation of war. The idea came to my mind that he meant because countries were small they were likely to be irresponsible. 
In order to support his argument the honourable gentleman referred to a great and powerful country. He said that Germany was involved in wars in 1871, 1914, and 1939. So, this argument did not relate to small nations; it related to a great and conquering nation. The honourable member made very little reference to what happened in the Pacific in 1939 and 1945. He pointed out that we were inclined to be moralistic in our arguments and he said so in a tone of disapproval. He talked about a secular society. In that respect I am inclined to agree with him. 
I think the greatest single pollutant on this earth is mankind. I see no particular danger in any sort of natural production, in anything at all that is not manifested through mankind. Human beings are what is wrong with this earth. If we want to keep it free from all form of danger we have to get rid of all human beings. Pressures have been generated by human beings for thousands of years and I venture to suggest that the same situation will exist for the next million years. 
I have no doubt that the pragmatism in politics that has manifested itself over recent years will continue to manifest itself. The Australian Labor Party in opposition has one series of arguments, and we heard with great clarity from my friend, the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  that it had an entirely different series of arguments in government. Mark you, I must say that there have been occasions on which I think the same criticism could be levelled at the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. But on this occasion in this debate I think it is fair enough to point out that everything that he said about the development of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, about the speeches of the late Rt  Hon.  J. B. Chifley when he was Prime Minister in 1947 and about development plans for the Hifar reactor are perfectly true. To the best of my knowledge, having sat at that time with the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, no harm has been caused in Sydney as a result of the existence of the Hifar reactor which is just outside the southern suburbs of Sydney. 
Subsequent to the explosion of an atomic bomb in South Australia, people from the South Australian Government set out to discover whether any ill effects could be detected. To the best of my knowledge one of  Mr Dunstan  's Ministers is on public record as saying there is no evidence to support such a contention. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  talked about making the planet a safer place and the development of the nuclear industry within Australia. He referred to the nine reasons given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the Government's decision and said that by and large he tended to agree with most of them. I think most people in this House would not quarrel with the fact that Australia has an obligation to provide the rest of the world with a vital source of fuel and energy. Most people here are aware of the fact- this is constantly referred to-that our great trading partner and main customer is Japan. We hear people say, in an economic sense, that if Japan gets an economic cold Australia is likely to get pneumonia. Therefore it is vital for a developing country which has an enormous capacity to know that Australia will guarantee it energy sources, lt is in our interest to do so. It is also in Japan's interest that we carry on programs that have emerged over recent years. It is in both our interests that an understanding is developed between our two nations so that we can look forward to the future with confidence. 
With its millions and millions of people, Japan suffers an urgent reaction if it faces a recession. At present, 9414 per cent of Australians are employed, 5 1/2 per cent are not. Therefore it is easy for us to understand that there would be a much worse reaction in that country if we were to deny it energy sources. If we did so Japan would probably very quickly suffer enormous levels of unemployment. 
It seems to me that, if we are to talk about the need to make the planet a safer place and most Opposition speakers keep coming back to this problem- we must face up to the fact that Australia is not one of the countries that will be able to contribute a great deal in this respect. Nations that are well along the nuclear road include Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria and Canada. I went over one of the Canadian nuclear power stations at Lake Erie in 1969 when I was a member of an Australian parliamentary delegation to that country. That situation was well on the road to completion at that time. Other nations that are operating nuclear power stations include Czechoslovakia, France, West Germany, East Germany, India, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Are these nations to be considered sinister because they are prepared to use nuclear power? Are they to be condemned because of the fact that they have adopted a policy that will produce this sort of energy? I think not. I think that Australians must be pragmatic. They must understand that this is a world situation and the rational, responsible and adult thing to do is to participate in a rational and responsible manner. If we are to say our best customers 'go elsewhere to get your uranium oxide', I imagine that a large powerful country Uke Japan will do exactly that, think there might be some people in Tokyo who would get out their little black book and put a couple of ticks against us and say: 'Well, there will come an opportunity one of these days for us to remind them that you have given us unfriendly treatment on this matter'. 
'Settle the account', is a fair enough expression. Countries like Austria, Brazil, Finland, Hungary, Mexico, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan have nuclear power reactors under construction. Iran, Luxemburg, the Philippines, Poland, Romania and Yogoslavia have them on order. These are all small countries. I do not know that necessarily they will be irresponsible countries. I do not see them producing Napoleons or Hitlers. I think it is a rational and reasonable thing to believe that these people, having decided to pursue the road to nuclear energy, Will conduct themselves in a responsible manner. One must in international pontics assume in the first place that those with whom one is dealing are going to act in a reasonable and responsible manner. 
I am serious that one must do so for a start. When one goes to an international conference one does not walk in like a commando with one's machine gun firing. One must first of aU assume that the people with whom one is dealing have a certain measure of friendliness and willingness to co-operate. 
The honourable gentleman refers to the British Prime Minister and the German Chancellor of 1 939. 1 would simply say this: The British Prime Minister and the French Prime Minister were pragmatic people. They were aware of the fact that they would be able to avoid an international war such as the one in 1914-18 if they were to sacrifice the people in Czechoslovakia and Prague. The answer is this: The Czechoslovakians did not rate enough to prevent the arrangement at Munich, and Daladier and Chamberlain were signatories to it. They believed at that time, and the House of Commons believed at that time when Chamberlain came back to London, that we were going to have 'peace in our time'. It was more than 12 months before it was quite clear that there would need to be a war. Anyway, conferences have nothing to do with uranium oxide, any more than they have to do with fish and chips. 
That was not a personal reference to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  and I beg his pardon. These problems for Australia are largely manufactured. I take the view that the great majority of people believe when they elect a government in this country that it will act in a responsible way. When the nine reasons set out for proceeding with the contracts for the export of uranium oxide are clearly understood the people will accept them. I am not sure whether it is the Leader of the Labor Party who talks to the  President  of the Council of Trade Unions with one cap on or vice versa; but, when we hear people who hold responsible positions talking in terms of violence in the streets, demonstrations and things like that, it makes us realise that there is a measure of irresponsibility. 
There should be a recital of the facts as given by the honourable member for Lang. The view of the Labor Party when in government should be identified. The unfortunate decision in 1971-72 to discontinue the reactor program ought to be reversed at the earliest opportunity. The fact that it was going to cost in the order of $ 1,000m was rather forbidding. That is a forbidding figure at this dme. However, in a country that has a gross national product of more than $ 100,000m, as this country has, it seems to me that we ought to be able to pursue this developmental policy and as quickly as possible get to the stage where we can do some of the enrichment in this country. If we do that, the return in terms of economic benefits to the average Australian will be immensely greater. There is no doubt about that. 
I believe that one of the other comments of the Labor Prime Minister of 1949- that the hip pocket nerve was a very sensitive nerve- was wise and sagacious. I frankly think that the average Austraiian is more interested in that sort of wisdom and sagacity than in a lot of the emotional claptrap which is being uttered about uranium and which could lead to violence of which any reasonable and respectable person would be thoroughly ashamed. 
I should like to respond to a number of comments made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  Much of the complaint that he has registered in the Committee this afternoon is valid. I am well aware of the fact that the accommodation provided for the members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition is not all that most of us would like to see. Having been in opposition during the years 1972 to 1975 I can confirm what the honourable gentleman has said. However, at that time and in those circumstances when requests were put to the then Prime Ministerthe present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  we found it was very difficult to convince him that very much should be done. In fact, when he was previously the Leader of the Opposition the same circumstance existed. We find ourselves rather like a dog chasing its tail. 
I do not want any of these remarks to be interpreted in any way- I am quite sure that my friend the honourable member for Burke would agree with me on this- as a reflection upon the members of the staff, that is, the people in the Department of the House of Representatives, the Department of the Senate, the Joint House Department, the Library, the  Hansard  staff and other organisations around Parliament House. The honourable member made an interesting comment when he referred to the Senate and the referendum of 1967 in which the present Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Werriwa, and the then Prime Minister, the late Right Honourable Harold Holt, were approaching the Australian people jointly to have that nexus broken. At that time, thanks largely to the distinguished members of the Fourth Estate and their customary misrepresentation and distortion, it developed into an argument as to whether there ought to be more or fewer members of Parliament within this country. 
It was rather unfortunate that this matter was not developed properly because one can recall that in the days when Australia had six million to seven million people we had 36 senators. Today, with 14 million people in Australia I am not at all sure that there is not some merit in saying that there ought to be 84 senators. This would give us a House of Representatives comprising about 168 members. I point out that when there were six million to seven million people in Australia we had a Parliament comprising 74 members. In 1948-49 the Labor Government of the day had, if I remember correctly, 45 members in this House and the Liberal-Country Party Opposition had 29 members. If one considers the validity of comparison between the population at that time and the population today there is a reasonable argument to be advanced. Of course there are always arguments of a party political nature which interfere with a proper, responsible and rational interpretation of what should be the size of Parliament in relation to population. 
The other comments by the honourable member for Burke which I wanted to endorse related to the new and permanent Parliament House. At a time of economic restriction, as we have at present, it is very difficult to imagine that the Government will approach with a great deal of alacrity these programs, the cost of which would probably run to at least $100m, as my colleague from Burke said earlier. But the fact remains that we do need to have a new and permanent Parliament House. There is no doubt that if we do not meet this expenditure in the late 1970s, whereas we would be paying $100m or more now, in 10 years time we will be paying twice that amount. This is the story of the past 40 to 50 years in this country. I have no doubt that that story will not change in the future. 
In the few minutes still available to me I want to make one or two comments in favour of the staff of the Parliament. In debating these estimates I am quite sure I speak for the very great majority of the members of this House of Representatives when I say that we are extremely grateful for the services rendered here in circumstances which are not always the best. I hope to make one or two comments in relation to some of the figures in these estimates. I note that we are graced with the presence of the  Speaker.  I am delighted to see him in the Committee this afternoon. I want to put in a word for the equipment that we have within the facilities of the Parliament. I am thinking in particular of that in the dining room and in those areas that are controlled by the Joint House Department. I notice, for example, that the appropriation for equipment in 1976-77 was $28,500 and that, with a remarkable capacity, the Joint House Department managed to dispose of $28,499, which left $1 in kitty at the end of the financial year. However, this year the appropriation has been reduced to $ 14,000. After examining some of the equipment in the dining room- I shall make no more particular reference than this- it is quite apparent to me that some of it needs refurbishing and some of it needs maintenance a little more constantly than it is receiving at the present time. 
I quite understand. I agree with my honourable colleague from Banks that much of it is not new. However, I would say that it is still valuable equipment. If the plating on a lot of the jugs and other equipment in the dining room was regularly considered, and if money was provided to maintain that equipment it would last a long time. I suggest that in this circumstance and at this time it is a matter that might be considered. 
I turn once again to the facilities section and refer to some of the critical comments made earlier by the honourable member for Burke I think it is only fair to point out to him that when I was first elected to this place in 1949 the facilities provided to members of Parliament were not as good as they are at the present time; they have improved substantially over the years. I pay some tribute to the former member for Grayndler, the Honourable F. M. Daly, because in my judgment he made a very substantial contribution in many ways in improving the facilities provided for private members of parliament.  Her  Majesty's Ministers, because of the financial support they receive, do not need the sort of aid required by back benchers. I do not necessarily believe that the former honourable member for Grayndler should be compared with Ministers of the present Government, but I point out that we do owe him a great deal. When I first entered the Parliament I well remember that we had only one secretary. No office was provided for the honourable member for St George, as I then was. I had, I think, the use of half a table in the ministerial party room. I do not know that that was a tremendous confinement, but there is no doubt that in this day, in this building, members are very substantially better off than they have been in the past, I think that that ought to be recorded side by side with the general criticisms put before the Committee this afternoon by the honourable member for Burke. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.58)-We have just heard two logical contributions in the consideration of these estimates. It was a pleasure for me to hear the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  say that the complaints made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  were valid. I reciprocate by saying that I agree with the contributions made by both honourable members. As a matter of fact, it was my intention to mention some of the points referred to by those honourable members. I find that I will have to steer a somewhat different course. However, I still feel that we have some duty to discuss some of the functions of the Parliament to be maintained by this appropriation and to discuss some of the benefits to be derived from the proper functioning of the Parliament. It is appropriate also to discuss the benefits to be derived by the country as a whole. I feel also that we ought to discuss some adjustments that could or should be made in order to make the Parliament more efficient and to win us greater respect and understanding from the citizens generally. 
I am conscious of the official brochure which is handed to visitors in King's Hall. It speaks about the outstanding role that members of this Parliament have to play. It goes on to say that the decisions made by those people will have a farreaching effect on the lives of every citizen. It then goes on to say that we see at work the immortal words of Abraham Lincoln: 'Government of the people, by the people, for the people'. I am quite sure that most honourable members have those lofty ideals when they come to this Parliament. Unfortunately we seem to lose our way somewhere along the line. I think the damage is done because we project the wrong image. I want to put forward some facts, to make some comparisons, and to use some arguments to justify my belief that this Parliament could be improved. That could be achieved without a great deal of effort but simply by a change of attitude. 
It is my belief that the Parliament should be an expression of the social structure of the society it represents. Therefore we should act in conformity with the hopes, desires and wishes of the people who put us here. Over and above that expression, of course, members on both sides of the Parliament have a common interest. We have a duty to defend the common interest and to prove that we are willing and capable of serving that common interest which, of course, is to consider the requirements of the nation as a whole. Along the path towards defining that common interest, I want to give some recognition to the guidance given by the  Speaker.  I am very pleased to see him in the chamber this evening. Some time ago he told us he would make arrangements to have the national flag displayed in this Parliament. There is no doubt that the appropriation we are considering will be used for small things such as the erection of the flag, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and even the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship. 
I shall deal with some of these things. To some people they may appear to be minor matters, but to me they play an important part in the functioning of the Parliament. It seems to me that if we are to be an expression of the social structure of the society we represent we must carry the flag of our electorate in this Parliament. We should put up the standard and every day when we come to the Parliament and we see our national flag we should remember our duty to our electorate and to the flag we carry. I believe that if we were all a little more conscious of what the flag represents we would have a better Parliament, a better nation and a brighter future. I do not want to dwell on this for too long. However, I do congratulate the  Speaker  and I ask him not to dally any longer but to have the flag put up, because we can certainly do with a few more flag carriers in this Parliament. 
Another matter to which I wish to give some consideration is one which I think is doing violence to this Parliament. I speak of the hierarchy syndrome. It seems to me that there are symptoms of that on both sides of the House. I make the point that no one increases his dignity by standing on it. I ask the question: Why is it that some members who come into this Parliament with reasonable to outstanding educational qualifications can wriggle their way on to the front bench or into Cabinet and then imagine that they are super-intellectuals? It seems to me that that sort of thing is causing a good bit of disharmony in this House. I cannot understand why any Christian would take that attitude, because those people should know that some knowledge, some wisdom, which is withheld from the learned and the wise, is revealed to little children. 
The honourable member for Burke has already mentioned that members of the Press deserve to have some of this appropriation used to improve their facilities. I agree with this but I do not want anyone to think that I believe the Press is always responsible in reporting the happenings of this Parliament. I deplore some of their methods of gathering news, although they are sometimes of advantage to the Party I represent. However, I think that practices such as leaking information, tipping people off and pimping on one's own Party are to be frowned upon.  Mr Speaker  would know that rarely does the Press tell the nation about the good work he does. It very seldom gives me a mention either. I believe that it does some violence to our democracy both inside and outside this House. On several occasions I have spoken about the value of some of the country newspapers, in particular the  Barrier Daily Truth  and the  Lachtander.  I wish to refer to another smaller country newspaper. That is the  Recorder  which circulates in Ivanhoe and district. Honourable members will understand how truthful this newspaper is when I read an article from it. It is headed 'Champion of the Outback' and states: 
No matter what your party politics may be, I think you will agree that the scrapping of the States biggest seat, Darling, held by  Mr John  FitzPatrick for the ALP since 1969, will be a great blow for the Far West. 
Is that not lovely? 
While we hold no party policies one way or the other, in all fairness, it must be put on record that  Mr FitzPatrick  has been the Champion of the Outback. 
I could read it all, it is such a lovely story. I wish to touch on the appropriation for the InterParliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I notice that the Senate debates on the Estimates touched on this matter. It seems to me that people outside the Parliament often condemn members of parliament for going on visits overseas. I have been away on three and I have never worked harder in my life and I have had a spell in hospital each time I came back. I think that it is much more beneficial to send a member of this Parliament overseas to spread goodwill and to understand what goes on in the rest of the world than it is to send an army overseas. Unless we are prepared to spend this money we will damage human relations. Every encouragement should be given to keep the good work of the Inter-Parliamentary Union going. 
I refer also to some of the good work done by the parliamentary committees. I have been on several committees of this House and I have always found some dedicated people who work a lot harder than I am able to do myself. I am sure that the Parliament gets a lot of benefit out of the committee system. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-We have conducted a sort of debate here this evening while considering the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  however, took no part in that debate; he brought in a written speech which was carefully typed and which he read to the Committee in his customary style. Subsequently I shall make one or two comments about the speech he made. I wish to refer to the tendency that has developed in the House of Representatives over recent years to postpone debate on many of these very important matters. Too few papers on foreign affairs have been introduced into this chamber in recent years and we have been given too few opportunities to discuss in detail the many ramifications of foreign policy. Such discussions would give honourable members an opportunity to know what other people in the House are thinking. If we had a general debate some attempt could be made to obtain a consensus within this House on these very important matters. There is a very real need to have more debates on these matters, particularly when it is realised that these days defence and trade have become so interwoven with foreign affairs. It has been necessary for officials from the Department of Foreign Affairs to take part in many of the discussions which in fact are related to overseas trade. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who preceded me in the debate tonight referred to resources diplomacy. He spoke about Japan; he spoke about the Association of South East Asian Nations. I can understand some of his lament. However, in my judgment, he would do well to remember that the orientals were very sophisticated and were trading with one another at a time in history when his ancestors were covered in paint and baying at the moon at Stonehenge. In those circumstances he would be well advised to consider the facts and to stop his lament. 
The references that were made to the position in Indo-China were very interesting indeed and ought to be studied very carefully by honourable members. It is easy enough to be critical of the people in Thailand; it is easy enough to be critical of the people in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. But the fact remains that any Australian with any sense of responsibility, with any sense of good fortune, is very grateful that we do not share a border with those countries and that there are many thousands of miles of water and many islands between this country and those countries in Indo-China. 
I was not at all surprised to hear the comments made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  when referring to the Indonesian situation. Anybody who has known the honourable member for as long as I have known him and anybody who knows that he experienced the great misery of being a prisoner of war and a guest of  His  Imperial Japanese Majesty from 1942 to 1945 will understand with great clarity that his judgment on many of these matters has been affected considerably by the charm and savoir faire with which he was treated during that time. I can well understand the deep concern and compassion that has been revealed in the Parliament in the last week by my friend, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  This was expressed side by side, I really think, with the basic attitude of the honourable member for Reid in the form of this deep concern and an anxiety that there should be an armistice, a ceasefire, in that unfortunate island so that peace may be brought to the country and people who have had their way of living destroyed by war would have presumably some opportunity of putting the broken pieces of their lives together again. I can well understand such sentiments. I hope and pray, as we all must, that this will be the trend in the development of events in the next 12 months or so. 
However, when one looks again at the history of 1965, when one remembers the stories that were told by the fourth estate, when one hears in this Parliament of the reports that were made and when one understands what happened during the PKI- the Indonesian Communist Partyrevolt in 1965 I have no difficulty at aU in understanding the position of the Government in Jakarta- none at all. I would venture the view that if some of us had the personal experiences that some of the people went through at that time in that city their views would be substantially different from those that we hear expressed in this House from time to time. 
I turn very briefly now to the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition. He made reference to Queensland electoral strategy. I have the feeling that he was referring to the Cattlemen's Union which is better known to my friends in the National Country Party but I would imagine that he was referring to the interest of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in trying to help people who are in that organisation. I see nothing peculiar about that. I believe that the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition himself- in fact all members of the Senate and of the House of Representativesought to be profoundly affected by the appalling circumstances that exist in the rural community today and ought to be prepared to have a policy which is bipartisan, a policy which will lead to the rehabilitation and the re-establishment of the rural economy of Australia. If this does not occur within the next two years, the resultant misery for people living in the electorates of honourable gentlemen on both sides of this House will be greatly increased indeed. The likelihood is that, as our ability to earn income overseas diminishes, we will find that we will have more and more economic problems manifesting themselves in unemployment in this country. I believe that, when the Leader of the Opposition was referring to the Prime Minister as rather thick and muscle-bound, he was being unnecessarily personal. Take the view that if that is his judgment of the Prime Minister he himself must qualify as a leading illustration of malnutrition. In those circumstances, the Leader of the Opposition was ill-advised in making that criticism. 
However, what he said is that we have attempted to put a point of view in international forums on international matters. The great difference that I see between the policy of the Prime Minister, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party and the policies of the 
Labor Party as represented by the Leader of the Opposition can be reasonably expressed. The people on this side of the Parliament will stand up and be counted somewhere and at least they will be on some side. The people on the other side of the Parliament in particular represented by the honourable member for Werriwa, bereft of integrity, will stand up and, hang it all, they will be counted on both sides because they will genuflect to anything around the world that represents to them some sort of ideological advantage when surrounded in the United Nations by a whole mass of people who are motivated by self-interest. We all know perfectly well that this attitude is in fact an absolute illustration of total lack of integrity. We in this country ought to remember our debt to the United States of America first expressed by the late Rt  Hon.  John Curtin. It was explained by him to the Australian people in words that they would well understand. When the historic appeal was made by John Curtin to the United States of America, he was speaking with fear in his heart for the welfare of his country. The truth of the matter is that the Australian debt to the United States cannot be expressed in the type of miserable criticism that is made by people on the other side of the Parliament. In my judgment, the Labor Party lacks integrity in international foreign policy. It will, on the one hand, be evenhanded in the Middle East and on the other hand it will be uneven-handed in the southern parts of Africa. It will genuflect to Moscow. It will genuflect to Peking without any difficulty. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I feel it necessary at this stage in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Veterans' Affairs to reply to some of the comments made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and my friend, the honourable and gallant member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It seems to me extraordinary that the honourable member for Wills, particularly as he was a Minister in the last Government, should make the comments that he has made about the repatriation system which is run by the Department of Veterans' Affairs in this country. The fact is that, compared with all other countries apart from that with the wealthiest and most powerful economy in the world- the United States of America- the Australian record in these matters is better than that of any other country and certainly compares very favourably with that of countries like Canada. In my judgment- I could talk at length about this subject- it is superior to the record in the United Kingdom and anywhere on the continent of Europe. 
The honourable member for Wills talked about people who had served in the war 30 years ago and who had served in the First World War 60 years ago. He talked about the difficulty in establishing an identification between a condition of health and their service. The truth is that for years people who served have had their records available for any subsequent illness to be studied in relation to those records. When they left the Services in 1945 and 1919 all of these people were examined. They were asked whether they were suffering from any illnesses, they were promised treatment and, to the best of my knowledge, were given treatment until they were well enough to return to civil life. The statistics of servicemen who over the years have been involved in applications will demonstrate that they have had a proper analysis through a system which has been fostered in Australia and which is about the fairest system one could conceive. 
Honourable members will realise that there is a Repatriation Board in every State. If the doctors and members of that Board in a quasi- judicial position are unable to identify the claim with an acceptance of the claim they are bound by the law, which is the law fostered by the Labor governments of 1941 to 1948 and of 1972 to 1975. Then if the applicant is not satisfied with the rejection there is a right of appeal to the Repatriation Commission, and a different set of doctors and a different set of people in the Commission will consider all the facts and either disagree or concur with the judgment of the Board. There are many instances that can be cited where the Commission has decided in favour of the applicant and has not concurred with the first judgment of the State Board. 
Subsequent to that, if the applicant is still convinced that he has not had a fair and reasonable assessment of his claim he has been able for years to appeal to a War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal, which is independent of the Department. The War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal carries out a thorough analysis of all the facts. I have never heard of any situation in which anyone has seriously charged that with some malice aforethought one of these tribunals was trying to deny to ex-servicemen or to the widows of ex-servicemen their proper entitlement. The fact is that they look into all aspects of the case and endeavour to establish beyond all reasonable doubt that there is a case for granting a serviceman's claim. 
A study of the statistics will show that it is reasonable for me to say that the system has worked extremely well over the years and greatly to the advantage of the ex-servicemen and women and their dependants in this country. Had it been on a more legalistic basis, in my judgment quite a number of people who managed to secure claims would in all probability have been rejected. We were asked how these things are proved. They can be only a matter of medical opinion. It is a matter of judgment. Medical practitioners are quite likely in some circumstancesrare indeed- to find themselves opposed to one another in medical judgments. In that type of situation, it is up to the State repatriation boards, the entitlement appeals tribunals or the Repatriation Commission to arrive at a judgment. 
The honourable member for Burke referred to people suffering from tuberculosis. He seemed to e under the impression that people suffering from tuberculosis would not receive entitlements. The fact of the matter is that nobody suffering from tuberculosis will be disadvantaged under the new arrangements that have been announced. Enormous advances have been made in medicine since 1943. In 1977 tuberculosis no longer has the horrific connotations that attached to it in the past. If someone who is deemed to be totally recovered from this terrible disease becomes ill again, the system provides that he can appeal to an assessment appeals tribunal in order to be returned to the full entitlement applicable to that degree of incapacity as determined by the Tribunal. Anyone suffering from an active tuberculosis condition would be in hospital and would be on the equivalent of the totally and permanently incapacitated rate of pension. Therefore, it is utter nonsense to say that our repatriation system is designed to deny sick people their proper entitlement. 
For many years members of the Federated TB Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association of Australia had advantages that were greater than those accorded to their fellow ex-servicemen. Under the circumstances this was a fair and reasonable thing in the judgment of the various governments. Today tuberculosis has almost been eliminated from Australia as a matter of great concern. The Government has made a decision which, as far as I can make out, has not led to the executive of the Returned Services League, the main body representing the welfare of ex-servicemen and women in Australia, appearing to complain to the Parliament. If the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  would like to test that proposition, I recommend that he approaches the national executive of the Returned Services League and ask it to give him a written opinion on these decisions. 
Having regard to the circumstances this evening and as I am the only member in the chamber this evening who was privileged and honoured to be a member of this House when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  joined us- I was privileged to be a member of this House when his predecessor,  Mr Holloway,  was a member of the Nineteenth Parliament- I feel I should make some comments. I feel that at least some of my colleagues on the back bench- the members of the front bench are singularly absent on this occasion- would like me to make some comment in reply to the expression by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to the House a few moments ago. I say with great conviction that I know of no man who has sat in this Parliament and enjoyed the affection and respect of all members of this House more than has the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Perhaps there have been many men over the years who equally have been so favoured but I repeat: I know of no man who has more enjoyed the respect and affection of members of this place. He has always conducted himself with the utmost compassion and tolerance. Even in matters that one may associate with that distinguished profession of accountancy, he has found, with people singularly dull like myself, the ability to be forgiving. 
I well recall over all these years- since 1952 when he came to this place- his recognition of the rights of people to express their judgment and his hope that their beliefs would see fulfilment and that they would have, as he has in common with us all, the conviction that this country will maintain its heritage and proceed into the future with a safe and secure standard of living for all of the people whom he represents, and whom I and all my colleagues on both sides of the House represent. I well recall his distinguished service on the Public Accounts Committee. I remember from time to time- with his old and very charming friend the former  Speaker, Mr Cope-  the advice which was related to motor car transport. I always remember that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was one who said with great sagacity that there was never a reason for pursuing those things that might be more deep than they should be for the average man in this place. I feel that I should say to him on this occasion- I am the only person in this chamber tonight who was here when he arrived- that we wish him well in his future retirement and we would be grateful if he would extend our very best wishes to his distinguished and wonderful wife and family. I am honoured indeed to speak on this occasion- by chance only because some of my senior colleagues are not here. In making those comments, I know I speak for all honourable members. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) ( 10.54)- I wholeheartedly endorse the remarks made by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  about our wonderful friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I rose tonight to ask the Parliament to give some consideration to the morality level of our society. I believe that there is some evidence to suggest that it could be sinking. I refer to articles which I have taken at random from the newspapers. An article in the  Sunday  newspaper states: 
A police surgeon and police officers urged women rape victims this week not to report the attacks to the law. 
Their call comes in a startling, damaging attack on Australian police methods. 
One senior CIB sergeant said that he would not let his own daughter tell police if she were raped. 
Another article in the same newspaper is headed: 'Great Grandad Sam and the Schoolgirl . . . Illicit love in a garden shed'. A further heading states: 'Sexy trio bed down at the Forum. It's birds, boys and more birds in triple bill'. 
That is the type of thing one finds in ordinary papers. Of course, unfortunately we are also confronted with it on television programs when we go home at night and want to sit down to watch an evening's entertainment with our families. 
I particularly wanted to mention a newspaper called  Campaign  which has a heading 'Exploring your lifestyle'. I believe this newspaper is put out by a society called the Gay Liberation. If honourable members were to read the newspaper they would find that it was not very offensive, but unfortunately a lot of pictures contained in it are revolting. If these newspapers were at the newsagents one would not have to purchase them if one did not want to do so. What I am concerned about is that this issue was given to me by a Catholic priest. He objected to the fact that this was posted to a convent. I ask any Minister of the Government who has a responsibility in these matters to examine the circumstances. I am not saying that the society itself posted it to the convent but the convent received it in the post. I think it is going a little too far when people's freedoms are abused in this manner. If a person does not want to buy these newspapers he does not have to do so, but when such a newspaper is posted to a convent I think it is going a little too far. I ask those in authority to examine this matter to see whether they can keep up the standards of our society. 
I must say that this afternoon we have been treated to a very interesting speech from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  It is fascinating indeed to watch the representatives of the Australian Labor Party posing in Opposition as businessmen with the interests of Australia and our trading partners at heart, demonstrating to us that they are people concerned less with their socialism than they are with the vagaries of international trade. I must say that it was a remarkable speech. When I heard the honourable member for Corio being critical of the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who recently engaged in discussions with the Prime Minister of Japan, I could not help feeling that I had to remember those days when the honourable member for Corio was  Chairman  of Committees in this chamber and when the late Minister for Minerals and Energy was laying down the law to people in this chamber about the way in which trade should be conducted with Japan. I remembered the charm and the savoir faire with which he referred to Australian businessmen. I remember such delicate expressions as 'hillbillies' and 'hicks'. I can well recall that those comments were typical of the attitude of the Labor Government towards overseas trade in every area of the world. 
I can well remember that those people did enormous harm to Australia with their attitude towards the contracts that has been arranged by the businessmen of Australia, with the approval of the McMahon Government, right up until 1972. I point out that those criticisms that were made this afternoon by the honourable member for Corio were largely a matter of selection. They were a matter of choice as far as he is concerned in Opposition- a little bit like the wolf trying to get into the sheep's coat. Those of us who were here before the honourable gentleman who sits alone on the Opposition front bench can tell him that the Labor Party in opposition is an entirely different kettle of fish from the Labor Party in government. I can well remember the way in which those comments were made by the Prime Minister of that day, right down to most of his Ministers, perhaps with the exception of my old friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 
Having said that, I would like to make a few comments about these three departments. I lament the fact that we have only ten minutes in which to deal with the Department of National Resources, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. I want to ask the Government, as I have been asking it for a long time and as I will continue to do so long as I am in this place, to reconsider its attitude towards the exploration for oil and mineral resources within this country. I would have thought that because of my personal association I would be able at least to render some advice that was worthy of consideration. I believe that the history of Australia from 1957-58 through until 1968-69 demonstrated the wisdom of having encouragement for small Australian companies to go out into this country and search for minerals and petroleum so that they would be able to create a background upon which farmouts could be built and wealthy companies from overseas could be encouraged to come to Australia to help in development. This is an attitude of mind which is utterly foreign to my friends on the other side of the chamber. They believe in government ownership, direction and control of all of these assets. They believe that foreign companies ought to be kept out of Australia. Their lunacy was manifested in their conduct during the years from 1972 to 1975. 
For my part I believe that encouragement with tax deductions should be given to Australian companies to encourage the small investor in this community to spend his money on companies that are prepared to carry out appropriate programs and to seek the relevant licences and leases to do that. The Government through its Bureau of Mineral Resources and through its Department of National Development in the past, was able to be fairly sure that programs that were adopted and did attract financial assistance from the Government were programs that were worth while and had the technical approval of the Government's own experts. 
I turn now to the references that have been made to the United Kingdom and to the 
European Economic Community. Some of the comments that were made by my friend the honourable member for Corio and previous speakers are very difficult to understand in view of the traditional antipathy that the Labor Party has had to our international associates in the years from 1955 to 1972. I compliment the Government on having the wisdom to have one of our younger Ministers- an experienced negotiator, and experienced barrister- in Europe as Special Trade Negotiator. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  made some extraordinary references to Western Europe and Eastern Europe. I know, as he and I both representing this country at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in 1975, that his experience, like mine, has been that the protectionism within the European Economic Community in relation to agriculture and other forms of industry has to be seen to be believed. If he genuinely thinks that we can make penetration into Eastern Europe without running into conflict with Western Europe he should have another think because the facts are that Western Europe will act in the interests of Western Europe first, second and third. Those people in the United Kingdom who have been in conflict with the people within the European Economic Community for so many years will well know the truth of what I have just said. 
I believe that we should proceed as much as possible to establish bilateral arrangements with various countries in the American continent and in the continent of Europe. But I point out that in Western Europe in particular we will run into the protectionism which is so important to the Common Market, as it is called. If the countries comprising the Common Market have learned anything from their association over recent years it has been that success comes to those who stick together. As we all know, over the previous 250 years European nations spent most of their time tearing one another to pieces. They have found it eminently profitable to learn that success comes to those who stand together. I regret to say that in my opinion it will take a long time for Australians to be able to compensate for that matter of reality. 
I hope, as I have said before, that the Government will lend maximum support to the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations. I hope that the people of Australia will recognise that this is a unique appointment. I believe that the Government should go to great lengths to give the Minister all the support he needs. I believe that in matters of staff and expense it ought to be remembered that a great deal of the future for 
Australia will result from the success of the Minister in the next decade acting on behalf of our country overseas. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I have regard to his reply a few moments ago to the question about fuel costs. Is he prepared to make a statement in the House about the future of commuter airline services in Australia? Having regard to his reply about fuel costs, will he make clear to the House such predictions as may be available which may affect the economic viability of these companies in future, particularly as they are so vital and important to the areas outside the great metropolitan complexes of this country? 
It is rare for me to offer advice to the House on matters of this kind. 
If the honourable member wishes to submit a bill to Medibank he will not get any reference from me. I wish to support the comments of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  whether he would be kind enough to speak to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to this matter. I hold the view that what the honourable member for Corio has said is correct. Whilst it is true that the Foreign Affairs Department and the Defence Department have enormous areas which overlap a commonality of association, one with the other, it is understood in the processes of government that there should be a Department of Foreign Affairs and a Department of Defence. 
In the years during which we in this House have joined them in the committee sense we have become Jacks of all trades and masters of none. We should have people who are prepared to dedicate themselves to a particular function and be expert in that function. It will necessarily mean that if they have interests in other matters they will have to sacrifice them, because only 24 hours in a day are available to all human beings, including distinguished members of the medical profession. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen recent reports that the radar at Amberley Air Force base is virtually useless because of a spare parts shortage and could be out of operation for over 12 months? If this is true, can the Minister inform me of the effect on the operations of the Air Force base at Amberley and when he expects the radar to be operational? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in common with all other members of the House of Representatives, I would be grateful if you would convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his election once again to his high office and the recognition from  Her  Majesty the Queen of his great service to Australia and his high office.  Sir, I  hope that you, as a  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees, would be gracious enough to accept from me my congratulations on your elevation to your high office. I express also my gratitude to your predecessor, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He has been a distinguished member of the House of Representatives for many years. He is thought of by everybody with great affection. He is known to be a man of compassion and a man who has rendered great service to this country. 
I wish also to pay some compliment to the former honourable member for Herbert who retired from this House after having been a member of five Parliaments from 1966.  Major Bonnett,  who is better known in the House of Representatives and in Australia as Duke Bonnett, is a man who came to this House from the north of Queensland after a long and meritorious career in the Australian Army and who rendered in this House particular service on behalf of ex-servicemen. He was  Chairman  of the ex-servicemen's committee of the Government parties and was well and favourably known to all members of the House for the great work he did on a number of committees, particularly the 
Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation- the Jess Committeewhich looked into the defence forces retirement benefits scheme as it applied in the years before 1972. We will miss his presence in this Parliament for, as an honourable gentleman and a man interested in the welfare of his fellow Australians, he was certainly without peer in this place. 
I shall make some comments now about the political climate that was revealed by the remarkable result of the Federal elections held on 10 December 1977. It is my privilege to be in my ninth Parliament. It is a long time in which people can consider - 
I can appreciate the comment from my learned and compassionate friend, the honourable member for Scullin. Nevertheless, I feel I must make some comment about these circumstances because, by comparison, the results of general elections from 1949 onwards almost pale into insignificance. The truth of the matter is that when my friend the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  led his party to victory in 1972, references were made in the fourth estate to what was called a 'landslide' on behalf of the Labor Party. If I remember correctly, the Labor Party has a majority of nine seats over the coalition parties led by  Sir William  McMahon. 
But the 1975 and 1977 general election results were without parallel in the political history of this country. Try as members of the Opposition might to ignore the facts, there can be no doubt at all that the magnificent tribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in that result cannot possibly be ignored. The result was unprecedented in the history of political results involving the House of Representatives. It represented a total rejection of the Labor Party and the policies of that Party, a total rejection by the Australian community of policies which were profligate policies based upon the theory that government expenditure could be virtually unlimited. They were policies designed to put the Commonwealth Government into the position of being the most benevolent of employers. The then Prime Minister- I was here at the time so I can well recall what he said- put it this way: ' We shall lead the way so that conditions of service in the Commonwealth Public Service will be the best conditions of service in employment in Australia. 
At first glance, these opinions appear to be acceptable. It is only when they are translated into action that one realises the damage they create in the Austraiian economy. The fact of the matter is this: Foreign policies were rejected by the Australian people, foreign policies that were designed to lead Australia out of alignment with the United States of America, with the United Kingdom and with our allies of more than half a century. There is no doubt about this. Those of use who were here at that time will recall the most unfortunate, the most vulgar and offensive remarks made by Ministers of the Labor Government visiting the United Kingdom and the United States of America. There was the rejection by the Australian people of illconsidered and irresponsible decisions like the 25 per cent tariff cut across-the-board. If there was one action by the Labor Government which was more characteristic of lack of understanding and experience in the business world, and if there was one action which in fact did more harm to the Australian economy in such rapid time, I have yet to know what it was. It was a tragic decision. 
Then there was the rejection by the Australian people of the technique of government which permitted the attempted borrowing of $4,000m for 20 years under the title of a 'temporary loan'. Statements have been made in the House of Representatives which have led us to the conclusion that such an act by the Executive ought to be challenged in its basic integrity. But I do not do that. I simply say this: If the people of Australia elect a government, then that government, acting as it sees the best interests of Australia, should have the right to act in such a manner. But eventually, having called the tune, it must pay the piper's bill- and it was in December of 1975 that that bill was paid. 
I turn now to the Governor-General's Speech. I wish to make reference to several comments made by the Governor-General relating to the Government's policy on unemployment, in particular as it applies to young people. The Governor-General said this: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
My Government will continue to place a high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people's skills, and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise. 
Here is a demonstration both of the interest of the Government and, as I shall cite later, a complementary interest of private enterprise. I shall read to the House a statement made by my friend,  Mr Noel  Mason, the Executive Director of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales. I think it is interesting comment for the House to consider in relation to this important matter involving the unemployment of young people, to which reference has been made in this House in recent weeks.  Mr Mason  said: 
The Chamber is involved in a joint Federal and State Government task force which is examining ways of encouraging employers to take on more young people. 
In fact the initiative in this was taken by the Chamber itself last October when we wrote to all of our 3,500 member companies asking them to employ young jobless people where possible, as a matter of social responsibility. 
We are continuing to encourage our members to engage some of these young people. Even if each company could take on only one it would provide several thousand jobs. 
Certainly it would be an investment in Australia's future. We are a little too inclined to look at investment in material terms, such as investment in our coal and mineral resources. Of course our greatest assets are people, and we will need many trained and skilled young people in the work-force as business conditions improve. 
The time to start training is right now. 
Although the problem of the young unemployed is serious, we should not overlook the fact that a high proportion of all people between 16 and 20 are in jobs and making a useful contribution to the country 's future prosperity. 
When looking at the unemployment situation we should not ignore the good work that they are doing. 
The social problem lies with the others, many of whom ate out of work not only because of difficult times but because of discouragement, personal apathy, or because they have not been properly prepared by their schools or their families to go about the business of seeking employment. 
There is at least as much preparation needed for a job interview as for a football match. 
I believe that those comments which I have just read were worthy of being presented to the House because, to me, they are a manifestation of the self-interest that can be demonstrated in private enterprise. Private enterprise organisations have a total involvement in the prosperity of the Austraiian economy. I am not at all so sure that this can be said of socialist government enterprises in quite the same way. 
I move on very briefly to the subject of growth and development which is referred to in the Governor-General 's Speech: 
Encouragement of the North-West Shelf development and other natural resources projects will continue. Legislation will be introduced for a tax rebate scheme for shareholders subscribing funds for off-shore petroleum development and exploration. 
A question must arise about limiting the scheme to the off-shore areas. Why do we not include onshore areas? Prior to 1954, for many years, onethird of the funds so subscribed were deductible for income tax purposes. In later years all such funds were deductible but then the Labor Government abolished all incentives. Apparently the Labor Party really did not want small 
Australian companies to participate in the exploration industry. In the tragic period between 1972 and 1975 we witnessed the rapid destruction of the infrastructure of the Australian industry which was so slowly created and constructed between 1954 and 1972. Of course, major international companies were here in Australia and their contribution has been of enormous significance within the Australian industries dealing with the mining of all minerals and the exploration for deposits of oil and natural gas. I simply do not understand why the Labor Party should adopt such an attitude, unless it is wholly due to the Connor policies which were aimed at government ownership, direction and control of all the assets to which I have referred in this part of my speech. The mania of the doctrinaire socialist to destroy free, private enterprise is a sad mental malaise, and from 1972 to 1975 it was responsible for causing great harm in the Australian economy and nobody can deny that. In view of some of the comments about Premiers that were made this afternoon, I feel that those comments are fair and reasonable. 
In the last few minutes available to me in this debate I want to make some comments about defence policy and the problem of surveillance. The Australian Government faces this problem and the essence of the problem is finance. The task in Australia is enormous. The cost of the task, in its entirety, should not be charged against the Defence vote, in my judgment. We should consider establishing a special surveillance corps or coastguard and study the United States experience in this field. It must be admitted that this will be a very expensive project and possibly the total expense is beyond the Australian people in terms of priorities in considering all the other significant calls upon the public purse. There is no doubt that recent events should have convinced Australians that surveillance has become a very significant political matter. There is no doubt that we will have to concentrate on this area in the future and that it will be a highly expensive concentration. 
I reject the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  To me it seems extraordinary that the honourable member should move such an amendment which refers to a failure to deal adequately with record levels of unemployment because he and his Party made the greatest possible contribution to the development of those levels of unemployment. The amendment also refers to a failure to stimulate productive output, yet the honourable member sat in this House and heard his own leaders talking about the time having arrived in 1973 for a transfer of assets from the private sector to the public sector of the economy. He watched and heard those same people over a period of several years say in this House and elsewhere that one man's increase in pay was another man's job, and that it was not possible for the economy to be maintained in a viable state if the unions were to follow the policies that they were pursuing while the Labor Government was in office. In those circumstances the putting forward of an amendment of this description makes one wonder whether the Labor Party can be taken seriously at all. 
The amendment also states that the Labor Party believes that the Government has ignored the serious recession in the international economy. The Government is conscious all the time of what is happening in the international economy. In those countries where we have to penetrate markets if we are going to sell our goods- we must look to our own capacity to produce goods for sale on those markets- we must have, as we do at the present time, continuous dialogue with the countries and prevail upon them to recognise what can be described only as the need for a fair and just deal for Australia. We have provided immediate and long term guidelines for industry because industry must be aware of the fact that rising costs are its most serious problem. One would hope that a rational appreciation by the trade union movement of Australia's economic problems will lead to the adoption of sensible policies. I oppose this amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I support the motion which has been moved on behalf of the Government. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is there any truth in Fourth Estate suggestions that foreign secret service agents are  now  applying personally to the Prime Minister for visas to enter Australia for purposes of a vacational and vocational nature? 
I rise tonight in support of the Government and the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978, and refer to the beginning of the second reading speech in which the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  stated: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Atomic Energy Act 1953 as part of a package of legislation giving effect to the Government's decision on the further development of Australia's uranium resources. A fundamental element of the decision announced in this House on 25 August 1 977 was that development of the Ranger uranium deposit would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd. Amendments to the Act contained in this Bill will enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to participate on behalf of the Commonwealth in a joint venture with Peko-EZ. This is in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, which used the Atomic Energy Act as its legislative basis. 
As is the custom in this place, one must spend considerable time in debate, if it is to be coherent and reasonably mature- and let us hope rational- dealing with some of the matters put forward by members of the Opposition. Honourable members have listened in the last few minutes to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who kept reiterating that this Bill was from the Cold War period, as he described it, of 1953 and that in fact it was out of date and needed to be amended for a variety of reasons that he made clear to the House. I point out that it is, after all, only a few years ago that the Labor Government was in power. It is only a few years ago that the Labor Government made the decision to permit the current programs and contracts to be met as a result of mining in Australia. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that the Act is not workable in 1978 because, as I have just pointed out, it originated in 1953. He said it is 25 years old. Yet, as I have pointed out, only four years ago when honourable members opposite were in office the then Labor Government saw no real reason to alter drastically this Act, for the reasons that have been put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
Amongst other things he made reference to  Sir Marcus  Oliphant, who until recently was Governor of South Australia and one of Australia's very distinguished scientists in the nuclear field. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out, in 1953  Sir Marcus  stated that the great amount of uranium oxide to be mined in Australia presented Australia with an economic future of which the great majority of comparable nations would certainly be very envious. He then went on to say that  Sir Marcus  Oliphant has very different views in 1978. No attempt was made to put before the House any logical explanation as to why these views should have changed. It all seems to hinge around what one could describe reasonably and fairly as almost a psychotic reaction to fear in relation to the possible abuse and misuse of uranium oxide from Australia. I would have thought from what I have read of  Sir Marcus  Oliphant 's recent views that his concern applies less to uranium oxide than it does to homo sapiens or the human beings who are likely to be in a position to abuse and to misuse oxide produced in Australia. After all, it is a common enough error for people to look at potential weapons of violence and to look at the people involved and then, because of history, say to themselves that the weapons ought not to exist, whereas in reality what they should be saying to themselves is that the threat comes from the people to whom they have referred in their own minds. 
Reference was made to the Nuclear Guidelines Committee and to the test in India of a nuclear device for peaceful purposes. I answer that argument by pointing out to the House that since the British Government handed over control of the Indian sub-continent to India and Pakistan in 1 947, India has not been guilty of aggressive acts against neighbouring countries. India's record, in fact, is one of peace, although India was assailed many years ago from across its northern borders by the Government of the People's Republic of China. In those circumstances I think there is some reason to believe that the nuclear industry being developed in India has been demonstrated to be for peaceful purposes. Even though it took India 20 years to create the environment within which it could explode a device, it has still, in its own circumstances, proceeded to announce that its plans are peaceful and not identifiable with potential military aggression. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then went on to talk about Australia's responsibility being the equivalent of that of the United States, particularly after the export of the yellowcake uranium oxide had commenced. It is very difficult to follow that reasoning because in fact Australia, in the context of the relatively modern period extending from the present time to the turn of the century, can never assume responsibilities comparable to those of the United States under any circumstances. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition failed, in my judgment, to put before the House evidence to support his statement. 
He talked about the reactor at Jervis Bay and the fact that India had used a similar reactor for the production of the material from which the explosion of the nuclear device was arranged some years ago. I question that statement. Frankly, I think his statement is wrong. I understand, for example, that Australia's reason for moving away from the concept of a nuclear reactor was directly related to the enormous cost of such a venture. I think it is highly questionable that India had had a comparable reactor established in that country. I urge members of the House to consider that, as one used to say at school, cum grano salis- with a grain of salt. 
The interesting thing about the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in contrast to the speech of the former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  was the relevation that the Australian Labor Party has in mind plans which would almost certainly indicate that it envisaged the development of a uranium export industry and subsequently the establishment of a uranium industry development authority in this country. He referred to the need for a uranium industry development authority- an authority to be responsible for standards- thereby giving the indication that he had no confidence at all in Australian companies to maintain standards which would be acceptable within their own organisations and which would be to the advantage of their own people. I must explain to the House that the industrial infrastructure necessary to establish an industry of this description, highly technical as it is, is achieved only as a result of years of work and the expenditure of many millions of dollars. Those facts are cast aside with a reckless abandon and a complete lack of sensitivity to the facts. 
I would have thought that the truth of the matter would be that Austraiian companies, in defence of their own enormous investment, would need to maintain the highest standards. If in due course their shareholders are to earn the profits which have been referred to, those profits will be eyed with the customary greed by those in government who delight in taking from profit what is called the share for Consolidated Revenue. One may well hope that the standards will be high and the results will be successful. 
The Deputy Leader's last references to State rights and the federalism policy seemed to me to be almost absurd and purely political in their substance. It is an industry which requires, in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia, Commonwealth control and Commonwealth comprehension. Because the Commonwealth has under the Constitution responsibility for the maintenance of overseas trade, it is essential that the Commonwealth be the responsible authority for the government of the industry. 
Let me turn to the contrast between the speech made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and that made by the former Deputy Leader of the Opposition. We had put before us that psychosis to which I referred earlier. He talked of the danger of nuclear war. He did not go to any lengths to explain who the adversaries might be. He talked about industrial discipline, and the Government and its authorities using the heavy hand of government in order to maintain discipline within this industry. That was an interesting comment. In the years prior to the Second World War, and certainly subsequent to the Second World War, it became so clear that there were elements in this society at work to destroy the essence, the capacity and the efficiency of Australian industry that I can remember just prior to my first arrival in this distinguished House a whole page of the  Sydney Morning Herald  was taken to demonstrate that there were forces at work as a result of an international conspiracy whose purpose was to destroy the national economy of Australia. That page was dated July 1949 and I remind honourable gentlemen of the Opposition that the signatures at the bottom of that full page are those of Joseph Benedict Chifley and Herbert Vere Evatt. Just in case honourable members have forgotten those names I remind them that I am speaking of a former Prime Minister and a former AttorneyGeneral and Minister for External Affairs. 
My friend the honourable member for Ried indicating much misery and much disturbance at the potentialities of the nuclear industry, did not see fit to make any reference to the development of that industry in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He did not see fit to make any reference to the development of the industry in the People's Republic of China. He thought that any reference to those governments might put him in a position of criticism. It would seem to me to be reasonable to expect an honourable gentleman, so critical of his own Government, so mindful of the welfare and the safety of his own people, to point out that these industries have been developed to a great degree by potential adversary governments. 
I noted only the other day in the newspapers that a distinguished serviceman of the United Kingdom was making statements in Peking which appeared to be acceptable to his hosts, to the effect that having regard to the threat of a nuclear war the People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom should be seen as standing side by side against a potential adversary which he went on to name as the USSR. In the light of those circumstances, in the light of reality and in the light of Australia's future, it is beyond doubt absurd and against the interests of Australia to do anything other than to encourage confidence in the future of this country among all its people. Today 4000 million mouths are opening and closing on this earth. It is predicted by world authorities that in 25 years there will be 8000 million people on this earth. In those circumstances it would be only the bravest of men who would contend that such an environment would offer no problem for a future government of Australia. It would be a brave man indeed who would not recognise that in the essential interests of the young people of today and of their children and their grandchildren, it would be a vital and absolute necessity that the capacity of the Australian nation be developed to the maximum degree. 
It is absolutely essential for the future that Australia's capacity to help within the region be enhanced to the highest possible degree. Certainly, one way to strike at that future development was made clear for all to read in 1949 by the late right honourable gentlemen to whom I referred earlier. They talked about an international conspiracy designed to destroy the future development of Australia. I say to those concerned about people and the threat of terrorism that reference to terrorists, nuclear industry and nuclear weapons is manifestly absurd. 
Weapons are available which offer a greater degree of terror than nuclear weapons. I am referring to chemical warfare weapons and weapons which may be used to destroy whole populations. If they can be secured then without doubt they are the weapons that should be feared should they fall into the hands of terrorists. The terrorist as I see him will not come equipped with highly technical weapons. To suggest that is nothing but unadulterated drivel. What the terrorist will do is the sort of thing that is happening in Italy today. That is the kind of man we will have to cope with in the future, not someone armed with an atomic bomb. 
Bearing those things in mind I ask the Opposition to review and to reveal the reality of its argument. Tell us more about the uranium development authority. Tell us more about the thinking that Opposition members have put into the provision of isotopes, supplies and standards that they have thought about and have had in mind in their own committees. Let us have the truth, for it is quite clear at least from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that the reality is that the Australian Labor Party is well aware of the fact that there will be a uranium industry and that there will be plans for its development in the future. I conclude by saying that a lot of balderdash has been spoken in relation to this issue. I am absolutely in support of what the Government is doing. I hope it will get on with the job and do it a bit more quickly. 
-I shall take only a few moments of the time of the House in supporting the comments that have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  and the other speakers who have made a contribution this afternoon. I was privileged in three parliaments- the nineteenth, the twentieth and the twenty-second parliaments, between 1949 and 1958- to sit in this place behind the former right honourable member for Kooyong, Robert Gordon Menzies. I agree with all of the comments that have been made because most of them have been made at the personal level, having regard to personal contacts. I felt that my contribution might be of a slightly more personal nature by my pointing out that, apart from his greatness, apart from his statesmanship, apart from those great qualities to which we have paid respect this afternoon, he was a very human person. He had a great sense of humour. He was not without some familiarity with personal physical suffering, and in his family life from time to time he was subjected to great stresses that were tragic in their nature. I say this because I know that these pressures had to be faced coincidentally with the great struggle to lead this nation of ours along the proper path. He also had to sustain his family. He had the support of that great lady, Dame Pattie, whom the great majority of people who have known her will always respect. I can say that over the many years since 1949 I have never heard one single word of criticism of that magnificent lady. 
As I have said, the former Prime Minister was a man with a great sense of humour. He was a raconteur and after dinner speaker par excellence. On suitable occasions he could talk to members of the Parliament about great figures in other parliaments, such as Lord Birkenhead. He talked about cricketers with an affection that was unrivalled. In my judgment he understood so much about the game of cricket that one would believe that had it been possible for him to be a cricketer, he could have known distinction in that field. 

 Mr Speaker, I hope that you will convey my comments to Dame Pattie and to  Sir Robert's  family. He lived to a great age, after all, from 1894 to 1978. It was with great satisfaction that he would have witnessed his own family growing up and expanding, the growth and the development of his grandchildren and his family embarking upon a road of distinction. I am happy that that is the case, and I am sure we all are. 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform this House whether the Government proposes to take or has taken any action in respect of the decision of the South Australian Government to introduce a  37Vi  hour working week into the power industry in that State? 
-I shall not follow the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who took us away from the main train of debate on the national economy to deal with the subject of transport, an area for which he is the Opposition's shadow Minister. Whilst I do not criticise him for doing that, I simply point out that in the circumstances it is not possible for me to follow the speech that he made as I wish to return to the other significantly issues that were raised in the debate previously. The only comment I make about the honourable member for Shortland is that it is a great pity that he spoilt his speech by the reference at the end to the purchase at some future time- when someone discovers some suitable models- of a couple of Boeing aircraft for travel overseas by Australian Prime Ministers and important people. 
As we have been told earlier, Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) provide funds for maintaining the services of the Government from 1 July 1 978 to 30 November 1 978. As is the general practice, it is expected that the Appropriation Bills, which form part of the Budget which we all hope and pray will be introduced in the middle of August this year, will have been enacted by 30 November 1978. The sums of money involved are, of course, enormous. In terms of recent history that is not surprising. An amount of $3, 844m is provided for the ordinary annual services of the Government. This is 9 per cent greater than the amount provided in Supply Act (No. 1) of 12 months ago. In introducing Supply Bill (No. 1 ) the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
I wish to emphasise that the Supply Bills are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included for any particular service in the 1 978-79 Budget. The provisions in these Bills are based wholly on current expenditure levels and have no regard whatever to policy decisions to be taken in the context of next year's Budget. When the Budget is passed - that will be towards the end of November- the appropriations in the Bills will be subsumed by the appropriations in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79. 
One could regard that as an exercise in semantics. The fact is that a great deal of information is contained in explanatory notes about the sums of money which have been appropriated at present. I think that my colleagues the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  made it quite clear that Australia's economic problems are manifested in these enormous sums of money. Although they may have no particular reference to policies, undoubtedly in total they represent significant sums of money for the Australian people. 
I want to make some reference, for the benefit of my friends in the Opposition who have been creating some misery here this evening, to bulletin 295 of the Australian Industries Development Association which all members will have received today. The opening comment is worthy of record. It states: 
It is almost comforting to record that, in the Australian economy at the moment, 93 per cent of those who claim a desire to work are able in fact to find it. In view of the complex range of skills, aptitudes, attitudes, locations and other characteristics in respect of which meaningful employment is required, the recent performance of the Australian labour market deserves perhaps more credit than many would give it. 
I think that is a fair and reasonable statement having regard to what has been said by people in the Opposition here tonight. 
The Australian Industries Development Association, a body well known to the honourable member, a body which is interested in establishing the facts in the Australian economy. 
I want to turn to a particular aspect of recent times and to consider some of the foreign policy developments, their trends for the future and how they may affect our economy. I point out that if these aspects of the future are considered they may give us some reason for concern. As my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  would know, although the impact of the closing down of the war in Vietnam in 1972 may have been greeted with relief by many people, it must have had a considerable economic impact upon South East Asia. Undoubtedly it had an impact upon the Association of South East Asian Nations. At about that time there was a change of government in Australia. Within six months of the change of government in this country in 1972, the Government led by the then Prime Minister  Mr Whitlam  had reduced tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. I wonder whether those circumstances, which have led correspondingly to increased pressure from the countries in the ASEAN group to seek an increased allocation for their imports into the Australian economy, can be identified as being associated at that time with the decision of the Australian Government. I do not think that any of my friends opposite would question the fact that the 48,000 people who went out of employment in the textile industry so quickly over a period of 12 months went out as a result of the decision made by the Whitlam Government. After all, it was as a result of an Industries Assistance Commission report in which the precise figures were quoted that the Government gave consideration to the matter and arrived at its conclusion. 
The fact is that, as the years go on and technical capacity increases, from within the ASEAN group in our own region will come greatly increased pressure upon Australia to open up the Australian economy for the goods produced in those countries. As all honourable members know, they are produced at levels that are considerably less costly than corresponding levels in this country, and I refer also to Japan in that respect. I believe that the Australian economy will have to become far more efficient. It will have to face up to the fact that if we are to trade substantially within the Pacific area and the South East Asian region we will have to accept an ever increasing number of imports from those countries. With our present high cost levels it seems to me quite inconsistent to ignore those facts, and to be seeking continually to increase costs in Australia on a basis of humanity and justice. The reality is that Australia will have to face the facts of the future, and in my judgment we are going to find it very difficult over the next decade. 
It seems to me that, as has been said by my colleagues and friends the learned honourable member for Berowra and the honourable member for Moore, the Government must adhere to its present policies. Those policies are consistent with the statements made only a few years ago by the leaders of the Labor Party. What was said in Adelaide by the then Prime Minister was true. Every man's pay rise is another man's job. We heard the former distinguished and popular Treasurer, the former member for Melbourne Ports, repeating that if an increase were put into the economy by the arbitration system then the impact would be upon those who were already unemployed and who were seeking further employment. Again he said that one man's pay rise is another man's job. You cannot have your cake and eat it too. If there is veracity, if there is validity, in what was said by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Crean,  then it ought to be recognised by both sides of the House. We should try to understand that our policies will have to be considered in relation to rising costs and to the pressures that will be forthcoming from our own region. 
The facts that have been put forward by the Australian Industries Development Association over a long period, and they are well known to all members of the House, indicate that employment has grown slowly in the 1970s, especially in the last three years. Despite equal pay and the decline of some female labour intensive industries, the proportion of females in total employment has advanced throughout the 1970s. That is an interesting fact because one would have thought that the greatly increased cost of female employment would have had an adverse effect upon that employment. Government employment surges ahead even now, despite official indications of public sector restraint. Private employment, especially in manufacturing, continues to decline and it remains difficult to identify any clear private growth industries. That must be true because, if there is going to be advancement within the nations that constitute our region, if there is going to be advancement in the economies of the People's Republic of China, Japan, the Philippines, and those other countries to which I have referred, it will be in the manufacturing area. It is in the manufacturing area, where their costs are so much lower, that they are going to provide intense competition for us. In those circumstances, it seems clear to me that our road for the future will be difficult and that the Government will find it necessary to adhere to its existing policies. I understood from the  Deputy  Whip that arrangements were being made for me to share some time with another  speaker. 
Invited by my colleague from Wills, I ask him to deal with some of these matters when he speaks because I know that he has had a great deal of experience in Asia. I well recall that when his own Party was in government or about to go into government he formed some very definite views about what was happening in the military sense in the Indo-Chinese peninsula. He got himself into some political bother with some of his colleagues because of his robust and very intelligent contribution to the public debate at that time. 
As honourable members on this side of the House have said, we ran into our great problem in the 1973-74 year. It was at that time that real wages were given such an enormous boost, albeit with sincerity, by the socialist government that had come into power. It was done in such a way, and I quote from my recollections of the first Treasurer's speech that I heard while sitting on the other side of the House, as to transfer assets from the private sector to the public sector. There was then an enormous increase in government expenditure, and it was stated that the standards for the civil service ought to be put to a level that would be pace-setting. The previous Prime Minister was very fond of phrases such as that, and he was talking about setting the pace. There was never any reference to the cost, and the cost always has to be seen as the cost to be borne by the people of Australia. Although one can see some justice in the comment that the present Government has been in power since 1975 and that it is well into the third calendar year since then, the fact remains that the great harm done to the Australian economy was in fact done from the end of 1972 to the end of 1975. The truth of the matter is that it takes a great deal more time to build up an economy, which is always sensitive and always fragile, when it has been struck the sorts of violent blows that were struck in those years. I have never believed that those things were done with deliberation. I believe that they were done simply because it was felt that there ought to be a great increase in expenditure, that the country was so wealthy it could face all sorts of problems and deal with them all at once. I believe that all of those things were felt with sincerity by the Opposition party when it was in government. But the truth is that the effects of its policies were as I have just stated. 
I have no doubt that within these next two Budgets the Australian Government will have to retain the firm hand that it has been exerting upon the Australian economy in recent years. Any tendency to relax that firm control would be disastrous for Australia and would lead to the emergence once again of inflation which, if it is properly understood, is simply another form of taxation upon all the assets of the people of the nation, which have been acquired after a lifetime of work. I believe it would be a tragedy for people who spent a lifetime earning the right to superannuation pensions, earning the right to accumulate their assets and owning their own homes to see a situation in which the value of the currency and their assets is so diminished that in fact at the end of their lives they finish with a greatly reduced result from the efforts they put forward during a lifetime. This is the tragedy of believing that one can have his cake and eat it too. The reality is that one cannot do that. As I think one of those gentlemen with a tendency towards the shek phrases said, there is no such thing as a free dinner. The fact is that it can always be had at someone else 's expense. 
In this country, in this context and in this region if one looks around at the millions of people who surround us, I give the warning that we are the wealthy people who will be expected to carry a far greater degree of the burden in the future. Four thousand million mouths are opening and shutting on this earth tonight and it is popular knowledge that within 25 to 30 years 8,000 million mouths will be opening and shutting on this earth. The World Health Organisation is not an organisation that would be sneered at by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and I recommend that he study its predictions for the turn of this century and to bear in mind that 14 million people living as we are on this continent with the great assets that there are to be developed here in minerals, including uranium and oil and in development to take place, we will need every effort that can be put forward by our small population to develop our great and mighty country. If we do not prove to be worthy of our heritage there will be great misery ahead for us because we will be expected to carry at least a fair share of the burden of the miseries of the underdeveloped world which surrounds us to the north and the west. 
It is not the easiest picture to look to in the future but it will be dealt with properly only if it is done with sagacity, responsibility and courage. I put it to honourable members that by 'courage' in the political sense I mean the courage of acceptance of political unpopularity. If there is one government that has done this in recent times surely it is the Government that we sit behind tonight. I take the view that that Government should be supported. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to reports concerning an inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to which public reference has been made by the  Chairman  of the Commission. Can the Minister indicate whether an inquiry is contemplated, in view of the fact that a royal commission is the only process available to the Government? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services table research papers analysing the distribution proposals of the five States other than Queensland which were sent to the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commission in each State? 
-I support the Government in this legislation. I will vote against the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Some of the comments made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  ought to be answered. I have taken part in most of the debates on these subjects during the period of over 20 years in which I have been in this place. Whilst there might have been criticism of the Australian Labor Party's period in government, it would be fair to say that when the honourable member for Hughes was the Minister for Housing and Construction he was never accused of lacking sincerity or dedication in the job he was trying to do. I cannot recall his ever being accused of lacking in compassion and interest for the welfare of ex-servicemen. 
However, during the period in which he was privileged to be in the Government an incredible inflationary process began in this country which produced a cost problem for the building industry without parallel in the history of this nation. There is no doubt that during the period in which Labor was in power the costs of production in housing rose enormously. One of the reasons for the malaise from which the building industry now suffers is that it is unable to produce at a reasonable costing level by comparison with the rest of the Australian community. I believe that my colleague the honourable member for Hughes made it clear that he would have liked to pursue this matter for the whole of Australia. That of course is just a bland way of saying that he would like to nationalise the entire building industry. If one were to control the whole of the building industry and the banking industry in this country one would be able to provide, at a certain level of cost, homes for all people who needed them. This is the sort of pie in the sky that the honourable gentleman would like to adopt as national policy. The problem is that it cannot be done at a cost consistent with the ability of the nation to pay. 
Now we have our friends from the Labor Party complaining bitterly about the Budget which has been recently introduced because it recognises that there has to be a rationalisation of costs in an economy like the Australian economy. As my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  told the House, this program began many years ago and in an environment within which the circumstances were utterly different from those that exist in 1978. In 1918, when people were returning from the World War of 1 9 14- 1 8, the situation was that the Australian economy had boomed throughout the period of that war. In the years before 1 920 it faced a period of prosperity compared with the period that had existed before the outbreak of the war. It was decided that the servicemen, most of whom had suffered economically as the result of their period in the armed forces, because they had been in the battle in the Middle East or in France, would be entitled to an amount of money to assist in the provision of a home. These were men who would marry and raise the families of the future. They were loaned money and they had to pay it back. One might wonder whether the Labor Party ever expressed the view that it ought to have been a gift from a grateful nation and not simply a loan to assist them in the process of establishing a home. 
It is interesting to note, as the Minister told us, that since the inception of the scheme, some 340,000 people have been assisted with these loans, the great majority of them having been granted in the period after World War II. Eighty per cent of the loans have been at the $15,000 level. The honourable member for Hughes pointed out, quite rightly, that it was during the period in office of the Whitlam Government that these loans were increased in size enormously. He neglected to say that there was an absolute necessity for this to occur because people would not have been able to provide homes for their families on the previous level of loan. 
I can well understand the honourable gentleman feeling frustrated about these things. After all, he was the Minister at that time and he understands that there has to be a limit to what is available in the public purse. The national tragedy for this country and for this Parliament is that that was a lesson which between 1 972 and 1 975 was ignored. Members of the previous Government behaved like the bunch of profligate people who believed that Pandora's box contained unlimited sums of money and that the taxpayers of this country could provide production levels which would allow the Government to increase deficits, and spend $6,000m that it did not have. 
It is a great pity that the honourable member did not spend more time in Damascus when he was there. However, let me continue. In the period, which I can well remember, when the Labor Party was in government after the Second World War had ended, there was such a tremendous demand for loans for servicemen. Because of the shortage of funds and because of government economic policy at the time there was an enormous waiting list for loans, and that continued through the period after 1949 when the Menzies Government started and the Chifley Government went into opposition. The truth of the matter is that the waiting period at that time was in direct ratio to the demand. The reason why there was a waiting period for the servicemen is that if you expand the area from within which the demand can come, you will increase the demand, and the sums of money that are available in the budgetary process will run out. Those sums of money will be used during the period of the financial year and consequently some sort of priority list will have to be established. 
I take the view that in the original concept the scheme was intended for people who had had, in practical terms, operational experience. In those days operational experience was a very real thing. Many of the ex-servicemen applying for loans were sailors. The vast majority of them were soldiers who had fought in the Middle East or on the battlefields of France. The great majority of these people had come from an environment, prior to 1914, which generally speaking would certainly not have equipped them to purchase, almost ad lib, homes for their families when they returned to Australia. Now the whole concept has altered altogether and people are assuming that such an entitlement should exist for people who served, whether or not they had any bullets fired at them. That is a remarkable change from the outlook which had existed in the first place. It seems to me that if people are entitled to a loan under the original concept in relation to war service, that entitlement ought to be protected against competition for the existing funds by those with lesser service or nonoperational service. That is the reason why I have taken the view that when the Government made its decision some years ago to extend loans to members of the regular forces it did the wrong thing. 
I also take the view that in the War itself, when the Labor Party was in government- I remind my honourable friend of this- the people who were in the regular forces were covered by the repatriation and war service homes schemes only after 7 December 1941 or if they had gone from Australia as regular soldiers to serve in the 6th Division in the Middle East in the fighting against the Germans at that time or to serve in the Navy at sea. It was not applicable to regular servicemen engaged on home service here in Australia or in the Darwin area, for example. As we have been told, 80 per cent of the loans are now for $15,000 or more. The rates of interest applying are 3% per cent on $ 12,000 and 7.5 per cent on $3,000. Those are eminently fair and reasonable figures and they are of substantial value. In fact, from my knowledge of the exservicemen's organisations I believe that if the 
Government were to interfere with those figures there would be the most sensitive reaction indeed. That simply makes it clear that members of ex-servicemen's organisations, like the rest of the community, have, in the words of the old Labor Party chieftain, a highly sensitive hip pocket nerve and therefore will react. 
I hold the view that it is a fair and reasonable judgment that the people serving in the professional services ought to serve for at least six years before being entitled to a loan. It is also my view that there ought to be two lists and that those who have an entitlement under the original concept of this scheme ought to be recognised as having such an entitlement and ought not to be pushed off on to a waiting list by people who do not have a comparable degree of entitlement. In my judgment, that is a fair and reasonable proposition. Certainly I recognise and admit the point that was made by my friend, the honourable member for Hughes, and after the National Service Act was abolished by the Labor Government that Government sought to encourage people to render service in the armed forces in every possible way it could. One of the incentives offered was the entitlement to the defence service homes loan. 
The cost of insurance cover has increased, as has almost every other cost in this country. That is the real reason why legal fees for loans and insurance are being introduced. It is all part of the costing program. These costs were relatively small between 1920 and 1940 and in the period soon after the Second World War. In recent years the costs have assumed a considerable level of impact upon the Government. In any parliamentary debate it is always easier to say that one would rather not see a fee installed than to say that one would rather see a fee installed. I lament the fact that there is a need for the $75 fee to be paid. I have no doubt that the Corporation takes the view that these costs are rising to such a degree that the rise ought to be recognised and that therefore there are reasonable grounds for this fee to be introduced. 
As I said earlier, quite a number of people in the Regular Army are reaching the end of their period of service. These people certainly would have served in Vietnam. Some of them would have served in Malaya. Some of the very senior ones would have served in Korea. I think very few people who served in the Second World War would still be in the Army; most would have passed retiring age. I think it is important that the Government bear in mind that the people who have an established entitlement in the original sense of the legislation ought to be recognised as being in a category different from but not necessarily superior to those who have no comparable or similar service. I repeat that that is my view. I support the Government on this measure. I hope that I have answered in some degree the complaint that my colleague on the other side of the Parliament lodged. I think in all fairness that most ex-servicemen would compliment him upon his period as a Minister. In my judgment very few were as highly critical as he seems to suspect they may have been. 
I support the Budget introduced by the Government on 15 August 1978. I wish to say one or two things about some of the comments that were made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who has just resumed his seat. He is a doctrinaire socialist and is well-known in this House for his many speeches dealing with what he describes as monopoly capital, clandestine global marketing conspiracies and big corporations which control world markets. Phrases of this kind abound in his remarks. Most people in this country think that statements of this nature are grossly exaggerated and that they constitute, from the socialist point of view, the constant criticism of the capitalist economies. We are familiar with the honourable member's attitude towards uranium mining and the export of uranium ore and the large opposition, which he said is growing within Australia, to this mining and export. It seems to me to be extraordinary for the honourable member to be upset about the socialisation of the means of distribution, exchange and marketing to which he has referred. He is doing all that he can to prevent Australia developing a nuclear industry. Yet he has made no criticism of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People 's Republic of China. 
It seems to me that if there are two classic illustrations of the great socialist state, they would be the USSR and the People's Republic of China. Those countries seem to be moving as fast as they can towards the development of nuclear industries and they do not seem to be very concerned about the welfare of their citizens during that process. One might be led to the conviction that their analyses and their studies have brought them to the conclusion that they ought not to worry. When those people who would prevent the development of this industry in Australia consider these matters, they might realise that they are open to the charge of trying to assist countries which are developing their own uranium industries at the expense of their people. One wonders whether the real motives of people seeking to prevent the development of a nuclear industry in Australia can be given the closest scrutiny. 
During the 23 years from 1949 to 1972, the Australian economy experienced years of prosperity without comparison during any similar period in the history of the nation. Looking as far back in history as the years of the World Depression it is fair to remind Australians, particularly members of the Labor Party, that in 1937, when unemployment levels were higher than 10 per cent of the work force, the trade unions sought a prosperity loading from the arbitration court of the day. I point out that a study of Australian political and economic history over the last 50 years is a worthwhile experience for those people who are trying to make an objection assessment of the present economic environment in this country. 
In 1972, the Labor Party won the treasury bench of this House with the slogan- a manifestation at the highest intellectual level- 'It's Time'. The Labor Party sought the sympathy of the nation after nine consecutive defeats, and it sought that sympathy successfully. When we came back to this place in 1973,  Mr Gough  Whitlam was Prime Minister and his Government had a majority of nine members. I can recall the newspapers talking about a massive landslide to the Labor Party. The processes which have led to the economic malaise in Australia with which we are all familiar today were started in 1973. Throughout 1973 and 1974, the great achievements of  Sir William  McMahon were undermined by the policies of the Labor Government. The enormous increases in government expenditure and the deliberate policy of pacesetting with the Commonwealth Public Service led to the wage explosion which led to the tragic economic circumstances of 1975, with levels of unemployment in terms of percentages of the work force unknown since July 1949. Honourable members opposite may or may not like to remember that that is when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  had to put the army into the New South Wales coal mines to keep power available to industry in New South Wales. In my view, the policies of the Labor Party were based upon sincerely held convictions in 1972 and 1973. It is only fair to acknowledge that the decisions of the oil producing and exporting nations had very serious effects throughout the Western world and, of course, in Japan. These problems had their effect upon the Australian economy just at the time when the profligate policies of the Labor Government were responsible for the symptoms of inflation and economic tragedy with which we are all so familiar today. Frankly, I suspect that the Labor Government's ministerial decisions were taken from time to time in circumstances of conflict because, apart from the professionals in the civil service, it had surrounded itself with academics who were anxious to try policies that had never been put through the crucible of the commercial world. 
Let me turn to some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Budget. It has been said that the income tax surcharge of 1.5 per cent, which is for 1978 and 1979 only, has cancelled out most of the benefit conferred by tax indexation and the rate changes introduced by the Fraser Government in recent years. This criticism is quite invalid and untrue. The truth is that revenue from income tax will be more than $3,000m less than it would have been at the rates introduced in August 1975 by the then Labor Government's Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is now the Leader of the Opposition in this place. 
I have noted with great interest in recent times some of the letters to the editor in the newspapers. I shall quote from a letter by one who was previously recognised as being associated with the Australian Labor Party during the 1950s and 1960s. I refer to a distinguished professor in Canberra, Professor H. W. Arndt. He had this to say: 
Even the Labor Government had become aware of the very serious problem of cost and abuse presented by Medibank in its original form and would certainly have introduced drastic changes had it stayed in power. 
The new version may well be debatable because, costs having been reduced, it will be possible for some people to avoid joining one of the health funds, to avoid insuring their own health, to avoid insuring against the possibilities of sickness as they would rather spend their money on something else. This will leave those people in a position where an absolute minimum level of protection will be provided for them but they will be able to avoid further expenditure. Professor Arndt continued: 
The new version is debatable, but may well prove an improvement on the previous experiments. 
Finally, social service payments: Most of the changes in the last two years, especially the move from dependants' allowances under income tax to child endowment- 
That is, the family allowance-  have shifted the major benefit from middle-class beneficiaries to the really needy poor. No wonder there are so many complaints from the trendy middle class. 
Labor Governments have to buy middle-class votes; they do not need to spend money on the poor since the poor can be expected to vote for them anyhow. Conservative governments are not in that position. 
That is an interesting comment indeed from a distinguished academic. 
In the last few minutes available to me I want to make some comments about alterations that the Government has made to repatriation legislation for veterans who have been cured of tuberculosis. I want it to be clearly understood by all who can hear me that people who are suffering from active pulmonary tuberculosis, irrespective of whether they are servicemen, are got out of the community and put away because they represent a public health risk. So I am not referring to someone in that category. I am not referring to former prisoners of war. They are all out of it. I am also not referring to the World War I ex-servicemen, all of whom are quite elderly people. The latest figures available- that is, for 1976- show that there are 798 tuberculosis pensioners from the First World War, 6,124 from the Second World War and 20 1 from the KoreaMalaya Vietnam war and that there are 387 exservicewomen who are tuberculosis pensioners. It is interesting to note that these women, representing the three armed services, were placed in circumstances during the period of the great wars whereby they could be subject to the threat of this dreadful disease. The important thing is that the Government in its wisdom or in the wisdom of someone who has decided for the Government- one can never be too sure of these things, and in this world and in this place it is often not the wisest thing to translate most statements without taking them with a grain of salthas decided to review these cases. 
Where the automatic decisions have been eliminated we must make certain that in every case there will be an assessment appeal tribunal. It is vital that every aspect of the individual exserviceman's background be reviewed whether or not he has been cured for 25 years, is earning $30,000 a year at present and is unencumbered by any form of misery or necessity to have any medical treatment. He must have an opportunity to have his entire background reviewed and an assessment appeal tribunal must be appointed to look into each case. If this is done then we can be quite sure that there will be no riding roughshod over these people, denying to them their rights. It is fair and appropriate that this should be said. I hope it will be understood by all in the Parliament. I hope that everyone will agree that each individual review should be carried out by an assessment appeal tribunal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order. The honourable member's time has expired. 
-As the member for North Sydney and as this proposal affects the electorate of North Sydney, I have requested permission to make one or two comments on this proposal. I would like to extend my thanks to the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  and to his colleagues the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and  Senator Jean  Melzer from Victoria, who for two days conducted a public hearing in 
Chatswood in the electorate of North Sydney and allowed the local residents to put their views side by side with those of the local government authority- the Willoughby Muncipal Council. His Worship the Mayor and the aldermen of that Council are also to be thanked because they made available the facilities of their civic centre and their council chambers to the representatives of the Commonwealth Parliament during the period of the hearing. The hearing went on to quite a late hour during the two days of sitting and gave a fair opportunity to local people to come and express their points of view. I think that it would be fair to say that nobody has questioned the need for a national acoustics laboratory and an ultrasonics institute. Everyone was convinced that the decisions taken relating to this institute and the laboratory were essential. Anyone who had studied the present position of those facilities at Circular Quay would want to see them moved from that appalling situation as quickly as possible. 
The report of the Committee has brought the local objections very much to the attention of the Parliament. The report refers to Greville Street as a narrow carriageway. I believe that does indicate that the  Chairman  and his colleagues are not without a limited sense of humour because, in my view, to describe it as a carriageway at all is a slight over-statement. In fact, at its narrowest point it is only 8 yards or, according to my calculations, 7.3 metres wide. At its widest point it is about  9Vi  yards wide. It is an old road in a residential area. The people who live there are going to learn to hate members of the House of Representatives with a good and steady hatred over a period of some 12 months while this construction takes place because the area will be blasted and people will be subjected to noise and great irritation from large trucks containing concrete charging around their quiet residential areas. With all the best intentions in the world of the Department of Construction and those companies employed by the Department to do this work, I have no doubt at all that they still will not be able to protect those people from the misfortunes about which they are concerned. 
I noted in paragraph 55 of the report that the Crown Solicitor had advised that the original defence acquisition was in 1915 and in 1917 was a lawful acquisition for a public purpose and that therefore there does not appear to be any constitutional or legal reason why the Commonwealth should not use the land for any purpose within its competence under the Constitution. I cannot help but feel that if there were some people in that area who were wealthy enough to contest that in the High Court of Australia that statement might be shown to be not as careful as it ought to have been. It says that there does not appear to be any constitutional or legal reason. It may be that such a testing would indicate otherwise. 
However, the main thing I want to do is plead with the Minister for Construction to advise the Government that there will be a real danger for certain adults, such as elderly people, and for children. I hope that the Commonwealth will recognise that the Commonwealth may be involved in litigation if injuries are sustained or if death by accident occurs during this traumatic period. I put these words on record because I believe that that period will be an acute danger period for the residents. I am doing so, knowing that my remarks will be on the record, in the hope of reminding the Commonwealth that a decision has been made in the national interest which is undoubtedly going to cause a great deal of misery to those local residents for a period. 
The whole area consists of about 8 acres or 3.44 hectares of open land. It has been used by children in the area over a long period. It was originally a rifle range. That in the long run it will be put to a very sound and useful purpose I believe no rational person could deny. I am quite sure that when the National Acoustics Laboratory and the Ultrasonics Institute are completed and we have been through the misery of the construction it will be in the best interests of the people of Australia. I bring these matters to the Minister's attention. I believe they should be placed on the record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister concerned about trade figures which were released yesterday and their implication in particular for the future of the Australian economy? Can he indicate what action the Government can take in an effort to redress this situation? 
-There is no man in this Parliament to whom I can honestly pay greater personal respect than I pay to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr 
Stewart). He is a brave and gallant Austraiian who fought in the Battle. We few, we band of friends, have sat in this place and watched the various governments over the years. We know full well that there have been arguments about an entitlement to speak. 
The honourable member may make rude remarks about British regiments, but let me tell him that they are regiments who fought for his country. I hold the view, side by side with the honourable member for Grayndler, that one may not make rude remarks about the Irish or the Welsh or the Scottish regiments. Speaking as a Scot, I want it to be understood in this place that the great vulgarity we find in our democracy is an apprehension and an understanding that we must all see to be related to secrecy. My friend the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  I say 'my friend'- will not stand up in this House and contradict that remark. My friend the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has had the ability and the quality and the understanding to be in this place for some time and with other people on occasions he has been able to appreciate these problems. If we are to be faced by problems which the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  for example, might find so difficult, then let us understand that we are going to become a group of people divided and afflicted by difficulties, and we should not be. We are a nation. We belong together and we have an understanding. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  There is no point of order. 
-I should have thought that in that event my colleague and friend from a distant part- I understand it is either Bucharest or Romania- might have been a little more vulgar in his assessment of me. Let me make it clear that my ancestors came from Scotland and my ancestors stood to fight Bonaparte on the dawn of 18 June. 
I ask the Prime Minister Will the Government's policy be affected by the statement made by the executive officer of the New South Wales Permanent Building Societies Association last week that society interest rates may not be reduced in spite of the moves announced at the same time last week by the savings banks? 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is in a position to advise the House about resignations of professional officers from the Services, and whether he has had reports about morale and the concern of these officers regarding the future of the career concept within the armed Services. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen reports in the media to the effect, firstly, that the DDG class destroyer with all its sophisticated weaponry could not sink a 63-year-old barge off Sydney recently and, secondly, that the FFG patrol frigates currently on order from the United States of America have been referred to as 'cheap kill' ships because they can be knocked out by a rifle bullet or shock from an underwater explosion? Are these reports true? If not, can the Minister assure the House that these ships form a credible part of our naval defence? If this is the case, will the Minister be gracious enough to inform the media- I understand they are known by that name in this country- of a story about a Dutch admiral and a broom and an English admiral and a whip? 
-I join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and all my other colleagues and friends in expressing my deepest sympathy and condolences to  Mrs Stewart  and her family at the sad passing of her husband. I was privileged to be a member of this House when the  Hon.  Dan Mulcahy passed away. The House lost an elderly gentleman who was respected and revered, a man for whom a great majority of members had great affection. Into the Parliament came a much younger man who brought with him a robust integrity and a very deep conviction. As  chairman  of the exservicemen's committee of the Government parties I will not reiterate the fine expressions that have been made but I will point out to the House of Representatives this afternoon that in 1941, during a war that had commenced in September 1939, when casualty lists were long, when the great campaigns that were fought in the Middle East, in Greece and in Crete were finished, almost immediately after Frank Stewart turned 1 8 years of age he became a member of the fighting service, the Second Australian Imperial Force. It is a tribute that in 1979 might be regarded as rather late, but it is worthy of recognition that in 1941, when the full consciousness of war was upon the people living in this country, a man who was just barely qualified legally to wear the uniform of the Monarch did so. With great respect, I bring that to the attention of the House. As you have been told,  Mr Speaker,  Frank Stewart fought in battles in New Guinea under conditions and circumstances with which some in the House would be familiar, but they are a diminishing group. We have lost a friend and a man who represented, in terms of integrity and service, a dedication to duty and a devotion to principle, as he saw it, that I know will be respected by all who knew him. 
I want to mention in particular one point of which most honourable members would not be aware. In doing so, I speak on behalf of that great hospital in my constituency, the Mater Misericordiae Hospital, which is well known throughout Sydney. I put this tribute on the record for the benefit of  Mrs Stewart  and her family and for Frank Stewart's distinguished brother, who is the Minister for Health in the Government of New South Wales. The  Hon.  Frank Stewart, the honourable member for Grayndler, was of great help to that hospital. Few contributions of thanks and gratitude are rendered to a member of the House for deeds that are not made known publicly.  His  assistance to that hospital is one such deed. I place my thanks on record this afternoon. 
Frank Stewart and I served together on a number of committees, including the Joint Parliamentary Government Publications Committee, which has already been mentioned. We also snared adjoining offices.  Mr Speaker,  you divided for us a suite of offices that had belonged to a great and distinguished aviator who was a very senior member of this Parliament. My office was more on the utilitarian side and the honourable member for Grayndler, having regard to his distinction as a former Minister of state, enjoyed the more pristine side. That gave us the opportunity to enjoy a personal friendship which began in 1953. Having had many discussions with Frank, having been a political competitor, having been a man who respected him over a long period and having known of his education and training at St Mary's Cathedral College, as mentioned by the Prime Minister, I leave honourable members with this thought: When the time came for Frank to arrive at perhaps the most significant entry gate and he was invited to identify himself, in my judgment he would have said in the Latin which I know he learnt: ' Adsum semper fidelis'. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Defence, who yesterday in the House said that he would inquire into the matter of the Special Air Services Regiment being invited to attend a birthday function held for  Mr Lang  Hancock of Western Australia. Can the Minister inform the House whether there is any validity in the suggestions which were made yesterday by the shadow Minister for Defence? 
-It is a privilege to speak in support of the motion and remarks of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and other honourable members who have spoken. I was privileged to be a friend of  Sir Charles  Adermann during a period of six parliaments from the time when I was elected to this Parliament in 1949. 1 endorse all the comments that have been made, particularly those of my old and distinguished friend from Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is true that  Sir Charles  Adermann had a sense of humour. It was not the easiest sense of humour to detect, but I think that was deliberate. After all, he was a Queenslander and one of a group of the most robust members who have ever been elected to the House of Representatives. 
He was a close personal friend of  Sir Arthur  Fadden and of other Queensland members who played a significant part in this Parliament from 1949 to 1972. On occasions he often found it necessary to tone down the sense of humour of those robust colleagues to whom I have referred.  His  integrity, faith, sense of responsibility and friendship were all qualities that most of us recall. Reference has been made to the rural activity in which he was engaged. It is only reasonable to point out to the House that there are very few rural activities which have produced a distinguished Minister of State in the Australian Parliament and a  President  of the United States of America. 
Is the Minister for Productivity aware of a report in the  Canberra Times  reflecting on the airworthiness of the Nomad aircraft produced in Australia? Will he advise the House whether he has any information in relation to this matter? 
-The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill (No. 2) of 1979 will be supported by the Opposition so I hope that I can make these comments about this legislation in what might be described as a non-party political atmosphere. The Bill relates to television receiving sets, radio receiving sets and items of what is known as sound equipment such as record players and tape players. These provisions apply also to records and tape recordings, parts and accessories for sound equipment. The high rate of 27.5 per cent is now payable on television sets, radio sets, record players, tape recorders, tape players and the combinations of these items as defined in the second schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. The amount of 27.5 per cent is now payable on records, tape recordings of music or verbal entertainment material as well as component parts, accessories and other specified classes of goods which are used in association with television, radio and sound equipment. 
From time to time, manufacturers at home and overseas do try to outwit the Commissioner of Taxation who is charged with the unenviable task of collecting the taxes decided upon by the Parliament. From time to time, advances in science and technology lead to a smoke screen of semantics called 'new terminology'. This environment has led to doubts about the proper and valid application of the 27.5 per cent rate particularly to television, radio and sound appliances. This amending legislation will clarify the position and remove any doubts about the legal validity of the Commissioner's decision. 
The amount of 27.5 per cent will be payable on virtually every item of equipment used in the reception of TV or radio programs, the reproduction of sound or noise- as I think it might be fairly described from time to time- from records, tapes or wires or for any two or more of these functions. It is interesting to note that although clocks with radios built into them are included for the benefit of the amateur radio fraternity, radio transmitter/ receivers will be taxed at the rate of 15 per cent. Particular sections of the amending legislation deal with television, radio or sound equipment which has other uses or functions. 
The Minister gave as an example an article of furniture which has a section of it designed to hold glassware and which also includes built-in record and cassette player equipment. Such an article of furniture would be taxable at 27.5 per cent if the value of the record and cassette player components together made up more than half the value of the whole article of furniture. The 27.5 per cent sales tax on records, tape recordings, parts and accessories for television, radio and sound equipment will also apply to envelopes, stands, cabinets and other facilities for the storage of records and also to cassette racks, holders and other storage facilities for tape recordings. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report of 15 February 1978 deals with the music recording industry in Australia and contains the requests from interested parties about sales tax on recordings and music. On pages 43 and 44 the report stated: 
The Commission received a number of requests relating to sales tax on music recordings. The main requests were: exemption from sales tax for promotional copies of Australian records; exemption from, rebate of, or reduction in rate of sales tax for all Australian records; and that sound recordings be regarded as a cultural medium for the purposes of Annex C of the Agreement on the Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials  (the Florence Agreement)- 
Consequently it was requested of the Industries Assistance Commission that it should recommend an exemption from sales tax. The report continued: 
The Commissioner of Taxation - always very keen to keep an eye on the Consolidated Revenue- advised the Commission that under the provisions of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act goods that are given away for promotional purposes by a manufacturer or distributor are subject to tax on the grounds that they have been applied by the manufacturer or distributor to his own use, i.e., that he has used them for the purposes of his business by giving them away for promotional purposes. An exemption for promotional copies of recordings would be difficult to justify while tax remained payable on other  classes of promotional goods used or given away for business purposes in other areas of industry. The taxing of goods applied to their own use by the manufacturers and distributors of those products is also designed to preserve equity by placing them in the same position as retailers and others who must purchase any goods they require for business purposes and bear tax when purchasing them. 
The first two requests referred to . . . involve differential sales tax treatment between the Australian and imported product. The Commissioner of Taxation has advised . . . 
That advice was given to the Industries Assistance Commission- 
. that such differential treatment would be contrary to Australia's commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
In relation to the third request . . . 
This relates to the Florence agreement to which I have referred-   the Commissioner of Taxation has advised that Australia is not a party to the Florence Agreement. But even if it were, the agreement would not prevent the imposition of sales tax on recordings; it merely forbids the imposition of tax on the imported product in excess of that on the domestic product. 
Therefore in these circumstances the Industries Assistance Commission decided that there was little justification for recommending any change in the present sales tax provisions for music recordings. References have been made in this House to direct taxation and its significance in the economy, and also to the attitude of the various political parties from time to time in relation to the problem of differentiation between direct taxation and indirect taxation in its various forms. I believe that the whole of the sales tax process should be reviewed because its impact upon the national economy is important and significant. I am prone to believe that direct taxation is less harmful than indirect taxation in the context of the progress and development of the national economy. 
In spite of what honourable members on both sides of the House have said, I would like to quote from the basic statistics that are submitted to the Parliament by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in its economic survey which, as is well known, is carried out over a number of years. For example, I note that the report of July 1975 relating to the fiscal year 1973-74 referred to a gross domestic product of $50,433m and the current revenue was 28.9 per cent of the GDP. I think that this was when  Mr Crean  was the Treasurer. The OECD said that direct taxes at that stage represented 14.9 per cent of the 28.9 per cent. If one turns to the report of 1978 covering 1976-77, one finds an enormous increase in the GDP to $8 1 ,560m; current revenue as a public sector percentage of the 
GDP being 3 1.8 per cent and direct taxes having risen to 18 per cent. Last year, with a gross domestic product of $90,68 lm, the current revenue percentage was 31.3 per cent and direct taxes were 17.8 percent. 
I mentioned those figures because I suspect that from time to time the House is given an impression about the relationship between the total taxation take by governments in Australia and the gross domestic product which is prone to be a political interpretation. I feel that in those circumstances the House ought to be reminded that with a little study it can be shown that there has been not a great deal of variation over quite a long period, irrespective of the government in power. I complete my remarks by saying that in terms of the total sales tax concept I believe that the figures are unnecessarily high. I am aware of the fact that Consolidated Revenue must be collected from some source and that the Parliament instructs the Commissioner of Taxation to collect all of the Consolidated Revenue that he possibly can. Notwithstanding that, I think that indirect taxation generally has an adverse effect upon production in the community. In my judgment this effect would be worthy of exploration as one of our very great problems at the present time is the problem of producing employment for young people in the next decades of our national development. I conclude on that point. I will support the Bill and I am aware of the fact that my friends on the other side of the House will also support the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he can advise the House of the facts concerning a report to the effect that a Royal Australian Air Force F111 aircraft- the first of such aircraft recently modified in the United States for special reconnaissance work- was forced on its return to Australia to land at Kwajalein in the Pacific Ocean, allegedly because of a tropical storm. Can the Minister clear the clouds away from this report? 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the details of the most recent presidential address by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? Has the Minister been informed of the likely effect upon industry and employment within Australia of a campaign of wage increases such as that decided upon by the ACTU? 
-I have looked at the recommendations with a good deal of interest. I will make one or two comments that I would like the House to consider. I am of the view that although this proposed procedure may lead to a saving of time- we will be able to get through more work by operating under a different process- I am not at all sure that it will represent the same type of work that we have been able to achieve in the past. I am rather of the view that it may operate in circumstances such as exist at the moment in this House. I am not at all sure that it would be that effective in a House with a more equal distribution of the electorates between the left and right hand sides of it. 
Therefore, I feel that the process of the House going into a Committee of the Whole ought to be retained and then perhaps an Estimates committee could function in addition to the House itself while in session as the Committee of the Whole. 
I did not realise that the intention of the proposal was to keep the House in operation at the same time that these Estimates committees were functioning in addition to, and outside of it. I wonder whether a process of this description would be consistent with the constitutional assessment of the proper functions of the House of Representatives as such. It seems to me that after many years we have come to accept, for example, reports to the House from the AuditorGeneral, reports relating to the great civil service departments and reports from the Public Works Committee and the Public Accounts Committee. I do not believe that we can fairly claim that those reports are subsequently thoroughly debated by the House. I had hoped that some of the references for these extra committees would include matters of that description. 
It seems to me that over the years the House of Representatives has been in fact sitting for a diminishing number of hours. If one goes back to the 1950s and the 1960s when perhaps the House was made up of more robust people, one sees that it was the custom to sit into the early hours of the dawn; a custom that was, I might add, practised by those who sit on the other side of the House as well as on this side of it. Whilst in recent times we have achieved what is generally regarded as a more rational system- thanks to the Leader of the House in the last Government- the fact of the matter is that the Parliament's sitting time has diminished. I express the view that if both of these Estimates committees are to function while the House is carrying on with the discussion of other legislation, the House ought to be assured that this is in fact a proper conduct for it. I am a little concerned that this procedure might tend to divert public attention away from the work of this House. 
Quite obviously those Estimates committees are not likely, for example, to be broadcast. If I remember correctly, going back a few years, the original decision by the House to institute broadcasting was for the benefit of the general public of Australia. Some people might feel that the long suffering public have been hardened by that great misery that was inflicted upon them, but it was undoubtedly the view of the Prime Minister of the day that it was in the interest of the general public that the work of the Federal Parliament should be brought to their notice. I am a little concerned with the aspect that the Estimates committees are not likely to function in a manner that will attract attention to their work. It is clear from the motion of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that they shall not vary the amount of a proposed expenditure. It seems to me that the process of moving that the Budget allocations be reduced by one shilling, or 10c, which is the customary process under the Westminster system, cannot be followed by these committees and would be exclusive to the subsequent operations of the House. I would be grateful to the Minister, when he replies to these matters, if he could make some comment upon what I have said. 
I cannot resist the immaculate charm and intellectual superiority which exudes from the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  Having on past occasions listened to him on the radio and watched him on television, I am aware of the acquisitions that are the result of his great capacity and I want to congratulate him. I want to say that 1 am absolutely intent upon giving him the cases to which he referred. I know that the honourable gentleman is gifted. I know that he can read and I know that he will study the cases, for example, of those people who in the early days of the Labor Government of  Mr Curtin  attracted the attention of the right honourable member for Barton who was the honourable  Dr H.  V. Evatt. I know he will know of the gentleman known as the 'Publicist' and the man named P. R. Stephensen. I would have thought that the honourable member for Lalor would have needed to be on this side of the House in the context of this debate had he needed to deal with the activities of the government of the day and the way in which it did deal with those people. He may like to know that they were given no opportunity of explaining their activities. Assumptions were made in relation to their guilt. I understand that they were cast into durance vile for a particular time with all of the contumely that could be heaped upon them by those gracious members of the Australian Labor Party. 
-I do thank the honourable member for his comment. Furthermore, I would like to say that in the years before I came to this place, in 1 946-49, after most of us had returned from a distressing experience that lasted from 1939 to 1945, there were periods when the 
Government of this country led by the right honourable member for Macquarie, the late  Mr J.  B. Chifley, had judgments that there were people in this country seeking, as they said in the Parliament- it can be read in  Hansard-  to ultimately confuse the people and to destroy the economy. I say to the honourable member for Lalor that he should go into the Parliamentary Library and look at the editions of the  Sydney Morning Herald  for that period. By the heavenly mass, I assure him that if he does he will find a full page edition of an advertisement which says that communism is an attempt ultimately to destroy the Australian economy, and that it is a connivance, a conspiracy and a horrible, monstrous attempt to destroy Australia. At the bottom of that page he will find the names Joseph Benedict Chifley and Herbert Vere Evatt. 
If the honourable gentleman is so junior and so lacking in what might be described as those maturities which one hopes will eventually emerge, besides his hirsute qualities, he would not know these facts. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  knows about them because he was a distinguished member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales. If I may say with very great respect, the Premiers of that State at that time- not men of my own political persuasion; men like  Mr McGirr  and  Mr Cahill-  had very definite views. I am led to believe, if I may say so, that it was only because of a co-ordination of the views of  Mr Cahill  when he was the Premier of NSW and certain distinguished gentlemen with greater appreciation in higher places than this place that certain events that occurred in Victoria did not occur in New South Wales. If I use three letters, the distinguished honourable member for Lalor may understand what I mean. I refer to the letters D, L and P. 
In those circumstances I am quite sure that it would be realised that the use of the word ultimately ' is important. The fact of the matter is this: If one does not look at organisations and envisage them as being in due course led into a situation in which they can create problems then one does less than justice to the duties of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If there were people in 1937 and 1938 who could have envisaged the fact that Philby was to become an active member of a government that was totally against the welfare of the government of the United Kingdom, is it the judgment of members of the Opposition that that ought not have been stated in some paper about him? Is it their view that if people such as Burgess and McLean exist in the Australian civil service they should be protected? Do they not understand anything at all about ASIO? Do they not understand that the welfare of their nation is protected directly in ratio to the significance of the national security organisation? Have they no historical knowledge of their own political party? I suggest that they go back to 1942 and read what their party and its leaders said when Yamashita captured Singapore. I have the honour to tell them that what they read will not make them proud men. 
-Very quickly and very briefly I would like to say this: I came to this place in 1 949-50 into the Nineteenth Parliament. This is now the Thirty-first Parliament. If I learnt anything in those years, listening to the elders who were in this place, I learnt something that perhaps in my own mind made me a little more mature and a bit more aware than I was in previous years. Every comment that the distinguished and honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  has made, with all the years of experience he has had in the Parliament of Victoria, seem to indicate that he has learnt absolutely nothing from history. Is it a fact that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  a distinguished historian, has learnt absolutely nothing? Does he not understand that the people who started during the Weimar Republic in the previous decades, were seen marching in the streets? Has he never heard of Captain Ernst Roehm? Has he never heard of the SA- the Sturmabteilung? Has he heard nothing at all of the brownshirts? Has he heard nothing at all of what was called the National Socialist German Workers Party? Why was it given a name of that description if it were not, as a national socialist German workers party, to make in the ultimate sense an appeal to those people less sophisticated than the great majority of electors in that country? The fact of the matter is this: The story can be seen throughout the whole history of Europe. I ask the honourable member for Lalor to stand in this place and tell us of Prince Ruediger von Starhemberg in Vienna, to tell us about Dollfuss and the way he was murdered, to tell us about the ultimate event that took place in Prague, to tell us about  Dr Edward  Benes, Jan Masaryk, and all of those people who were part and parcel of the picture of 50 years of subversion. 
The word 'ultimately' has a long term connotation and deals with judgment. If there were people who could have made a judgment in 1930, 1932, 1934, 1936 and 1937, does the honourable gentleman understand that millions of people who are now dead might be alive today? Does he understand that there might have been some negotiations, some co-ordinated cohesion of human beings, that would have perhaps avoided the horrific World War II? Do these events mean nothing to the intellectual giant who comes amongst us and tells us that we should argue only in the contemporary context?  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have heard some nonsense in my life, but by the heavens I have heard no such nonsense as that which I have heard in recent times. 
Had the former leader of the Labor Party in the Victorian Parliament become the Premier of that State, in my judgment based on some of the speeches that he has made in the past, he would have made it clear to the honourable member that he would not have tolerated masses of people, activated by emotions, reasons and influences of which he would not have approved, charging up and down Collins Street and creating great misery for the people in the great city of Melbourne. When people go from Victoria and New South Wales to Queensland and pay money to fly interstate, at levels of which the Labor Party is always complaining- and go there, I might add, at the taxpayers' expense- to appear as though they are in some Gilbert and Sullivan fantasy, to march up and down the streets of Queensland to irritate a Scandinavian who is now the Premier of that State, it seems to me to be nothing less than bizarre. 
I repeat that if we want to know what members of the Labor Party truly think and what are their emotions about subversion, we have to go back beyond the rump that sits in this Parliament. In my mind there is a clear understanding that the Ministry in 1948 and 1949 knew what subversion was. Do honourable members opposite know what their greatest 
Prime Minister did? He put the soldiers into the coal mines. Honourable members opposite would have stood like a pack of people immune from a concentrated judgment. They would have stood, as in the present context, to moan, groan and complain about direction from the Prime Minister. That is the sort of thing that members of the Labor Party do when they are in government. But when they are in opposition- I must admit that this is what most oppositions do- they cry with the savoir-faire and charm that are normally detectable in Montmartre and San Antoine. 
-This afternoon we heard one of the most remarkable speeches that has been delivered in this House for quite a long time from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  We heard some comments from him about his own economic policies and beliefs and about what he describes as the future activities of a future Australian Labor Party Government.  His  statement in relation to the deficit is quite the most remarkable statement that has been made in this place for a long time. He is encouraging Australians to believe that they can spend money that they do not have; that they can create additional credit that they do not have; and that there will be- as he said- some degree of flexibility in keeping inflation under control. 
The reality is that when the Labor Party came into power in 1973, its first Budget was accompanied by this kind of expression: Now is the time for us to transfer assets from the private sector to the public sector. Then there was the statement: There is no reason why the civil service should not be pacesetters in almost every manner, so that in terms of salaries and benefits, private enterprise will be encouraged to follow the civil service. The end result of this was enormous inflation and the highest taxation rates that we had ever seen. They were introduced by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  when he was the Treasurer in 1975. As I said, when in government the Australian Labor Party set out to transfer assets from the private sector to the public sector. On a previous occasion Labor even set out to nationalise banking. To the best of my knowledge, in spite of what the honourable member for Adelaide said this afternoon, he is still pledged to what he has described as socialisation of the means of production, industry, distribution and exchange. In those circumstances one ought to beware of the new look references which he stated here because they are inconsistent with the policies and the platform of the party to which he belongs. 
The honourable member for Adelaide admitted that there was a high inflation level in 1 974. This Government, with prudent economic policies, has reduced that level from its great peak of 17.6 per cent to about 8 per cent. That is a very significant achievement. Private sector interests rates are lower than when the ALP was in power. The unemployment position has really stabilised and seasonally adjusted civilian employment has been increasing month by month. There has been a dramatic recovery in the rural economy. This has reinforced the growth of confidence throughout the private sector. Farm incomes are estimated to have doubled during the year. Production has risen in most industry groups. Retail sales overall are up and dwelling commencements have increased. 
Yet the honourable member for Adelaide was saying that people are saving their money and not spending it. The fact of the matter is that record levels will be with us again at Christmas time in 1 979. 1 feel that in most parts of our great cities this will be apparent to all. Private investment spending has continued to grow strongly. The Government deserves to be complimented for its exchange rate management and its effective anti-inflation policies which have continued to help our producers to export. They are now competing successfully on world markets. The balance of payments has improved because of strong growth in the value of exports and increased capital inflow to Australia from overseas. 
If there is one significant yardstick by which one may judge the confidence of overseas investors it is to be seen in those figures. If people are prepared to invest in this country, to hope to build industry and manufacturing capacity, they will provide employment for Australian workers. They hope to get a return on their investment. This is the significant yardstick to which I have referred by which the conduct of the Government and the success of its policies may be properly judged. When the Labor Party was in Government in 1974 and 1975 there was an outflow of investment from Australia and what has been described as the exporting of businesses. Many Australian businessmen went to Manila, Hong Kong, Singapore and Bangkok and proceeded, with lower costs, to put their creative ideas into action in those places and to export production back to Australia. The end result was that jobs having been exported we had increased unemployment in this country. 
We on the Government side are accused by the Labor Party of being people who are heartless, people who have an inadequate policy related to those in need. We are constantly being criticised on our social security and welfare policies. Yet within the context of overall economic responsibility the Commonwealth Government has continued to give high priority to income security and social welfare needs. Total spending on social security and welfare will increase by 9.6 per cent to $8,900m in 1979-80. This represents 28 per cent of total Budget outlays. Those figures must be seen in the context of what the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide, was saying. Most pensions and benefits will now be indexed on a six-monthly basis in line with consumer price index movements. There is no doubt that in November of this year- in a few weeks time- and in May and November thereafter in each year there will be increases in age, invalid and widows' pensions, supporting parents' benefit, deserted wives' pensions, sheltered employment allowances, unemployment benefit for all aged 18 or over without dependants- and married people in the rare circumstances where they are younger than 18 years- and sickness benefit for all people aged 1 8 years and over and married people younger than 18 years. 
The Government has maintained its commitment to provide income test free pensions of $5 1.45 a week for single people, and $85 a week for a married couple, aged 70 years or over. Increases above these levels are subject to the income test. The total expenditure on age pensions is estimated to rise to $3, 530m, almost 40 per cent of the total welfare budget. In these circumstances it seems to me that the Government must be complimented. Most of us believed that economic circumstances were such that it would not be possible for the Government to go ahead with the development of these social welfare policies. 
Looking to the future growth of the economy one must turn to energy policy, mining, exploration for minerals and our hopes for the future production of oil in this country. We are all aware of the fact that when the ALP was in 
Government from 1972 to 1975 the whole infrastructure of the oil exploration industry was virtually destroyed. The Labor Government followed policies which drove the technical people away from Australia. It denied investment in oil exploration. It set out to establish a frame of mind in the Australian community that would make people believe that the Government was going to nationalise the whole operation if it possibly could. 
The latest survey of industry and commerce shows that $7,500m will be invested in projects around Australia within the next 12 months. They are ready to go now or are in their final feasibility stages. At December last the estimated capital cost of mineral projects already on the board, excluding the Western Australia North West Shelf project, was $4,000m. It is estimated that between 83 and 143 exploration wells could be drilled this year. Even the lower estimate of 83 wells would be the best result since 1972. The Government's crude oil pricing policy and taxation and investment incentives have given a new impetus to the oil exploration industry. As a result, Australia's oil reserves have been upgraded by more than 600 million barrelsabout three years' additional supply at current consumption rates. New capital investment in mining was 75 per cent higher last year. The larger mining companies expect to increase their investment by a further 32 per cent this year. 
A package of six uranium Bills, covering uranium development, Aboriginal land rights, nuclear codes, national parks and environmental protection measures, has been passed through the Parliament by this Government. The Commonwealth and the Northern Lands Council have reached agreement on terms and conditions for mining the Ranger uranium deposits in accordance with the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. What has been happening in the Labor Party recently in relation to these matters is very significant indeed. We are aware of the fact that the former  president  of the Australian Labor Party, who is hoping to become a member of this House, tried to convince the Australian Council of Trade Unions that it ought to support the Government in its policies for the production of uranium; but he failed. He failed because there are people who are seeking, for reasons quite divorced from problems of safety, to prevent Australian uranium from being mined. One can only conclude that that is in the interests of people other than those who live in this country. 
In my judgment, the people of Australia can be very thankful that over the last three years they have had a government that has been determined to attack the problem of inflation. It is quite clear to me that the honourable member for Adelaide, who preceded me in this debate, is simply going to ignore all the advice which came from the Labor Government in London and all of the advice that came from his own senior people several years ago when the then Prime Minister, the former member for Werriwa, and the former member for Melbourne Ports were making comments such as: 'Every time there is an increase in pay it is another man 's job '. 
These statements were made. The honourable member can see them in  Hansard.  Mr Frank  Crean made these statements and they are recorded in  Hansard. 
The context is the context of reality. The honourable gentleman says that I am quoting out of context. I really do think that he should study what happened in London and read what  Mr Healey  said when he stated that it was not possible to inflate an economy back into full employment. The British Labor Government went right through the process, as the Labor Government here did between 1972 and 1975, continually spending and creating credit which did not exist. This resulted in very difficult economic problems for Australia and it has been almost impossible for this Government to cope without some form of restriction. This has to be the case. In the 1930s we had depression. Before the war we had circumstances that were unknown in our national history. To my mind, to talk about the current circumstances as being comparable to those of those years is absolutely absurd. 
I am going to support the Budget and the Government because I believe that the Budget has in fact sustained the living standards of Australians. In my judgment, it will improve the living standards of Australians as time goes by. I suspect that when the next election takes place the Government will make it clear to those in Opposition that they had better look around their benches and get used to them because after that election they will be on that side of the Parliament again. 
I address my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Having regard to the conditions existing in East Timor and the assistance rendered by the East Timorese to our Army during the tragic early days of World 
War II, can the Minister inform the House of Government actions to stimulate financial and physical assistance for the people of East Timor in their present tragic circumstances beyond the additional $A2m which has already been announced by him? Has he been able to arrange for effective distribution of aid in East Timor? 
I wish to deal with the political aspects of the comments made by my friend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in relation to this matter. It is utterly wrong for him to say that the Government was responsible for expectations being encouraged among Defence Forces Retirement Benefits pensioners, that is to say, those people who served in the professional forces of Australia during the period from 1948 to 1972. 1 have had a great deal to do with this, and I have said regularly to everybody that in the current economic circumstances I believe that there is no likelihood that the Commonwealth Government will make any move to salvage the position, having regard to inflation, other than what has already been done. It has been responsible for a substantial increase in government commitment between 1972 and 1977. As the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  said, it represents about 100 per cent in terms of cost. 
The other reference made by the honourable member for Corio should be explained in this manner. Before 1948 there was no such thing as a Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. The government of the late J. B. Chifley brought in a scheme at that time, but made no attempt to make it retrospective. It affected members of this Parliament such as the late honourable member for Indi, Air Marshal Bostock, for example, who retired from the Royal Australian Air Force in 1946. No attempt was made by the government of  Mr Chifley  to do anything about  Mr Bostock  's situation, and one could multiply that example throughout the three Services by many times. It will be appreciated that it has been a longestablished matter of fact that the retrospectivity program was never adopted for the regular forces. 
In 1948 those people who were in the interim forces before the regular forces were finally established were entitled, when they came into the regular forces, to become contributors to the scheme known as the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. It was the first time in Australian history that such a scheme had existed, and all sorts of complications and problems were associated with it. Members of the Labor Party, in particular my late friend the honourable member for Lang,  Mr Stewart,  and the former honourable member for Bass,  Mr Barnard,  who was the Minister for Defence in 1973, would have been familiar with these facts. During the period from 1950 to 1959 all sorts of problems were put up to Ministers for Defence, at that time largely  Sir Philip  McBride and later on  Sir Allen  Fairhall. The pressure grew and grew and, as the Minister said, it is true that in 1959 variations were made and the system of commitment in payment was altered. Between 1959 and 1972 the same problems again emerged, and they were well known to the then Minister for Defence, who retired in 1969, and to the Treasurer of the day. 
It was only after some years- 1968, 1969, 1970, when the Gorton Government came into power- that an agreement was made to establish a committee. It is perfectly true that it had to be a joint committee and that the people to whom I have referred and many others were members of it. It was a joint committee. It sat and worked for several years and in 1972 concluded that what had existed between 1948 and 1972 ought to be substantially altered. In other words, the Committee was saying in 1972: 'What we have had for the last 20 years has in our judgment, not been good enough'. The members of that Committee who were then in Opposition said- I was here and I heard them: 'When we get into government, we will adopt the Jess Committee's report'. By that time there had been a change in government and the McMahon Government was considering rejecting the Jess Committee's report. I remind my honourable friend the Minister for Defence, who at that time had ceased to be the Minister for the Navy, that certain stresses were resultant of the circumstances at that time. The fact of the matter is that people were talking about crossing the floor. If I may say so with great respect, some distinguished members of the other place who were then members of this place will have no difficulty in recalling the circumstances to which I refer. There are sometimes advantages politically and sometimes disadvantages politically in having a long memory and a long experience. 
When the Government changed in 1972 and  Mr Barnard,  the then honourable member for Bass, became Minister for Defence, consideration was given to this matter and the Labor Party changed its view. When Labor got into a position in which it had to face up to responsible decisions involving the recognition that something in the past had not been good enough and action should be taken to compensate those people who had suffered during that period, it come to the conclusion that it was more than apparent that the McMahon Government was about to reach just before that December election of 1972. In fact, I am firmly of the judgment that if that election had not been due until the end of the year 1973 the Jess Committee report would not have been accepted by the Government. There probably would never have been a DFRB at all if there had not been a change of government. That is what I believe to be the truth. 
The fact remains that the people who retired before 1972 have suffered as a result of inflation. Consideration has been given by government to contributory schemes which have allowed these people- I do not want to go into great detail because it might be a little embarrassing- to be compensated for inflation and past suffering because of rising standards in the community. That decision was faced up to by the Honourable F. M. Daly and the Honourable E. G. Whitlam in 1973. Anyone with even minimal experience in this place will know exactly to what I refer. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that he is prepared to engage in discussions between the returned soldiers and the Regular Defence Forces Welfare Association on aspects of these matters as the Government's decision is studied. I remind the Minister that there is very little in the way of detail available to honourable members. As he has announced the decision in this House today, I appeal to him to put before the Parliament detailed facts which established the reasons for the increase in the DFRB commitment between 1972 and 1979. Surely it is not too much to ask that these details be set forward. The information would be of interest to the honourable member for Corio and it might ease his conscience in some degree. 
I make no criticism about the Bonnett report recommendation in relation to taxing invalid pensions. We have some son of an association with the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Canada. Many of our servicemen recognise the flags of those countries when they see them. We are told that in those countries the professional services are in a position different from that which has been accepted by the Government in Australia and which is applauded and accepted by the honourable member for Corio. I suggest that he should get in touch with some of the distinguished people who have recently gone out of government in the United Kingdom and see whether he can get the facts from them. 
For my own part, I understand what the Government has said and what the Minister has said on behalf of the Government in this place this afternoon. I have never expected that the Minister or the Government would say anything else. I certainly have never given any of the exservicemen reasons for expectation other than to say that we will continue to press the Government. I have given my own advice to the Minister. I know he understands it perfectly because he has been a member of this place for a long, long time. On many occasions I have heard him say things similar to things said by others in the past. I am not upbraiding him but if I mention the mining of Haiphong harbour I am sure that the present Minister for Defence will rise to his feet and bow to the House. I simply say that we shall proceed to examine these matters further. We hope that consideration can be given next year to increases in addition to the consumer price increases which have been given. However, I acknowledge that these increases have provided quite substantial benefits for many classes of DFRB recipients who retired before 1972. I thank the House for giving me leave to speak to this statement. I hope it will be understood that the reality is that when the Jess Committee made its report to this House it very nearly resulted in a situation that would have been a great embarrassment to everybody. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
