
 - Mr Speaker, I take this opportunity to join with others in congratulating you on your elevation to the Speakership. I know by repute that you will do a good job. I trust that you will also enjoy it. I also congratulate the  Chairman  of Committees and hope that he too enjoys his job. I would like to thank the constituents of Forrest for having elected me as their representative in this Twenty-eighth Parliament. I am greatly honoured and, in gladly assuming the responsibility, I would like to say that the welfare of every person within the electorate shall at all times be my total concern and care. I pray that I shall meet the expectations that they have of me, both within the electorate and in the wider sphere of the Parliament. 
The electorate of Forrest is some 16,000 square miles in area and is the southwest corner of Australia. Its basic strength lies in the rural industries. The rainfall varies from 17 inches a year in the eastern sector to 50 inches on the west coast. Because of the variance of rainfall and soil types nearly every primary product - from wheat and coarse grains, merino wool production, right through to intensive market gardening - is grown. In between those ends every type of primary production is engaged in, excepting the agricultural pursuits carried out under sub-tropical and tropical conditions. We have vast hardwood forests, substantial plantings of softwood, open cut and deep coal mining at Collie, mining of tin and tantalite at Greenbushes, mineral sands mining on the west coast and the processing of a quantity of these. In Forrest we have all the infrastructure of a rural community, dozens of small to medium size towns, with Albany and Bunbury being the ports and main regional centres of the electorate. 
On the agricultural scene Forrest is one of the great providers. Besides being the major supplier to Perth of dairy products, beef, mutton and lamb, fruit and vegetables, it is an area which exports much of its wealth to other nations. In years past we have made vast contributions, as has rural Australia, to the wealth of Australia. We have created wealth, which has allowed our secondary industries to grow and our people generally to prosper. The dramatic change which the rural industries have experienced in the last 12 months has been wonderful to see. With wool being so buoyant a degree of prosperity has returned to rural Australia. Grain and meat are in short supply around the world and so those industries are in a sound position, subject only to seasonal conditions and Government decisions. 
Looking at the wool industry it is very difficult to understand just how desperate the situation was 18 months ago. How wrong the economic experts were, especially those who suggested that the wool industry was finished and the best thing we could do with our sheep was to push them over the nearest cliff. I pay special tribute to our previous Government and the Australian Wool Commission for acting as they did. It took a tremendous amount of courage and fortitude to continue to buy in vast quantities of wool with so much public resistance being built up saying that this was the wrong thing to do. When the world realised that the Australian Wool Commission meant business, that it could not be broken, and when the world realised that in its endeavour to break the Australian Wool Commission it was running perilously short of wool, we saw a return to more realistic prices. I sincerely hope that the new authority, the Australian Wool Corporation, will have the backing of the present Government and will continue to put that floor in the auction room. 
The wool industry is entering an exciting period, especially on the marketing side. The innovations of core testing, micro measuring and sale by sample have been talked about and experimented with for some years, and we will see large quantities of our wool, hand led in this manner, being delivered from the wool shed straight to the mill. Recommendations from the Australian Wool Corporation due in April will be eagerly awaited especially by the wool industry and we may see vast changes in all sections of marketing and transport over the next few years. While most of rural Australia is in a sound position, I would not want this House to overlook the fact that the rural debt is estimated at $2,089m and local government debt is estimated at $1,6 18m. I do not claim to be an economist, but in revaluing the currency, especially in the first currency move in December, the present Government has aggravated the position, as was ably pointed out today by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards).  I suggest that there were other ways of handling this situation, bearing in mind the rural industries and local governments, such as by an accelerated review of our tariff structure. 
Leaving revaluation for a moment, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the concern of my electorate and myself for the timber industry and particularly for timbered sleepers. In Forrest we have vast hardwood forests of jarrah and karri. In recent months, since it took office, the present Government has reversed the decision of the previous Government to use timbered sleepers on the Commonwealth railway lines. The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has stated that tenders will be called and contracts allocated on an economic basis only. I have no real quarrel with that decision, but I do not know how one assesses the economic worth of basically unknown concrete sleepers over a period of SO years. I consider that the report by the Bureau of Transport Economics on economic evaluation of timber and concrete sleepers for 3 railway lines, released in October 1972, is full of 'guestimations'. Of course it has to be. Dealing with a new product under conditions different from those of other countries, in question is not only concrete's performance but also jarrah's The treatment of timbered sleepers is still in the experimental stage, and while this report has predicted a 30-year life for timbered sleepers I know that the timber industry would claim a far longer life for timber with new treatment methods. I believe that there are strong grounds on which to challenge this report, and I seek an independent evaluation of the merits of both materials. 
There are, of course, other areas of concern. Sleeper production represents more than 20 per cent of Western Australia's hardwood industry. It is worth $4.5m a year, including a contribution of $1.2m to the State Government's revenue through freight charges and timber royalty. The industry would also be hard put to maintain its sleeper exports if their country of origin spurned timber sleepers. Even if concrete had a major economic advantage over jarrah, which the Federal Bureau has failed to demonstrate, it should not be just a matter of measured costs. The jobs of 300 south west timber workers, the future of their families and those who serve them, the future of 30 small sawmills and the well-being of an important decentralised industry must be considered. 
Finally on this subject I must mention the ecology aspect. Coir timber comes from regenerating forests. Concrete and the quarrying of sand and gravel leave ugly scars in our countryside. Also no allowance has been made in the report for the disposal of the old sleepers, the Cost of disposal or the possible resale value. Timber sleepers usually find a ready resale to be used for stockyards and the like. At the very worst they can be burnt and so disposed of. It is doubtful that there can be any use  for  a second-hand concrete sleeper, and I believe that some of the European tracks are littered with them. 
I turn to another industry which is common to many other electorates, the export fruit industry, which is battling against rising costs, rising freights and now revaluation. The industry was operating on a slender profit margin before revaluation, and I doubt that the Government compensation will get to the right people or will be the right amount. For industries such as this it is as though somebody has changed the rules half way through the game without letting anyone know. As in all rural industries, efficiency has improved dramatically over the last 15 years, but still this industry remains only just profitable. But now, dealt this blow of revaluation, ail of a sudden the industry, through no fault of its own, is unprofitable, and I speak in the broad context for all industries that have been affected by revaluation. The story must be, and is, the same for our mining concerns, manufacturing and many other industries. I trust that the Government will give full consideration to those industries that are affected and in fact in peril because of revaluation. 
My deepest concern about these industries would be for the work force that services them and the jobs of the ordinary people, because surely this is the wealth of the country, this is what pays our way. The vast reserves of overseas currency held by us are not something that will always be there. As mentioned last week, we have just reached a point where our imports and exports balance. We have seen a massive outflow of money from this country during the last few weeks - some estimated $5000m. It could be that in a very short space of time our balance of payaments will be of concern to this Government. I am not one to encourage the lazy, inefficient operator, whether he be a farmer, miner, manufacturer, officer of a Government department or another Government employee; but the rules of the game have changed. Rising costs are catching up with the efficient operator, and he has nowhere to go. Although this Government is pledged to contain inflation, its actions in endeavouring to introduce 4 weks annual leave, its support for the 35- hour week and its disinterest in industrial lawlessness must lead to an acceleration of inflation. 
In conclusion, I urge the Government to watch over our export industries to see that they do not wither and die. The only predictable thing that I know is that nothing is predictable. So, in the near future, we may need all our export industries to continue to provide the wealth of the nation and to maintain our good standard of living which was created by the previous Government's endeavours. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.35)- I join the other speakers who have spoken in the Address-in-Reply debate and who have congratulated you,  Mr Speaker,  on your appointment as  Speaker  of the House. I am sure that your appointment will have a great effect on the efficient functioning of the House and will have far reaching effects on many Australian citizens. I also add my congratulations to the  Chairman  of Committees on his appointment. I feel that we should not pause at this point without congratulating our new Ministers upon the very efficient and progressive manner in which they have set about implementing the wishes of the people. The efficiency of the new Government has left the Opposition somewhat bewildered. After 23 years of adopting an attitude of wait and see, all we now hear about are splits in the Australian Labor 
Party, centralism, Mao Tse-tung and the like. (Quorum formed) As I was saying, the efficiency of the present Ministers has left the Opposition somewhat bewildered. All we hear about now are splits in the Labor Party, centralism, Mao Tse-tung and actions such as that which we have just witnessed. In spite of these actions the new Ministry will continue to introduce progressive legislation. I believe that these actions are consistent with  His  Excellency's remarks in his opening address to the Twenty-eighth Parliament. 
As we are now reaching the end of the Address-in-Reply debate, I think there might be some value in referring to the Governor-General's remarks.  His Excellency  referred to the clear decision of the people at the Federal election on 2nd December. He said that his advisers will ask this Parliament - itself the fundamental means by which the will of the people can be expressed - to pass legislation by which the people's instructions can be implemented. It seemed to me that  His Excellency,  the Governor-General, was reminding the Parliament that if we claim we are a democracy we must have the characteristics of a democracy and act as a democracy. The first characteristic of a democracy is that the government is controlled by the greater number of people represented in the Parliament. As the Governor-General mentioned, the clear decision of the people on 2nd December should leave no doubt in the minds of honourable members as to whom the Government represents. 
The Bills that have been presented by the Government to this Parliament indicate that the Government has the clear intention of carrying out the instructions and wishes of the people. One has only to read the back page of the daily Hansard report to be acquainted with the great change that has come over this Parliament since the new Government took office. One sees listed there the Sales Tax Bills, the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1973, the Australian Capital Territory Representation Bill 1973, the Northern Territory Administration Bill 1973, the Social Services Bill 1973, the Repatriation Bill 1973, the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Bill 1973, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Bill 1973, the Interim Forces Benefits Bill 1973, the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill 1973 and so on. All those Bills were introduced on one day by this Government. When before have we seen that happen? All we have heard tonight from members of the Opposition has been what a wonderful job the previous coalition Government did during its 23 years in office. Yet the next Opposition  speaker  tells us how poor the States are and what a bad state local government is in. It seems to me that honourable members opposite are only emphasising the poor performance of the previous Government over 23 years. Of course, in a democracy they have a right to do this. They have a right to present minority opinions and to put a case for minorities. 
I wish to put forward some information and the opinions of a minority in my electorate. I speak of the graziers and other people in the Western Division of New South Wales and their concern for a proper regulation of the kangaroo population. I point out that I am against any form of wildlife slaughter. If it can be proved that the banning of the export of kangaroo skins and products is necessary to prevent the extinction of various species of kangaroos, no further consideration should be given to the matter. But before we make a final decision on this matter we must remember that a large proportion of the kangaroo population in the Western Division of New South Wales is in the Darling electorate and I have been informed by many of the early settlers in the district that there are more kangaroos in the district now than there were when the settlers first arrived in this area. Surveys carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Wildlife Division, the universities and the National Parks and Wildlife Service of New South Wales indicate that the kangaroo has multiplied many times since the early explorers went west. This has been brought about by scrub clearing and the increase in the number of sheep in this district. It must be remembered that, unlike the kangaroo, the sheep will eat saltbush, which is slow to regenerate. 
Debate interrupted. 
Did the Prime Minister receive a request from the Labor Premier of Western Australia 3 weeks ago for the Australian dollar to be devalued because of the tremendous impact on the Western Australian economy of devaluation of the United States dollar, followed' by the Australian Government's  revaluataion?  Did the Prime Minister see a report of a statement by the Western Australian Premier last Saturday that he has been unable even to get a reply to his request? Finally, do his Government's policies in favour of the big cities mean that the welfare of the small States which export much more than they import is to be sacrificed in favour of the most populous States? 
I would like to enlarge on some remarks I made last Tuesday night regarding railway sleepers. I am deeply concerned for this industry and so bring this matter to the notice of the House once again. The Australian timber sleeper industry is important to the livelihood and wellbeing of the whole community. It is a decentralised, labour intensive industry providing employment directly and indirectly for more than 1,500 Australians. Representations made on behalf of concrete interests in South Australia for the development of a new industry are understandable, but immediately at stake are some 300 jobs in the south west of Western Australia. The employment situation in Western Australia has been lagging behind the rest of the Commonwealth over the last couple of years. South Australia has an almost over-full employment situation. Loss of the market for Commonwealth Railway sleepers will cause great hardship and loss to many country workers in Western Australia who will have little option but to gravitate to the city in search of alternative employment for which they will have to be retrained. 
The loss of this market will also cause long term hardship to the business community in the south west of the State and to a large number of persons residing in the Forrest electorate who rely on sawmill employment as a means of financially assisting their farming activities. It is understood that an analysis of figures quoted in the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics suggests that concrete sleeper manufacture would be necessary at Kalgoorlie for the major part of the transAustralia track requirements. This possibility plus the claimed reduction in maintenance personnel required would, I suggest, have an adverse effect on employment in the Port Pirie and Port Augusta areas. With exports overseas of railway construction timbers currently earning in excess of $3m per annum, it will be obvious that this important contribution to the country's export trade will be jeopardised by an Australian Government decision to use concrete in preference to timber in the nation's own principal railway system. It is very significant that a number of overseas countries purchased timber sleepers at prices in excess of locally manufactured concrete sleepers. As far as can be ascertained, all overseas countries utilise local hardwood resources for sleepers to the limit of availability. In this regard an in depth study by the United Nations Economic and Social Council has revealed that in 1972 there were 707.5 million sleepers in use in Europe - 75.7 per cent of wood, 15.4 per cent of concrete and 8.9 per cent of steel. If information from Russia, Bulgaria and Roumania were incorporated, the proportion of timber sleepers would rise to 82 per cent of the European total. In this connection it is pertinent to bring to mind that over 20 per cent of the total of Western Australian hardwood production is in railway sleepers. 
In today's technological environment I believe there is no need for government sponsorship of new cement based products. These have already displaced timber in many uses, such as major buildings and bridges, where the economics of their use are clearly and demonstrably viable. It is therefore not in the national interest to allow timber to be displaced in an area where even using the most negative assumptions the economic justification for other material is purely marginal. I understand that the Commonwealth Railways in its cost-benefit analysis of the Port Augusta to Whyallaline 'guestimated' that the saving would be approximately 10 per cent taken over a 50-year period. 
With the increased public interest in environmental considerations, it is pertinent to note that timber sleepers are produced from a naturally replenished source of organic material. The Western Australian forests are managed to provide a perpetual yield of raw material to industry while at the same time maintaining forest areas for water catchment, recreational pursuits and tourism. At the end of its useful life the timber sleeper faces ready sale for the construction of stockyards and the like. At the very worst they will rot away or be burnt. 
By contrast, the concrete sleeper is produced from once only limestone and stone quarries which are usually responsible for undesirable scars on our natural features and environment. Further production is carried out in cement making and stone crushing by techniques which give rise to dust pollution. At the end of its useful life as a railway component, considerable problems of disposal will exist. That factor was not considered in the Bureau of Transport Economics report. The report stated: 
No allowance was made in the evaluation for the disposal of old sleepers as the cost of disposal, or the possible resale value, is largely a matter of unpredictable local circumstances. 
That may have reduced considerably the 10 per cent which was estimated earlier in the report. I understand that there are sound technical reasons for the continued use of timber, which are evidenced by the fact that the 4 iron ore consortia which are operating in the north of Western Australia, after evaluating timber and concrete, opted for the timber sleeper in their recently constructed tracks. This year they will carry 75 million tons gross compared with an estimated 5 million tons by Commonwealth Railways and 72 million tons by all other railways throughout Australia. Although solid arguments can be put forward to support the continued use of timber for sleepers, one wonders whether the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner has not decided already to use concrete sleepers. In his annual report 1971-72 the Commissioner stated: 
From the point of view of long-term planning and future maintenance cost reduction, one of the most satisfactory aspects of the year just concluded was the progress achieved in the laying for the first time in Australia of a rail link on concrete sleepers, viz the Port Augusta-Whyalla Railway. 
By continuing to specify timber sleepers for Commonwealth Railways maintenance work and new track construction the Government will assist positively in keeping a major decentralised Australian industry viable. Finally, I believe that the timber industry in all States provides basic stable employment leading to a confidence which allows the establishment of local economic business interests, community activities, development work programs and tourism, and provides an incentive to rural pursuits. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he intend to visit Bunbury during tho forthcoming State by-election. 
Did he state that he proposes to make Bunbury the growth centre of Western Australia. 
If so, has he received any request from tho Premier of Western Australia designed to achieve this situation. 
What are the proposals. 
Has any investigation or cost/benefit study of any kind been concluded. 
Will the proposals be announced prior to or after the by-election on 7th April 1973. 
I rise late at night to speak on this Bill. As we are all aware, not much has been changed in this Bill from the legislation which existed when the previous Government set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority in 1972, but there are a couple of important changes. The Opposition has foreshadowed an amendment which I fully support. I sincerely hope that in fairness the Government takes note of the points that have been raised by the Opposition in its foreshadowed amendments and during the debate. I may have an opportunity to say something about the amendment later at the Committee stage. 
I find that the hardest part to understand about this new legislation is why the Government has gone to the extent of changing the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to the Cities Commission. When the National Urban and Regional Authority Act was introduced - I will be the first to concede that it was introduced fairly late last year - there was a feeling among people in many sparsely populated areas, such as the area I represent, that at last the penny had dropped and that we were in fact to see a real endeavour being made to bring about regional development and true decentralisation. I do not argue against national development or the development of cities, but I would like to see this development incorporated with true regional development. 
I feel that dropping the words 'regional development' from the name of the authority is only symbolic of what this present Labor Government is about. I think that perhaps it has lost sight of the fact that there are areas other than big cities. I know that the Act introduced by the previous Government dealt with big cities. It did not matter where they were. It could have been Albury-Wodonga. But my people hopefully believed that smaller areas such as Bunbury and Albany, towns of 15,000 and 20,000 people, would come under the scrutiny of the Federal Government and be considered for some type of development. There is a great big world outside the cities, and I know all honourable members are aware of that. But I would venture to say that although many people are living in the industrialised towns and big cities the rural areas are still the wealth producing areas of Australia and we depend on the continued prosperity of these areas. Today it may not matter so much whether the farmers are doing so well because of a degree of prosperity in the rural areas. We should look at rural areas from the point of view of educational, sporting and cultural facilities - in fact the growth of the whole range of amenities and facilities that others enjoy. These areas have to be considered. I feel that this Government has shown its colours in changing the name of the former authority because it did not want the name to be confused with that of a successful authority introduced by the previous Government. In changing the name of the former authority to the Cities Commission the Government has shown that it is not vitally interested in the rural areas. 
For a moment I will refer to the farming situation and how it affects everyone who lives in rural areas. The present Government seems to lack comprehension of what is going on within these areas. We have just seen a new Wool Industry Bill presented. One could almost say that it is fair enough because this year the wool industry is going through a period of prosperity. The levy imposed on wool growers has gone from 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent. The increased worth of the Australian wool clip makes the wool growers contribution far in excess of any past contribution. Of course, this makes a tremendous amount  of  difference. 1 think it is fair enough. The wool industry today can afford it but what of the contribution made by this industry to the  Prosperity  of the nation. Look at the compensation that was paid to rural industries following revaluation  of  our currency in December. 
It worked out that way, particularly in the fruit industry, which is an industry on the border line of meeting Its costs. The Wool Industry Bill was introduced, as far as I know, without any consultation with the wool industry. Some weeks ago the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  when he was in Paris, made a statement which affected the structure of the wheat industry. My worry is that somewhere along the line the Government has forgotten where the wealth producing areas of Australia are. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question on 13th March 1973. My State - Western Australia - exports far more than it imports. Perhaps one could say, as people do in Western Australia, that we carry the eastern States. I asked the Prime Minister: 
Did the Prime Minister receive a request from the Labor Premier of Western Australia 3 weeks ago. . . . 
The main point of my question was about revaluation. My question continued: 
Did the Prime Minister see a report of a statement by the Western Australian Premier last Saturday that he has been unable even te get a reply to his request? Finally, do his Government's policies in favour of the big cities mean that the welfare of the small States which export much more than they import is to be sacrificed in favour of the most populous States? 
The Prime Minister said that he had received a letter from the Western Australian Premier, but his reply concluded: 
The Australian Government is interested in people, wherever they live. In the honourable gentleman's State a larger percentage of people live in the capital city than is the case in any other State. For the first time there is now  aa  Australian Government which is actively helping the Western Australian Government meet the demands of the population of  its  capital city. 
That had nothing to do with the vast area of Western Australia that extends from Darwin to Esperance and takes in a third of the continent. A lot of people live outside of the city. There are many large and small towns but there is only one city in Western Australia and it probably would  not  even qualify as a major city by eastern States standards. There happens to be a whole heap of regional towns of between 15,000 and 20,000 people who are looking to this Government to fulfil the promise that it will do something about regional development. I believe that most of the things have been said that should have been said in this debate. However, I wanted to try to explain very briefly to the Government that the wealth producing areas of the nation are looking for leadership in true decentralisation not for the promotion of new large cities. I hope that the Government will consider the regional development that was proposed in the earlier legislation rather than concentrate on cities. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface the question by referring to the Prime Minister's answer to a question put by the honourable member for Darling Downs on 8th May. This question related to the Australian Labor Party's proposed policy on rural finance, as contained in the booklet 'Its Time - Rural'. The Prime Minister's full answer was: 
The question of long term finance is still before the Cabinet. It has not been determined as quickly as I had hoped, because as honourable members will know, the Minister for Primary Industry has had to attend overseas conferences. 
In the light of this answer, I ask: Does such an important field of policy for rural Australia depend to this extent on the Minister for Primary Industry and, if so, how many days has the Minister spent overseas? Does the Prime Minister consider these conferences worth while if they lead to serious neglect of this Minister's responsibility at home? Can the Prime Minister see that this Minister gives higher priority to considerations of long term finance at low interest rates for rural Australia as promised? 
I think that the honourable members for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and New England  (Mr Sinclair)  have forcefully debated the Bill. Much of what the honourable members for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  and Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  have said shows an understanding of the industry. We on this side of the House support the amendment which reads: 
That ali words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not refusing the bill a second reading, this House deplores the fact that the Government's decisions were made without proper consultation with industry leaders, the fact that a three year program has been cut to a one year program, making forward planning virtually impossible, and thirdly, the fact that the present Government has broken an undertaking given by the previous Government to the Australian Wool Industry Conference.'. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro has much criticism of the Australian Wool Corporation. He said that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  had had consultation with the executive of the Aus tralian Wool Industry Conference. This I doubt - or perhaps they did not understand what one another said. In discussion with me, the representatives of the farming and grazing organisations in Western Australia, where I have grown wool for many years, indicated that there had not been any consultation with the Government. Perhaps the Minister just told the AWIC what was going on. During its life the Australian Wool Board reported to the industry through the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Now the Australian Wool Corporation, which is a body structured from the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission, will do the same. 
One of the matters that the Board referred to the growers last year was the budgetary requirements of the International Wool Secretariat for research and promotion, in addition to the requirements of the wool production research institutes in Australia, and the research carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, State Departments of Agriculture and institutes of agriculture and State universities. This financing, as we know, was done by means of a grower levy and Federal Government subsidies. As has been stated tonight, because of the low values of wool in recent years budget requirements have had to be curtailed extensively, particularly internationally. Growers' contributions have been 1 per cent of gross proceeds deducted as a tax. The Commonwealth Government has met the difference between grower contributions and the budgetary requirements. In fact, the Commonwealth has paid up to $27m in a year. 
The Australian Wool Board prepared the budget for the next triennium - 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. In 1972 the Commonwealth Government suggested to the Australian Wool Industry Conference that the Government would contribute 533m in the first year of the triennium, rising to $42m in the final year on the basis of the grower contribution increasing. After debate, the AWIC agreed to growers contributing 1.6 per cent - an increase of 0.6 per cent - for promotion and research, and in addition 0.4 per cent as a levy for the administrative expenses of the Australian Wool Corporation, provided that the Federal Government agreed to maintain its contribution at the levels proposed. This was a firm commitment entered into by the previous Government and now, without consultation with the wool industry, this Government has broken that understanding. 
The Wool Tax Administration Act of 1964 allows for a maximum tax of 2 per cent on wool growers in order to finance promotion and research, and the Wool Industry Act allows for a maximum of 0.4 per cent for financing the administrative costs of the Wool Corporation. Following the change of government, the industry could not obtain an indication of the Government's acceptance of the Australian wool industry's recommendation, which caused some concern to the Australian Wool Corporation because of its need to be able to implement policies based on a knowledge of income available to it to meet both domestic and international spending through its contributions to the International Wool Secretariat. 
The Government, when it did make an announcement, caught the industry by surprise in that it adopted 2 new policies. Firstly, it did not consult the industry prior to making its decisions which were somewhat different from what the industry had previously discussed and, secondly, it adopted a policy of enforcing the total contributions payable by growers through the system of taxing and levies as allowable under the various Acts of Parliament. In so doing, the Government also appears to have adopted a third new policy - that of contributing on a dollar for dollar basis, a principle which is not unacceptable to the industry but which is fraught with danger in the wool industry where prices can rise 200 per cent to 300 per cent in a year and fall just as dramatically. To enlarge on that, the industry's budgetary requirements need to be assessed and calculated for a lengthy period in advance. This is necessary not only from the technical point of view of planning research programs often in advance but also to attract skilled labour which would not be attracted if it were aware that research was to be controlled by a financing scheme which could be substantially decreased if the price of wool fell in any one year - a situation, as I have just described, not unknown to the wool industry. 
The Government appears to have assessed what the likely average return per bale will be for the next 12 months and, on the basis of a 2.4 per cent levy and a tax, has calculated a payment by growers of $22m. To this the Government has agreed to add an additional $22m for only one year commencing 1 July 1973. The Government has announced that it will reappraise the position in the light of the then current situation and the anticipated situation in December 1973 and then, early in 1974, will go to the industry with its recommendations for the years 1974-75 and 1975- 76. Should growers returns fall below the estimated level, the Government's contribution will decrease below the anticipated level of $22m, and so some projects might require to be curtailed or abandoned. Should values increase, it is expected that surplus funds will be allocated to a trust reserve account from which growers' payments could be assisted in years of low income. 
The Government has stated that the Wool Corporation's reserves will be available to meet deficits which might arise if increases in the costs of programs prove to be greater than anticipated or if the revenue from the tax is less than expected. These statements cause some concern in view of the Labor Party's pre-election platform promises of marketing reform. If - and I emphasise 'if - the industry is placed in a position of relative stability through marketing reform, long term planning of expenditures can be made in the light of a certain degree of return made possible by that stability. Therefore, growers should not need to contribute possibly substantial amounts to a reserve fund in order to provide for future years of low income. I mention this in a constructive context for the Government to consider. 
As a wool producer myself, I have nothing but admiration for the Wool Corporation, which got a slight hammering from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, and for its personnel and the manner in which it has conducted its and our business over the last 2 years. But the legislation which controls the Wool Corporation makes it dear that the profits, which could be approximately $25m over the last couple of years of operation, made by the Corporation should go into reserves and not be returned to the growers. I believe that this money should be used by the Corporation actively to enforce a sound reserve price scheme and not used for areas other than that of market control. 
In conclusion, it appears that this Federal Labor Government has transferred at least $10m from the wool industry for other purposes this financial year. While it can be argued that the industry can afford it this year, the Government had done this without providing for effective stability in the industry or marketing provisions for the long term requirements of the industry in the areas of research and promotion. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I believe that many representations have been made to him, particularly from Western Australia, regarding the Commonwealth's living away from home allowance for isolated children. Did the Minister anticipate when introducing this benefit that some States would discontinue their assistance in this field? Secondly, is he aware of the reality of the means test in truly isolated areas such as the north of Western Australia? 
Tonight I wish the attention of this national Parliament to be drawn to the plight of the isolated children in some of the remoter areas of Australia. I believe that this Government has acted in good faith in introducing the present scheme of assistance to these children. Its contribution would have been a generous one to a section of our community who are disadvantaged by where they live if it had been accepted by the States in the manner in which it was offered. In response to my question this morning the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said: 
When we launched this scheme an appeal was made to the State governments to continue their form of assistance monetarily, their travel warrants, rail warrants and so on that assist isolated children. 
He also said, as reported in the 'Australian' of 19 January 1973, that he hoped the States would not halt grants to outback students because of the Federal Government's intention to give them additional financial aid. I believe that the Minister's intentions were made abundantly clear. This was to be an addition, a topping up of the assistance to isolated children given by the States. But some States - and I make particular reference to Western Australia - could not drop their responsibilities quickly enough, and near chaos has been the result. The Western Australian State Government immediately this year dropped its grants to isolated children. The Federal scheme in Western Australia is not understood. Application forms for assistance have not been applied for, have not been sent out or have not been sent back. The Minister said this morning that only a third of these forms had been returned. I say again that obviously the scheme is not being understood. I am sure that any one of us here who received an application form telling us that we would receive $350 per child would ensure that the application form was sent off in the next mail, affluent as we may be in comparison with the people concerned in this issue. 
Might I just also comment on the Minister's answer to my question this morning regarding the  Hon.  W. R. Withers and his part in supposedly discouraging people from applying by the campaign that he is waging. Firstly the Minister implied that nearly all the representations he has had on this subject came from the  Hon.  H. R. Withers. 
The Minister implied that other groups were not concerned. 
I feel that this is far from the case. If that is not implied, I can assure the Minister that members of the Isolated Children's Section and the Hostels Association and such people are most concerned. The Honourable W. R. Withers represents in the Western Australian Parliament the people in the North Province electorate. He is a hard working, dedicated man and he has the confidence of the people in the north. I feel that the people go to him and make representations when they have problems. This is how I thought government should work especially as this has been a State matter. I think people should go to their State members so that the information can be correlated, sifted and presented to the Federal Minister who is concerned without everyone running to him and perhaps loading him down with additional work. 
I have said that the Honourable W. R. Withers has had the strongest representations made to him from people concerned about isolated children, including Captain David Perry who is the  chairman  of the Port Hedland Hostels Association. He has passed on to the Minister not only his own thoughts but also the thoughts of a very concerned and very unhappy community today. The honourable W. R. Withers has also urged the Western Australian Government to find out - and the Federal Minister referred to this today - why people had not received or sent back the forms. He has also asked whether it would be possible to advertise through the Press and on radio to inform the people on this matter and to urge them to claim boarding allowances or to contact the Department if they had not received application forms in order to find out what they should do. I believe that the Minister did unfairly denigrate the Honourable W. R. Withers this morning because his actions have been only in the interests of thu people he represents. 
What has led to this concern and worry on the part of these unhappy people in the north of Western Australia? As I said earlier, on the face of it the scheme is a good one. There is an across the board grant of $350 to all isolated children. There is an additional amount of $350 which may be applied under a means test. There is a further amount of $304 for cases of special hardship. The additional amount of $350 which is subject to a means test is granted where the gross combined income is below $4,200. This limit in these isolated areas is truly unrealistic. At Kununurra in the north of Western Australia the average earnings of a labourer working for the Public Works Department - including overtime - are $5,720 per annum. A carpenter who works approximately the same amount of overtime would receive $6,500. A fourthyear clerk would receive $6,760. Honourable members can see how unrealistic a means test of $4,200 is when a labourer receives $5,720 annually. The cost of living is so high in these areas that the means test is at least $2,000 below the required level. At the wage level for the people I have mentioned they could not afford to send their children away from home to high schools under the present system of allowances unless the wives worked to bring in extra money. One must remember that areas such as Kununurra and Wyndham have no school hostel and the children have to travel to the nearest high school hostel which is at Port Hedland, approximately 1,000 miles away. 
The cancellation of State assistance which was $312 for fourth and fifth-year students plus the Commonwealth across the board grant of $350 may have been adequate. The State of Western Australia has left this Federal Government high and dry. Let us look at rising costs. The fees even at the Port Hedland hostel have risen above $350. The people and the children are today left in a worse position than they were in 12 months ago even with the best endeavours of the federal scheme. There is another unusual twist to the fate of many people as a result of the introduction of this scheme. Some people are now receiving less money than they did before. I mention the case of a fourth or fifth-year girl who won a nursing bursary. Under the old system she received $250 bursary and $312 State living away from home allowance, giving a total of $562 for the year. Under the present system she does not qualify for the federal allowance because she is under bond. She does not even qualify for the first $350. After the State allowances were cancelled she was left with a bursary of $250. 
Yes. I am sorry that I did not mention that. That is all that she receives. That lass now gets $312 less than she received before. One would have assumed that she would be better off because of the federal allowance of $350 compared to the former State allowance of $312, but in fact she has lost $312. I appreciate that the Minister said this morning that the means test and zone allowances were under review but time goes by. It is almost the middle of the year. Tonight I spoke with  Mrs Margaret  Lacy who is an acquaintance, I believe, of the Minister for Education. She is very involved with isolated children. She has 4 children of her own and she lives out at Meekatharra. As soon as the forms were available she filled them in and returned them but she has not received any money yet, nor to her knowledge has anyone else in her area. The money is not flowing on to the hostels. I repeat, as I said earlier, that chaos is reigning supreme. I wonder how  Mrs Lacy  feels today. Some months ago she came to see the Minister for Education who was then the shadow Minister for Education and after an hour and a half spent in an interview she said, as is reported in the 'West Australian' of 26 April 1972: 
The ALP sees education as a total concept with equal opportunity for all children.  Mr Kim  Beazley, M.H.R., said that disadvantaged children would automatically be taken care of, and therefore, there would be no need for this piecemeal approach, where associations such as ours had to plead the cause of the underprivileged. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to a telegram sent by the Prime Minister to a newspaper in Bunbury, Western Australia, in September (972 in which he outlined his Party's decentralisation policy and in which he said that Bunbury would be nominated 'as an area of concentrated growth*. I ask the' Prime Minister! In view of the recent statement in Perth by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development supporting development of the Salvador area north of Perth, can the Prime Minister allay the grave concern now held by the people of Bunbury by confirming hS promise to them that Bunbury would be a regional growth centre and receive Commonwealth financial support? 
Tonight I wish to draw to the attention of this national Parliament the plight of some of our small outports around the coast of Australia. In doing this I wish to refer to the Port of Albany in Western Australia as an example of such ports. Concern in the town of Albany has been expressed for many years by the local authorities, the port authorities - in fact by all those concerned with the wellbeing of the town and the region. Albany is a beautiful, natural and safe port on the south coast of Western Australia. This port services a vast region stretching hundreds of miles into the hinterland. I would like to refer to the port itself. In its present natural state it has a depth of 34 feet. With very little effort this depth could be increased to 40 feet in Princes Royal Harbour which is the inner harbour. There is a safe big outer harbour which has a natural depth of 70 feet. That is King George Sound. It would be quite possible to develop a major port there. In fact, it has been estimated that in the Gull Rock area a major port 70-feet deep could be developed without any trouble at all for approximately $7m. In the interests of decentralisation this port should be improved. With the connection of a standard gauge rail link through the wheat belt of Western Australia it could service and ship all the grain from the southern area of Western Australia. This would relieve the congestion at Fremantle and Kwinana. 
I turn now to the figures relating to freight shipped from that port for the area around Albany and, to indicate its growth, to compare them with the figures for Fremantle and Kwinana over the last few years. In 1967-68, freight shipped into Albany amounted to 200,000 tons approximately. Freight discharged at Albany in 1971-72 was 137,000 tons. It can be seen quite readily from those figures how the shipping at this port has dropped over the last few years, despite the fact that it is a magnificant port and a growing region. It is very hard to draw a comparison between the export figures for Albany and Fremantle, but putting Fremantle and Kwinana together the ship-out figure is in the vicinity of 6,482,000 tons. The figure for Albany is 647,000 tons. One can readily see from these figures that whilst Albany has grown as an export port in the last few years, as have Fremantle and Kwinana, there is just no comparison in the tonnage shipped from the ports. 
I feel that it is terribly important that I should bring this subject up tonight because the community, the municipality and particularly our mayor,  Mr Harold  Smith of Albany, who is a true believer in decentralisation, have been very active in promoting the port.  Mr Smith  has been working for the promotion of the port for a number of years. He has been battling, as have the Industrial Advisory Committee and the other groups that are concerned with Albany and the region, for many years to try to stop the downgrading of the port of Albany. Only in the last 2 days, after consultation with and letters to the Oversea Shipping Representatives Association, a reply was received. After all the work that had been put into trying to promote Albany as a port and so help the town and the region, this is the attitude that the OSRA took. I quote from the reply to the Albany Town  Clerk.  It reads in part: 
The port of Albany lacks the necessary facilities to cater for cellular container ships which were introduced progressively from 1969 into the AustraliatoEurope trade in an endeavour to restrict the extent of freight increases resulting from the traditional methods of operating labour intensive conventional vessels. The economics of operating these specialised cellular container ships dictate that concentration of cargo should take place at a limited number of major ports where considerable capital investment in shore facilities has been necessary to handle these ships. 
The letter ends: 
Taking all the circumstances into account we are unable to give you the assurance you have asked for. 
That was for concerned consideration for service from OSRA - 
But the Conference members that operate ships physically capable of loading directly at Albany will give consideration to berthing such vessels there subject to the availability of sufficient cargo to warrant a direct call. 
That is reasonable, but they have been saying that for quite a number of years now. Last year this Conference Line lifted very little wool from Albany, although I might say that last year the Western Australian Government, in its wisdom, introduced a 50 per cent rail concession for the whole region stretching about 150 miles north of Albany for farmers who shipped their wool through Albany. The direct purpose of this was to assist the port and the wool selling centre. Yet today, although it is fair to say that the Conference lines that operate to Japan ship from Albany all the wool purchased for Japan, barely a bale is shipped through the port of Albany to Europe. There were 109,000 bales sent to Japan through the port of Albany, but 63,000 bales for European destinations were sent to Fremantle for containerisation. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is not in the chamber but I ask, especially in relation to the wool situation, what is the validity of the continued statements by all those concerned - mainly the shipping companies - that cellular containers are the most economic method of transporting all cargoes? What is the premise for this attitude in respect of wool? What does the Government consider is the future of these outports such as Albany, Portland and Bunbury? While this Government espouses a theory of decentralisation, the Conference lines which service Australia believe in centralisation. What is the Government's attitude to this situation and can it assist in any way the smaller outports of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development representing the Minister for Primary Industry. To assist farmers in building drought reserves to help avoid disastrous stock losses the previous Government introduced special depreciation provisions for hay sheds and silos which enabled their cost to be written off in the year of construction. What allowance will be made for such structures under the Government's recent Budget decisions? 
I find it extremely difficult to follow the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls).  I listened attentively and, quite truthfully, I cannot find anything in his speech worth commenting on, as should be done in a debate. It was well worked ground if ever I have heard it. So, I should like to make some comments on the broad fields of the Budget and the discussion up to date of the effects of the Budget on the future wellbeing of Australia. Firstly, I sincerely support the amendment so ably moved by my leader, the Leader of the Oppostion  (Mr Snedden),  on 28 August and commend him for his achievement that night. 
Thank you. I commend the Leader of the Opposition for the substance of his speech and the forthright manner in which he stated it. Personally, I am amazed at the Budget and endorse the comments made by all Opposition speakers during this debate. It is a highly inflationary Budget that blatantly takes away from the private sector to spend on the public sector at a time when inflation is increasing at an unprecedented rate. Of this there is no doubt. This has been well explained by my colleagues on this side of the House. 
During this debate we have heard continually from Government supporters, in reply to our criticism of the inflationary trend of the Budget and the massive 19 per cent increase in Government spending: 'OK, what would you not have spent money on?' The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on 29 August said: 
The Premier- 
He was referring to the Premier of Victoria- and the Leader of the Opposition have both stated publicly that the Commonwealth should cut back on spending. That is a very nice sentiment indeed. It is one they do not believe for one minute, because neither is prepared to suggest what moneys should not be spent that will be spent in this Budget. 
Similar comments have repeatedly been made by members on the Government benches. I believe that if ever I have seen the 3-card trick in action, this surely is it. Say, for the sake of argument, the Government had allocated in the Budget additional money for pensions, health, housing, education, social security, conservation and urban and regional development - you name it - amounting to many more hundreds of millions of dollars than has been allocated under this Budget and it had balanced its budget by dipping still further into the private sector. Would it not still be extremely difficult for an Opposition to say: 'You should not have spent so much on any one of those projects'? It is not possible to endeavour at this stage to be selective. No matter how much is spent on, say, urban and regional development there still will be room to spend more and, once an amount of money is promised, it is not reasonable to suggest that an Opposition should selectively say, or be in the position to say, that this is too much, and that it should be cut back here or there. This would be like one person giving a bag of lollies to a child and another charged with the task of taking back half. That is completely unreasonable and I hope that we do not hear any more of this attitude during the debate. 
I have no doubt that the previous Government would have liked to introduce such a grandiose budget - a budget to advance the welfare, standard of living, education and quality of life of the average Australian. There is no doubt also that there has been a tremendous lift in all these fields over the last 23 years. But the previous Government could not have introduced a budget such as we have before us today. There is one particular hurdle that the previous Government could not have avoided or overcome and that was its responsibility to bring in a responsible budget and its duty to maintain a strong private sector out of which true wealth for all could flow. It was the previous Government's duty to lift up all the people and not to smash down some - those some' being the people who create the wealth of this nation. It was its responsibilty not to kill the goose that, year in year out, laid the golden egg, as this Government may find it has done. So I condemn the Budget and support the amendment. 
Turning to more specific aspects of the Budget, I was intrigued by the statement of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  on 28 August when, among other things he said: 
The Treasurer has won the admiration of the majority of Australians. The 1973 Budget has brought an abrupt end to the stop-go, boom-bust policies of successive Liberal-Country Party governments. 
He may be so right. By the very ruthlessness of the Budget towards the rural areas, mining and private companies, one can assume only that succeeding budgets will follow the same pattern. They will have to follow this pattern for the Government to maintain its heavy programs of public expenditure into which it has entered. So, the honourable member for Lilley may be dead right. There will be no more stop-go, as he wishes to interpret the last 23 years of sound economic management; rather, it will be all stop. 
Let me refer briefly to the treatment of the rural industries and, so, the rural people of Australia by this Government in the short space of 9 months. I will be brief because I realise that this matter has been well canvassed during the debate by my colleagues from this side of the House. The Government has slashed rural reconstruction funds, the butter and cheese bounty and free school milk. It has imposed an export tax on meat. Fuel will be dearer and country prices will rise by up to 7c a gallon. Telephone installations will rise and rentals will increase in the country areas alone. Postal concessions are being abolished and the main brunt of the resultant increases will fall on country communities. We have had revaluation after revaluation. Interest charges are now being forced up. Election promises, such as the promise of $500m at low interest to assist the rural areas which was made just before 2 December - not so very long ago - have been quickly forgotten and replaced with this punitive attitude. All these naturally add to the cost of living and production for the greatest decentralised industry in Australia, namely, our rural industry. This Budget makes sure that we do not have a stop-go rural economy and that it is all stop. 
On top of these charges there is to be a loss of taxation incentives. I believe that it is going to be extremely difficult for an average farmer to attend to the maintenance of his property, let alone carry out improvements and developments. For many years, the rural industries, lumped as a whole, have had a hard time. Drought and calamitous prices for rural products together with the cost price squeeze have caused difficulties we have all experienced. What joy was felt when good prices returned and, I remind honourable members, this is the first year of good prices for many primary producers. For one reason or another many primary producers did not participate in good prices and/ or good seasons last year. 
The satisfaction was felt of being able to put the farm in order and to catch up with the jobs that had been neglected through lack of finance. Fences were to be brought up to scratch and new haysheds erected. The yards could be upgraded. Why,  Mr Speaker,  people started to walk tall again. The wheel had turned and faith was seeping back into rural areas. Properties would be restored and able to utilise the resources of land for the good of all. More acres could be cleared and a modest development program entered into. These things should have been done years ago. But now it is clear that this is not to be; Assistance through taxation deductions is finished, or all but finished. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  also, that fear and confusion are abroad down on the farm and in the rural areas generally. 
What of the future? Can rural areas expect this erosion to continue? Are the untouched suggestions in the Coombs report to be left on the tram or are they merely on ice for the next Budget? Are country people now expected to put up with disadvantages in relation to the people of cities? What has become of Labor's vaunted commitment to decentralisation? That this Budget will kill the growth of rural industries appears to me to be a perfect example of the unsound manner in which the Government attacks most problems. Much is made by the Government of rising meat prices, their effect on the cost of living and so on inflation. The method of overcoming this problem would be to tax exports of meat, it seems, not as we have been led to believe in the Budget at the rate of lc per lb but 1.6c per lb for beef and buffalo and calf meat. As  Mr Sinclair,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, ably pointed out, this is one of the hidden charges in the Budget that is only now seeing the light of day. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  referred to those hidden charges in his speech earlier tonight. The method of overcoming the problem is to tax exports of meat. Exporters are to be disadvantaged and it is hoped that more meat will be forced onto the home market. 
Export incentives for meat have been removed. The incentive is taken away from an industry which obviously, for the good of the community, needs to expand its production. The result of such expanded production would be the catching up with the world under supply position and the earning of overseas credits. The general result would be cheaper meat on the home market. With a world shortage of all proteins it borders on the criminal to retard production as the Budget will do. The Government is gambling on the short term gain but it may well find that in the long term no one will be better off. With a slowing down of maintenance and development and orders for machinery, goods and services falling off the Government may quickly find that rural Australia is the life blood of the nation. 
Export earnings seem to be dirty words these days. Who needs them? Our overseas credits are massive so that any future overseas earnings seem to be an embarrassment to us. I believe that such thinking is so wrong and misleading as to be blatantly irresponsible. For the first time in many years we as a nation have actually balanced our books. Our exports have equalled our imports. Foreign capital entering the country for investment made up the balance of our overseas funds. It is quite conceivable that foreign investors will not be breaking a leg in future to get to the land of opportunity. Without the influx of money surely Australia must stand in a position of paying its own way. It is our duty to pay for goods we receive and we need most of our imports. We are better off for them and so we need viable, strong, prosperous and expanding export industries. 
I ask the Treasurer to make clear the intentions of the Government for the rural people of Australia. Farming decisions are made in the long term. Agriculture is not a month by month or even year by year business. Investment decisions may take years to implement and to come to fruition. A statement on the long term objectives of the Government is the very least that rural Australia could expect and is entitled to. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen reports that Russia has established supply buoys in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Western Australia, apparently as part of the Indian Ocean supply system for Russian submarines and warships? Is this report correct? What steps are the armed forces taking to monitor or keep under surveillance Russian naval movements off the coast of Western Australia? Is there any threat to Australia's security? Can the Minister assure the people of Western Australia that the defence services in that State are adequate for the continuing security of Western Australia? 
The ruthless manner by which this Government is determined to reduce the rural community of Australia to second class citizenship is demonstrated by the measures taken under these 3 Bills dealing with post and telegraph charges. It has been eloquently pointed out by previous speakers from this side of the House the practical reasons why this will be a great disservice to the rural people and should be opposed with all the vigour that we can muster. The Government's vindictive treatment of the rural people knows no bounds and in an endeavour to reduce the rural people to second class citizenship it is quite prepared to damage people who are politically close to it. We are concerned about not only country newspapers but also a host of other publications that had, quite rightly because of distances and place of publication, received postal concessions. These publications contribute to a valuable public service in the disseminating of news, opinion and information of a technical, scientific, educational, religious or other equally worthwhile purpose in a way that cannot be matched by any other means. The practice in most Western countries is for mail of this type to be distributed cheaply in the public interest. 
It is well known throughout the length and breadth of the land that the Liberal Party is interested in and represents all sections of the community. I believe that the position of the rural community has been well canvassed and explained by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the Liberal members for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  Angas  (Mr Giles)  and Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the Country Party member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  Being interested, as I have said, in all sections of the community, I would like to speak for and on behalf of the unions of Australia. In particular, I would like to speak on behalf of the Australian Workers Union since no one from the other side of the House has risen to defend its position; and speaking on its behalf, I speak also on behalf of all organisations like it I would like to quote extensively from the editorial published in the 'Australian Worker' of Wednesday, 29 August, because of the deep concern which this union has shown over these measures. The editorial is headed 'We Believe' and states: 
In one fell swoop the Federal Treasurer cleared the decks, as he put it, to initiate Labor's great welfare program and at the same time he put the kiss of death on every Union journal in Australia. 
There is no Union in this country which can afford the absolutely intolerable postal charges amounting to at least a SOO per cent increase over the next three years that were announced in the Federal Budget. 
The Treasurer, and the Cabinet, made a mockery of the ongoing Post Office Inquiry. The Inquiry was begun by Labor to find ways to improve the postal service. But did Cabinet, which is said to frame the Budget collectively, wait to hear the results of ils own Inquiry? It did not 
Instead, the Treasurer waded-in and slapped down the users of the 'B' category postal service by announcing the phasing out of the concession rates. That means that within the next three years this newspaper, for instance, must pay the full going postal rate, and on present size it would cost around IS cents a copy to post- about $234,000 a year, for postage alone. 
The Government's decision is nothing less than a stab in the back to the Trade Union Movement which spawned at least some of those in Canberra who helped to make this decision. By destroying the Trade Union Press - and that is what the removal of this postal concession means - the Labor Party has lost one of its most loyal partners and the only real avenue the Party had to get unslanted political news to its supporters. 
If those who have set out to destroy the Trade Union Press think for one minute that the general media will tell the story as it truly is, simply because Labor is presently the Government, then they ate stupidly naive. 
I am giving the Australian workers the opportunity to be heard in this debate in this Parliament This report continues: 
As important as that aspect of this monumental blunder is, the real damage will be to the ordinary worker. He, or she, must depend upon their Union publications to be informed on their Award conditions and proper rates of pay, as well as myriad of other industrial matters. 
This Union has contended at the Post Office Inquiry that there should be no feelings of alarm over the postal service suffering a financial loss as shown in the balance sheet The fact is that most of the losses shown by the postal service are directly attributable to paper debts and interest payments to the Treasury. In other words interest paid by one Government facility to another on major capital works done for Big Business. 
The article went on to state: 
We warned at the Post Office Inquiry that if any further postal charge imposts were visited upon the Trade Union Press it would finish off those that have not already ceased publication as a result of the 125 per cent increases already loaded onto us by the Coalition Governments. Labor should think twice before putting this measure into effect. 
I bring this quite seriously to the notice of the House because of the effect that this decision is having on the union publications and on all the other publications that I mentioned earlier. I hope that the Government will take notice of this powerful union and the last sentence in that article: 
Labor should think twice before putting this measure into effect. 
There may be a threat in that sentence for the Government and it might soon be realised if this legislation is put into operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What sum in customs and excise duties on petroleum products has been collected in each State during each of the years from 1968-69 to1972-73. 
On what gallonage of motor spirit was customs and excise duties levied during each of the same years. 
What increases in customs and excise duties on fuel have been made during each of the same years. 
What payments have been made to each State under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969. 
What payments have been made to each State under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act in each year since the inception of the scheme. 
How many motor vehicles were registered in each State during each of the years from 1968-69 to 1972-73. 
Br J. F. Cairns - The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The net customs and excise revenue collected on petroleum products by States is: 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  who spoke in this debate last night and again tonight, made much of the amount of money appropriated in the Budget for education. He spoke of it as if it were the most important thing in the world but money is not the most important ingredient. Certainly it is very important, but planning, dedication and interest of teachers and parent participation are just as important, to my mind. There is no doubt that there has been an earnest endeavour by the Government to improve the standard of education in Australia. Of that there can be no doubt, especially if the spending of money is the criterion. One cannot quarrel with a government that is earnestly endeavouring to improve education. To criticise that would be like criticising Australian Rules football in Melbourne. 
What worries me is that the emphasis in education expenditure in the Budget is placed on tertiary and post-secondary education. One cannot really argue by drawing a comparison and saying that primary and secondary education are being disadvantaged alongside tertiary education, but I believe that primary education is the most disadvantaged area within our educational system. I would have liked more emphasis to be placed in the Budget on primary school expenditure. I believe that there is something completely wrong with the whole educational field. Naturally within the time allotted to me I can deal with only one aspect of the problems I see. What I am about to say is not intended to reflect on the Government. It is rather an observation on the system today and I am pleased to see that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is in the chamber tonight to hear what I have to say. 
Let us have a look at a typical school in a rural area. I know that there are similar schools in city areas but the school of which 
I will speak is well known to me. Student numbers there have been reasonably static over the last few years, yet the classrooms are inadequate and have not been improved. Six demountable rooms have been used there for a number of years. I will read to the Committee a letter I received from a young teacher enjoying her first year in the country. She wrote: 
There are 2 grade one classes at Mount Barker primary school. I have 41 children in my class and there are 42 in the other. Most of my class had no kindergarten. Most of them have birthdays between July and December. 
That means that they start school at about 5 years of age. She went on: 
Up to 10 of them should not have started school till next year because they  aTe  not ready for it. 
I remind honourable members that in the rural area concerned the children have no opportunity for kindergarten experience. I gather from the teacher's comment that she means she must button up the shirts and tie up the shoe laces of the children. Referring to the 2 first grade teachers she went on: 
We have both asked the Superintendent (through our headmaster) for another teacher to take a mixed grade one and grade two class. The grade two classes are also large. We were told we could not have another teacher because we had no spaTe classroom. As it is we have 6 demountables in use at the moment and they, have been used for a number of years. Surely grade one is one of the most important years of a child's schooling. How can we teach them to read when our rooms are overcrowded and we have hardly any equipment? 
I appreciate that it is more a State matter than a Federal matter but 'I want to put to the House the situation as it is. I can assure the Minister that it is a cry from the heart of a young idealistic teacher on behalf of her pupils. The story is the same throughout the school. By the time the children reach fifth grade with 2 years still to go, naturally conditions have not improved. Thirty-five pupils are in a small demountable room with a frustrated teacher. When he puts the day's maths on the blackboard, that is it. There is no room for anything else on the blackboard. As I have said, these cramped conditions prevail throughout the school. The main frustration of the teacher lies in his inability to teach as he would like to teach, as teaching should be conducted. 
By the time the pupils reach fifth grade at least one-third of them require special attention to bring them up to normal standard. They are not slow learners who may qualify for the very limited special class at the school. They are children who through the previous grades have just missed the boat. Starting right back at grade one the system has passed them by. I believe that there is no way in the world that they can catch up. The teacher just has not the time, despite his best efforts on behalf of the children. I have a son in the fifth grade at the Mount Barker primary school.  His  teacher is a personal friend of mine and despite his best endeavours and the love, consideration and time that his mother has given him he is in the bottom third of the class. The problem goes further than the educational system passing by the bottom third. The top third are quite capable of learning and absorbing far more knowledge than they are being fed through the present system. It comes about for the very same reason as applies to the bottom third - lack of proper conditions, equipment, teaching aids, rooms and so on. The teacher must stand by in the role of a hopeless bystander observing the squandering of young talent. 
It follows that one-third of the students who arrive at high school do not have the faintest chance of grappling with the system. From these youngsters come the dissenters and trouble makers. Who can really blame them? They are just waiting out their time until they can join the labour force, and perhaps the lower echelon of it. The Government's basic claim is for equality of education for all. To my mind the equality should start right down at grade one. I do not suggest that all children should be educated, no matter what, to university standard, but some of the third I have mentioned leave school with not more than the very basic skills of reading and writing. I suggest that for job opportunity and enjoyment of life a basic sound education should be every person's right. To achieve that end far more emphasis will have to be placed on primary schools than is the case today, perhaps at the expense of the tertiary level of education. 
I would like to make a great number of suggestions regarding the problems of education but the most important that  1  would mention is planning. Obviously in the case of the school I have detailed the main problem is space and classrooms which will result in good teachers. A modern cluster unit would be ideal, but what is the Education Department building right at this moment? It is building a library, despite the fact that there is an adequate library at the school already. It is the same old story. Local teachers, the headmaster and the Parents and Citizens Association were not asked about the school's greatest need - whether it was a library or new school rooms. The answer would have been obvious to the question: 'Do you want a library?' The school may as well have a library as nothing. That is the obvious answer. I have pointed to the greatest area of need in the educational system as I see it. I hope in 12 months time to see the greatest improvement in that area since the taxpayer is required to pay for the massive increase in educational expenditure by the Government. If the schools, particularly in country areas, improve to an acceptable standard, the expenditure will not have been wasted as many people fear it will. But let me assure the Committee that in 12 months time I shall report to the Parliament just what has been the improvement or otherwise in primary schools. 
It is with some concern that I rise during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. I should like to take up just one small part of the Government's action in this Budget which I believe will have a devastating effect on large sections of the rural community of Australia. I refer to the impact that the change in taxation deductions this year as compared with last year will have. What I should like to point out and what this Committee must appreciate is that throughout Australia we have tremendously different areas and conditions. I could not help but become very aware of this when a fortnight ago I went to the Riverina to visit my parents. In that area there is land which has been developed for at least 70 years. The farms are well improved and have been so for probably the last 20 years, with the introduction of pasture improvement, fencing and sheds, all in good order. I contrast that with Western Australia where for the last 16 years in the vicinity of one million acres a year has been brought into production. In Western Australia most of the development has taken place in the last 15 years, and is very new in comparison with the Riverina and the bulk of the Eastern States. There is quite a contrast between the older established areas of the eastern States and Western Australia where the improvement of the farming land is still in its very infancy. In the last 4 years particularly there have been crises caused by low prices and poor seasons as well as the improvement of the land being in its infancy. There has been absolutely no spare money even to keep the farms in order, let alone to upgrade them. A tremendous amount of the rural area in Western Australia is still by no means an economic area for the running of a farm. 
This is the time we were looking forward to - the time when the wheel had turned and when some money could be spent on the additional development that is required to bring a farm up to being an economic area. This is the time when the advantages of the taxation deductions of the last few years could have been used. But we find today that this opportunity has been lost to these areas. I believe that this is an absolute tragedy for vast semi-developed areas of Western Australia and other parts of Australia which are still being developed. I do not think there can be any argument at all today against increasing our development and production in Australia. As we know, many food items are in worldwide short supply. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  very shortly is to attend a Food and Agriculture Organisation meeting in Rome at which action to meet the problems of the world food situation is expected to be discussed. The United States Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger,  has warned of the dangerously low world food reserves and has proposed that a United Nations world food conference bc held next year. As a major food exporter, Australia can hardly play a responsible part in these discussions if it is seen to be simultaneously dismantling its existing incentives for food and fibre production instead of making those incentives more effective and widening them in order that Australia's full potential for food production may be realised. 
To blame the short-sighted and, I believe, punitive Budget actions of this Government on the St George's Terrace farmer - in case 116 members of this House do not know what that means, he is the same as the Pitt Street farmer- 
That is right. St George's Terrace is the main street of Perth, the capital of Western Australia, which is the great exporting State and the State that carries the rest of Australia on its back. Because Western Australia has only 9 members in this chamber - it will have 10 shortly - although in area it represents at least one-third of the continent, this Government has discriminated against Western Australia at every turn. An article in the 'Australian' of 24 October was headed 'Canberra is greedy, Perth chocked'. Truly this is just what is happening to Western Australia. We have seen this Government take control of the oil and natural gas on the north west shelf. We have seen the removal of the tax incentives, of which I have made some mention, and the subsidies for the mining industry which have well been described once again by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the Bill he introduced today. 
Just to show the importance of Western Australia to the economy of Australia I point out that Western Australia's export earnings in 1972-73 were $1,1 58m and imports totalled $394m. It seems to me these days that it is not a great thing for us in this country to be endeavouring to earn money overseas somehow or another to pay one's way in the world and make this a wealthier nation. It does not seem to be the thing to do. But I believe that the time will shortly come when the earning capacity of States like Western Australia will be very much appreciated by the rest of Australia. 
I would just like to make the point once again that in developing areas of Western Australia particularly, but also in the rest of the continent, we have a situation today in which farms are in the very infancy of development in comparison with rural areas in the eastern States. It is just remarkable to see some of the old established land throughout the eastern States and to see how little remains to be done to it by way of improvements and capital expenditure. It has all been done. It is only a matter of upgrading and maintaining the excellent standard they have. In contrast, millions of acres of land have been developed in Western Australia each year over the past few years. I believe that somehow this Government should be able to work out - I would not suggest special consideration should be given because none of us on the land particularly in Western Australia would wish that - some method whereby we can be allowed to catch the main reason given for these punitive budget actions against the rural sector is the Pitt Street farmer, or the people who are not involved in farming, enjoying tax deductions. In order to make them toe the line, to reduce the development of vast areas of our land, must we go to these extremes? I suggest that there must be a better way to organise the present Budget for the development of our land, and for the continued prosperity of all Australians. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.38)- When my time expired on the last occasion I spoke in this debate I was trying to point out that the Australian Labor Party aims to develop an efficient and viable rural sector. We are striving to take the longer view aimed at tailoring production to meet the real demand of the market place and to place farming on a business-like basis with sympathy and understanding. We aim to tackle the big issues such as rural poverty, undersized farms and inefficient marketing. The Labor Government is seeking to bring a sense of purpose to rural policy-making through the proper allocation of resources. 
One of the major decisions taken by the Federal Labor Government is the decision to phase out the dairy bounty. This decision is in line with the Labor Party's contention that all Government expenditure should be purposeful. Despite an outlay of $770m over the years by the previous Government, the bounty has not contributed to solving rural industries' major problem - that of adjusting farm production to realistic levels of demand. As a welfare measure the bounty was inequitable as the bulk of it went to the larger and wealthier farmers who needed it least. Although apparently recognised by the previous Government, the dairy bounty directly frustrated the objectives of the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. Labor, rather than continue the bounty, would prefer to spend money on structural adjustment. The Federal Labor Govern ment stands ready to spend generously on adjustment programs and federal officers are being engaged in consultations with State officials and dairy organisations to discover where the problem areas are and what assistance measures are most appropriate. When these facts are known, plans will be drawn up and funds allocated accordingly. The bounty is being phased out to enable landholders to make whatever adjustments they consider necessary. 
Other steps which have been taken by the Federal Labor Government to meet the needs of primary producers include: The provision of $47.2m mainly for expenditure on rural reconstruction in 1973-74; an amount of $20m has been provided to finance an expanded rural lending program by the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia for a wide range of purposes, namely financing of farm purchase, repayment of short term debts and holding a farm together after the death of the farm proprietor; an amount of $2.6m is to be made available for cattle and beef research - half of this is finance from consolidated revenue, the rest from industry levies on livestock; an amount of $lm has been provided for compensation to stock owners for compulsory slaughter of tuberculosis reactor cattle; a grant of $22m for wool research and promotion in 1973-74 ad the establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission to report on proposals for assistance to primary industries. Honourable members may remember that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has already mentioned the way in which this Commission can be used to assist not only primary industry but also all forms of industry. The Commission will bring out the information on where all industry assistance goes. Other steps taken by the Labor Government to assist the needs of primary producers include: The provision of emergency adjustment assistance to farmers producing export apples and pears and apricots following revaluation of the Australian dollar on 23 December 1972; an extension for a further year of the wheat stabilisation scheme to allow a comprehensive review to be undertaken in conjunction with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation; the provision of a special incentive of 10c per bushel to be added to the usual first advance payment of $1.10 per bushel for wheat harvest and the recent from the 1973-74 wheat harvest and the recent decision to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent will be particularly beneficial to the rural sector and substantially effect the cost of many farm requirements. A cut of this sort has been sought by the rural sector for a long while, but was not introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
It is relevant to note that the various forms and levels of assistance given to landholders in the past have not proved effective in halting the drift to the city. Since 1947, the rural population in Australia declined from approximately 31 per cent of the total population tq 14.3 per cent in 1971. lt is a known fact that 12 months ago many farmers were looking for jobs. They are now complaining that they cannot get suitable labour to work the farms. These are the changed circumstances under a Labor Party government. The Labor Government has indicated its concern in this matter and has established a Department of Urban and Regional Development which will be responsible for implementing a program for fostering extra growth centres. This policy is designed to stem the drift from the country to the city, to improve the educational, recreational and cultural facilities available to country people and to widen the range of employment opportunities in regional centres. It is quite obvious that . the present Labor Government is very conscious of the needs of the country people and wishes to provide them with an opportunity for a better and more comfortable way of life. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  delivered a very informative speech.  His  understanding of the country people quite took my fancy. To go into a rural electorate today and suggest that country people were embarrassed by the previous Government's attitude towards them and at their getting a reasonably fair go over the last few years from that Government- 
Yes, and blaming the Country Party for it. 
Quite seriously, if the honourable member for Hunter went into a rural electorate today - if he went into mine, for instance - and suggested this I do not think he would be applauded. I think he would find that the people in the rural areas would suggest that this Government has endeavoured to make them second class citizens. Much has happened since this Government gained office on 2 December. Much has happened to the rural sector of Australia, not the least being the adverse measures that have been initiated by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. There has been a general raising of postal and telephone charges, an increase in telephone rentals and so on. I believe that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  put the points very well. However, I should like to elaborate on just a couple. 
The latest attack, if I could so describe it, by the Government is manifest in its intention to close down a number of official post offices or change them to non-official status. Seven of these post offices are in my electorate - Balingup, Capel, Cranbrook, Nannup, Pemberton, Tambellup and Yarloop. There are 36 post offices in Western Australia on that list. I was really amazed when I first saw the list. These 7 towns in my electorate I know particularly well. They are towns of some size and in the main they are growing towns. I appreciate that the Government will make much of the supposed fact that services and standards will not be lowered in the changeover from official status to non-official capacity. But I believe that the experience and training of the career postmaster must fit him to provide a more varied and efficient service to the public than is provided by the untrained person who is placed in charge of post office services under non-official conditions. 
In many instances services will be withdrawn purely because of the lack of knowledge and/ or skill required to perform a particular task. It is argued that the reduction in status of the post offices is prompted by financial considerations. I believe that a close study of this aspect will reveal many anomalies. We are all aware that it is necessary to provide an economic service. But the accent should be on 'service' with the lesser emphasis on 'economic'. This has been highlighted by the recent decision in this Commonwealth Parliament when the Budget proposal to increase charges for uneconomic services - I refer to postage rates on newspapers - was not approved. This measure was disallowed as we in this Parliament believe that the delivery of newspapers was a service and was in the best interests of the public generally. 
If the PMG is to operate on a purely economic basis only, we will see the closing of many other services, particularly in remote areas. Under existing financial arrangements the Australian Post Office is required to pay interest on advances from the Treasury for capital or operating expenditure. For the year ending 30 June 1972 the interest charges for the postal services division alone amounted to $13,767,230 while the loss of the division, after providing for depreciation, superannuation, long service leave and interest payments was only $11,253,385. The PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in a paper presented to Parliament during the Budget session, indicated that a substantial proportion of the loss sustained was due to the concessional rate of postage allowed on newspapers. Yet we in this Parliament, as I have mentioned, disallowed the move to overcome the operational loss. The Postmaster-General, I thought, was very happy with the Opposition's amendments once we had explained the need for the continuation of the concession on category A material. This must confirm my contention that the Post Office should provide a public service, in some instances providing all means of communication to people in all walks of life. Incidentally, the savings resulting from the downgrading of the 300 post offices suggested is estimated to be $2m - not a particularly significant amount when the estimated loss on newspaper postage over the next financial year is estimated to be $10.5m. 
The Australian Post Office, as part of the Australian Public Service, has always been advertised as a career service for junior staff. Many of the staff recruited aspire for promotion to postmasters and undertake many years of academic study and service in remote places to fit themselves for this position. Promotional opportunities within the Post Office must be reduced considerably by the Government's proposals. The ranks of postmasters in Western Australia will be cut by nearly 25 per cent and by approximately 20 per cent throughout Australia. As the Post Office offers one of the few opportunities of employment with a future to the young people in country areas, any reduction in that opportunity will have far reaching consequences on the community in general. Also, withdrawal of official Commonwealth Government representatives in the form of Post Office staff in any area will be a retrograde step not only because of the withdrawal of the provision of a complete and effective postal service but because of the loss to the many associations which rely so much on the official staff for assistance. 
In small towns postmasters and postal staff usually take full part in the activities of the towns, in service clubs and the like. The loss of the purchasing power of the postmaster and his staff must be felt by any local traders in these small towns. I realise that small post offices have been closed or reduced to nonofficial status over the years in rural areas. But now we are contemplating closing post offices in towns of a good size, and some which really provide a service for whole districts - not, as in the past, in outlying areas closely associated with towns. Some of the towns are reasonably isolated, and some of them are growing. I realise that this recommendation is based on a preliminary survey that was conducted in 1970, more than 3 years ago. For this reason and for the other reasons I have given tonight, and in view of the time lapse since the survey was made, I hope that no post office is changed in status before a thorough and detailed examination is made of all the relevant factors involved in its operation. In conclusion, I emphasise to the Postmaster-General that in many instances these post offices are the life blood of small towns, and those towns will lose a tremendous amount when and if their post offices are closed. 
I realise that time is going on. I just wish to join with all honourable members from this side of the House in wishing the Government well with its new concept and particularly with the Albury-Wodonga project. As I say, I have no intention of endeavouring to cover all the ground. There has been a very good debate from honourable members on both sides of the House. It is quite interesting to participate in a debate in which both sides of the House are basically in agreement. I trust that next week when there will be other legislation before the House we will have this unanimity of feeling in the chamber. Hopefully that will be the case. 
I would like to make the point, as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  did today, that really there is a four-pronged attack against the decentralisation. I would like to take up the last 2 points which he made and which I feel have been overlooked by the Government in all these Bills and other actions, taken by the Government. He mentioned blanket incentives for decentralisation. I will not dwell on those. But I feel that the general support for the initiatives shown by some of our States in supporting decentralisation in some of our minor or provincial towns may have been overlooked to a large extent. I mention this because there are many provincial or rural towns with populations between 5,000 to 20,000 people which are looking not for something spectacular, such as is happening in the Albury-Wodonga area or the other anticipated growth centres, but are looking for a small, gradual growth within their community. It may be a small, gradual industrial growth, perhaps just to take care of the unemployment situation which still exists in rural areas, and to take care of the children of the district who are growing up and who wish to stay in the district and seek employment. I know that the Government has ridiculed what it has described as the salt and pepper attitude of decentralisation of which it accused the previous Government. But I feel that with this Government there is too much emphasis on the cities. I would like to quote from an answer given by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in reply to a question asked in the House on 1 1 October. I will not read it all. The question was asked in regard to decentralisation. I will just read the end where the Minister says: 
We want decentralisation to be successful. The only way that we can achieve this is by determining special growth centres and by then using all the resources of Australian, State, local governments and the private sector to make these centres a success. That is why the Government has stated clearly that industries in selected growth centres agreed upon by the Australian Government and the State governments will receive special assistance and special attention in regard to tariff and other policies. 
I feel that the whole emphasis is on the cities. I know that a regional report has been prepared and hopefully other areas can look towards the Grants Commission. But it was in all seriousness that I asked the Minister a further question a couple of weeks ago. What prompted me to ask this question was that on 23 October 1973 there was a report in the West Australian' newspaper that the mayor of Bunbury,  Mr P.  J. Usher, had been told by the Federal Government that it was not considering exemptions to the regulations to restrict foreign investment. I bring this to the attention of the Minister and the House because a couple of days later I asked the Minister about the proposed Alwest refinery. Just let me quote that question. Actually, I addressed it to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  but he passed it on to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. The question was: 
The proposed all-west project is of tremendous importance to the south west of Western Australia. It will mean regional development, the development of the Bunbury port, increased power generation at Collie and increased employment opportunities throughout the region. As this project was planned during 1969-70 and has been held up awaiting the development of the infrastructure, particularly the port of Bunbury, will the Government reconsider its attitude on foreign capital investment in this instance, bearing in mind the true decentralised nature of the project? 
The Minister answered: 
As the honourable member would know, 4 studies have been carried out in Western Australia by the Cities Commission. Studies have been made of Sal.vado, north of Perth, and studies have also been made of 3 regional areas - Geraldton, Bunbury and Albany. The study is a continuing one and until such time as it is completed no decision will be made by the Government. Foreign investment in real estate in Australia is the joint responsibility of the Treasurer and myself and each case will be judged on its merits. 
It is not only the all-west project at Bunbury which is involved. There is also a tannery at Albany. There are other towns throughout the Commonwealth such as this. There are other small industries that could start and operate at no cost to the Government whatsoever. With more Government consideration, we could achieve in these small towns a limited amount of decentralisation with a thoughtful and balanced policy towards foreign investment. That is the only comment I wish to make. Again I wish the Government well with its whole project. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I understand that the proposed amendment has been circulated to honourable members. I trust that the Government will readily accept it. According to the second reading speech of the Minister, the amending legislation clarifies the intention of the Government. Without the proposed amendment there would be in the minds of many people a question mark as to just what power the Government would have under this Bill in relation to some of our industries, and particularly to the whaling industry in Australia. Obviously this legislation is concerned primarily with the whaling industry. 
It is well known that some Ministers and some members of the Opposition, probably because of a lack of knowledge and of a lack of the facts, are opposed to whaling under any circumstances, not only in Australia but anywhere in the world. Without the proposed amendment the legislation makes no reference to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora to which reference is made in the Minister's second reading speech. I believe that this is the whole thrust of this piece of legislation. 
It is conceivable, in view of the attitude held by certain Ministers of this Government and possibly by Ministers of a future government, that they could, by regulation under this legislation, close down the whaling industry of Australia. The proposed amendment seeks to emphasise and make clear just where the responsibility for which this legislation provides lies. Many industries, including the whaling industry, come under pressure. They are misunderstood and misrepresented, and this can quite easily build up a hostile public reaction. To those honourable members in the House tonight, to those members of the public who are listening to this debate and to those who send to this House petitions on whaling, I would like to say a word or two on behalf of the whaling industry and the conservationists on the International Whaling Commission who seek true control of the whaling stock throughout the world. 
Australia has been an active member of the International Whaling Commission since its inception. Its main purpose is stated in the convention to be: 
Safeguarding for future generations, the great natural resources represented by the whale stocks' by means of 'a system of international regulations for the whale fisheries to ensure proper an effective conservation of whale stocks - and thus make possible the orderly development of the whaling industry.' 
The members of the International Whaling Commission are advised by a committee of 25 scientists from 10 countries. This committee is chaired by a member of the United States delegation to the International Whaling Commission. These scientists are recognised not only as world authorities on assessing whale populations. They are also recognised as the leading marine biologists of the world and as the leading conservationists of the world. This committee made the following report to the International Whaling Commission in London in June 1973: 
Because the concept of individual species management is now operative, the Scientific Committee agreed that at the present time there is no biological requirement for the imposition of a blanket moratorium on all commercial whaling. The majority further considered that, for the same reason, there is at present no biological  justication  for such a blanket moratorium. The Committee has repeatedly pointed out to the Commission that effective management can only be achieved if such species, and, indeed such individual stock is managed and exploited separately in a way appropriate to its condition. Any blanket management, such as a global moratorium, would be in direct contradiction to this principle. 
In view of this very sound argument the United States proposal for a 10-year moratorium on commercial whaling to commence in 3 years did not obtain the required majority at the 1973 meeting of the International Whaling Commission. Accordingly the United States Commission has stated that the United States would abide by the decisions of the International Whaling Commission. 
The International Whaling Commission imposed a moratorium on the catching of white and grey whales in 1946 and this decision still applies. In 1955 a prohibition was placed on the killing of blue whales in the North Atlantic Ocean for 5 years. This was extended for a further 5 years in 1960 and in 1966 it was extended for another 5 years. At the same time waters covered by the prohibition were extended to include the North Pacific Ocean. This prohibition was extended progressively to 1967 when a total prohibition was imposed on the killing of blue whales and this prohibition is maintained by all member nations of the International Whaling Commission. 
From 1954 the killing of humpback whales has been prohibited in certain areas and these were progressively extended until a total prohibition on the catching of humpback whales was imposed in 1965. In addition to the total prohibition on the killing of white, grey, blue and humpback whales the International Whaling Commission has imposed quotas on each species of whales at present being exploited, and these quotas have been fixed below the maintainable yields of the stocks as advised to the Commission by its Scientific Committee. At the last meeting the International Whaling Commission reduced the quota of fin whales to be taken in the Antarctic and agreed that a moratorium on the catching of these species would be imposed in 3 years time. 
The Australian industry is based solely on sperm whales which are abundant in the Southern Hemisphere where the population is estimated to be over 300,000. Those countires which supported the global moratorium at the International Whaling Commission's meeting voted in favour of Soviet Russia, Japan, South Africa and Australia continuing to take the same number of sperm whales in the Southern Hemisphere as were taken last year. This action was taken on the advice of the Scientific Committee chaired, as I pointed out, by a member of the United States delegation. This quota is split up amongst the 4 nations on the same basis as in 1972. If Australia ceased whaling its quota would be split amongst the 3 remaining nations each of whom voted against the moratorium. The scientists agree that whilst the catching rate of sperm whales remains at present levels the present stocks will be conserved. The United Kingdom, which supports the moratorium, has banned trade in all whale products except those from sperm whales. 
On the local scene, the directors of the Albany Station have in the past co-operated fully in providing facilities 'for scientific research. In fact, recently the company agreed to match the Australian Government contri bution of Si 2,000 to finance an expedition in the Southern Indian Ocean to tag sperm whales. This work is being done in cooperation with the United States of America, the United Kingdom and South Africa. If Australia ceases whaling, these tags will not be recovered in the eastern section of the survey area and the investigation will prove ineffective. The United States of America and the United Kingdom which voted for the moratorium would not have financed the cruise if the tags were not to be recovered. 
Albany has the only land based whaling station in the Southern Hemisphere and the only whaling station in Australia. The Albany station directly supports over 100 families who received $700,000 in wages last year. Payments for services rendered by the town amounted to $380,000. Therefore honourable members can see that whaling is a most important industry to Albany. Albany is not a town that is going ahead as one would hope and expect today. The town's life blood would be taken away if it were to lose the whaling industry. Export earnings from whaling in 1971-72 were valued at $1,200,000. Sales of high protein stock food in Australia totalled 4,200 tons last year and by-products, might I add, were not used for pet food. We know just how important any type of protein is in the world today. I visualise that if for some reason the International Whaling Commission ceased to exist because of action by this Government or world governments we would have a set of circumstances that would react against the whaling stocks of the world rather than for them as anticipated by conservationists. I believe that if a global whaling moratorium were proclaimed the major active whaling nations would withdraw from the International Whaling Commission and continue whaling. Who on earth would stop them? International trade in whale products would not stop them. Big nations such as Russia and Japan could probably use all of the whale products that they could harvest themselves. 
It is also likely that if a moratorium were imposed on all whaling the observer scheme which the International Whaling Commission has really got off the ground in the last few years and is operating would break down. Australia and South Africa were the first countries to take up the challenge of allowing international observers to keep a very severe eye on their activities. Another effect of a moratorium would be that the International Whaling Commission scientists and members of its Scientific Committee would have no records of catch details. Stocks could not be assessed and the world would not know the condition of the stocks. Also, distant water fishing fleets would step up the mechanical harvesting of krill in the southern oceans for animal protein concentrate which could lead to a shortage of food for the increasing whale population. The mechanical harvesting of krill is engaged in by Russia on a large scale in the northern oceans of the world. This is one of the very live eventualities that could happen in the future. I believe that the only possible way to control whaling is to support fully the continuing existence of the International Whaling Commission, to support our own whaling industry and to ensure that active whaling countries do not withdraw from membership of the International Whaling Commission. There will be no control over whaling operations in the world without participation in and continuation of the International Whaling Commission. Without this there will be no true conservation, or conservation of any kind, of our whaling stocks. 
I am pleased that I have had this opportunity to say a few words on behalf of the Australian whaling industry and the International Whaling Commission. I would be very concerned to think that this legislation could be used by a Minister of any political persuasion in a manner hostile to the whaling industry. That is why I support the proposed amendment fully. I believe that it is designed, and I hope the Government accepts that it is designed, to eliminate any doubt from the legislation as it is presented to us, and that it will help to safeguard the species of fauna and flora of the world that have been agreed upon in the Convention. Who would not support this legislation? I believe that all of us are conservationists at heart. I would be quite prepared to make any sacrifice to ensure that the fauna and flora throughout the world are maintained for future generations and throughout the ages. I am prepared to second the foreshadowed amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Some 338 official post offices in Australia are to be reclassified to unofficial status, based on the 1970 survey. Before closure, will an additional survey be conducted? Will matters such as isolation and service be ,taken into consideration or are they to be closed or reclassified only on economic grounds? Does every district or post office need to present a case as to why its status should not be altered? 
The previous Government, to do the best possible, introduced many measures to assist the Australian fruit growing industry - equalisation, sales tax rebate for soft drink manufacture, and reconstruction. At the best of times the fruit industry generally is a finely balanced industry relying on exports, with all the hardships of that. We have skyrocketing freights today and indifferent overseas markets. Also we are relying on home consumption and in the past, as I have just said, we have been, relying on the sales tax exemption for soft drink manufacture. With the loss of this type of government assistance - sales tax exemption for soft drink manufacture - there is all the more reason why the rural reconstruction scheme must be made to work and made to work better than I believe it has worked up to date. 
Originally $4.6m was allocated to the fruitgrowing reconstruction scheme, and during 1972-73 only $400,000 was actually spent. According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  setting up the necessary administrative machinery caused a delay in getting the scheme under way. He indicated that most of the growers who could have taken immediate advantage of the scheme had already incurred spraying, pruning and fertilising expenses for the 1972-73 crops before the State authorities were able to accept applications. Certainly the administrative delays would have contributed to a lower number of applications for assistance than originally conceived. However, other factors have contributed to the situation, as pointed out very ably by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  Growers might not have been fully aware of the scheme and its possible application to them. The extent of this is difficult to ascertain without a detailed survey. Certainly it appears that there was a great deal of indecision among growers. This is shown by the fact that a large number of applications under the original scheme were not made until the last week before its expiry. 
Another possible explanation is that the assessments made by the State authorities of the financial difficulties of the applicants for assistance might have been too harsh. The total number of applications to 30 June 1973 amounted to 1,083, of which 192 or almost 18 per cent were rejected. Overall only 673 offers were made, and only 484 first offers were taken up. In an attempt to decide whether the assessments have been too harsh, information would be required on the financial situation of those growers who applied for assistance and the criteria followed by the authorities. However, it would appear that a greater number of applications would be forthcoming and a greater number would be accepted by the authorities if the means test or the other criteria applying were to be relaxed. It is possible that the Commonwealth Government could come to some agreement with the States on this matter if it is thought that an expanded scheme would be desirable. I suggest that an expanded scheme is desirable, for the reasons I have pointed out. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  expressed regret last night that this Bill does not go far enough. He pointed out that he believed that the first year was a trial. He said that the bugs should have been ironed out and that we should be looking forward, in the second year of the scheme, to a varying and expanded scheme. However, the Budget Estimates indicate that only $2m of the remaining $4. 2m will be spent under the scheme during 1973-74. This seems to indicate that the extended scheme will be considerably smaller than the scheme which was envisaged in 1972. 
The States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill will prevent growers who have already applied for assistance under the original scheme from withdrawing their applications, taking one more crop off their trees and re-applying for assistance under the extended scheme. It has been reasoned that the clause which makes this provision has been included to inhibit further indecision on the part of growers who are experiencing financial difficulty and because, if growers were to proscrastinate further, their financial problems would be aggravated. While it might be correct to suggest that further delay by certain growers in removing trees will worsen their financial situation, this clause could prove to be too harsh on those growers who are genuinely indecisive and as a result opt for withdrawing their applications in spite of this clause. More thought should be given to allowing some flexibility in the administration of this scheme, as was well pointed out by the honourable member for Murray. I will not enlarge further on that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What has been the cost to Australia of importing (a) oil, (b) natural gas and (c) refined petroleum products in each of the years 1963 to 1973 inclusive. 
What revenue has been gained by Australia from the export of (a) oil, (b) natural gas and (c) refined petroleum products in each of the same years. 
In rising to speak in this debate which concerns the wool situation, firstly I point out that I am pleased that the Government is carrying on the support to the wool industry in the most important areas of research, promotion - the marketing of the industry - and we support the Government's action. Looking back at the wool industry in Australia I think that all of us, no matter from which political party we come, realise the importance of the wool industry. Those in Australia who, in the past, have said that Australia has been carried on the sheep's back have been speaking the truth. The wool industry has been an important industry to Australia, and I believe that it will continue to be important in the future. 
The importance of the wool industry can be gauged by what has happened in the economic field in Australia over the last few years. When the rural industries, particularly the wool industry, turned bad a couple of years ago, although we had an excellent government at the time, we experienced an economic downturn that we had not experienced for a number of years. Because of the actions of the Australian Wool Corporation and because of the strong action which the former Federal Government took in supporting the Corporation, the wool industry has picked up today. I do not know whether we can relate this to the prosperity in Australia today, but I believe that it had a lot to do with the present position. Despite the present Federal Government, we find that once again we have a very prosperous Australia. 
To me it is very significant that the Federal Government is to continue to support the wool industry. This demonstrates just how important the wool industry is to the Commonwealth of Australia, because, let us face it, in the last 12 months the Federal Government has acted in a very adverse way to every other rural industry in Australia. This point was well and truly made by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and also by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  I will not go through the sad history of what the Federal Labor Government has done to rural industries in the last 12 months. The continuation of support of the wool industry at almost the same level as the previous Federal 
Government provided support is an indication to me that the present Federal Government regards the wool industry as a tremendously important industry. 
We know that there is to be increased participation by the farmer and grazier in the proposed scheme for the wool industry, and I believe that it is heartening to find that the industry unanimously said that it was willing to participate in additional expenditure in order to ensure the continuation of the scheme. 
Yes. I think it is the type of attitude that all rural industries strive for. A few years ago those engaged in rural industries did stand on their own 2 feet; they would much rather have direct control of their own industries. It is only over the last few years that the situation in Australia has completely changed. There has been a need in Australia to build up secondary industries, and protection, by way of tariffs, was given for this purpose. But we have also found that because of rising costs, fluctuating overseas prices and over-supply in the market a number of our primary industries, which are imperative to our export income earnings and which are the producers of the wealth of the nation, at certain times have had to be assisted in one way or another in order to maintain their stability and growth. One thing that governments have had to do and have done in order to keep the industries viable has been to provide a measure of support for them. As I have indicated, the wool industry is prepared to bear an additional burden which has not been required of it before. It is prepared to do so when it is enjoying a time of prosperity. At this stage of the game one cannot know what will happen to the world price of wool and, if there is a dramatic downturn in price and the 2.75 per cent tax visualised in this legislation does not provide for the levels of research and promotion necessary to carry out the programs, it would be fair enough for the Government to examine the situation again. This was adverted to by the honourable member for Corangamite, who led for the Opposition in this debate. 
During the last four years the wool industry has been through an adverse period. I shall not dwell on this aspect because all honourable members are aware of it. Even though the prices for wool, grain and meat have picked up, this is not an easy time for most rural producers. The prices enjoyed over the last 18 months have been of great value to the farmer and the country and have provided a tremendous incentive to the rural industries, but those prices have not prevailed sufficiently long. Farming is a long term operation. To visualise one season of good prices wiping out all rural debt and the backlog of troubles through which rural industries have passed is not on. One swallow certainly does not make a summer. One needs only to look at the amount of rural debt today to realise that rural industry has a long way to go to get its nose in front, which is the position in which we would like to see it. Many honourable members have enlarged on the present taxation system and the way the Federal Government's policies have reacted against rural industries, although the Government will not admit it. I believe that the wool industry has shown a great degree of responsibility in accepting the increased charges without qualms at this moment; but it has worries for the future. I would expect the Government to take this factor into consideration if there is a great downturn in wool prices. 
In the few moments I have in which to speak I wish to refer to the Government's removal of the superphosphate bounty. I wish to identify myself fully with those who spoke last Tuesday in the debate on the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition and to condemn the Government for its action. I believe that it will prove to be a disaster not only for the farmers but also for the national interest. An additional burden will be placed on the farmers and eventually it will be passed on to the community. The first downturn in prices for rural products will lead to a lessening of the use of superphosphate because it is the major, and perhaps the only, flexible item in a farmer's budget. The removal of the bounty will lead to a downturn in production, with all its implications. It is difficult for us to grasp the thought of the world food shortage and the famines that are occurring in some countries; but we all know the situation that is developing, especially in view of the dramatic rise in population that is being experienced all over the world. 
No one knows the situation better than the people of Western Australia. I refer not only to Western Australians who farm but also to those who think of their country and not in the narrow terms of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who thinks that Australia starts and finishes in suburbia. The Prime Minister has said a lot about the wealthier graziers - this also was mentioned quite often by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - in the debate the other day who can afford to pay the full price for superphosphate. The plain fact of the matter is that one-third of the superphosphate used in Australia is used on marginal land in Western Australia. Starve Western Australia of superphosphate and we will be back to where we once were as far as land usage is concerned 
First of all, I would like to mention that there appears on the notice paper question No. 729 which the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is most anxious that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  answer. The honourable member for Griffith has asked me to mention that matter briefly in the hope that the Minister later on tonight will have time to provide an answer to that question. I will be very brief in my remarks in order to accommodate the Minister. 
I wish to refute strongly the impression given by many of the media and other people in their reports that farmers were mainly responsible for the disturbance in Forrest Place, Perth, last Monday week on the occasion of a political meeting which was held by the Australian Labor Party. The Western Australia farming industry has been vilified unjustly in Perth, interstate and overseas because of reports which I believe were exaggerated and grossly misrepresented the situation. The fact that 6,000 farmers, in an unprecedented show of unity, met at Subiaco Oval in peaceful and orderly protest the same afternoon has been given no or scant regard by the daily Press, while the antics of a group of alleged farmers demonstrating in Forrest Place have been blazed in headlines across the nation. It appears that because some farmers identified themselves by carrying placards the Press and speakers alike presumed that all the trouble was coming from farmers. Apart from those carrying placards I would like to know how the Press identifies farmers in a crowded mass of 10,000 people. 
Many responsible farmers and non-farmers who were present and to whom I have spoken since are adamant that farmers, apart from not being the only ones creating a disturbance, were in fact less to blame than other groups and individuals in the crowd. From the number of farmers who later came to the Subiaco meeting I estimate that no more than 10 per cent or 15 per cent of people in the crowd in Forrest Place were farmers. I was at Forrest Place and perhaps was the first person to leave there and go to Subiaco Oval, so I saw the crowd at Forrest Place and then saw the crowd that arrived at Subiaco Oval from Forrest Place. The fact that no arrests were made and nobody was injured during the course of the meeting in Forrest Place indicates, too, that the extent of violence has been blown out of all proportion. When 10,000 people crowd together in a confined space there is certain to be some jostling and shoving. No farmer organisations were represented at Forrest Place, nor did they organise any farmer participation. 
I will come to him. However, I am well aware that there were farmers there who were noisy. I do not condone the throwing of objects or unruly behaviour. But I stand by the right of anyone to demonstrate and, especially in these particular circumstances to demonstrate very strongly. I believe that responsibility for the turn taken by the demonstration rests squarely with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and, in particular, the Leader of the House and Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  It is no thanks to them that the demonstration was not in fact a lot more ugly. In the Minister's own way, as only he can do it, as we know him in this House so well, he incited the crowd to violence. 
The Prime Minister set a mood for demonstration by his decision to snub farmers by refusing the requests for him to attend the Subiaco meeting which was arranged before the Forrest Place meeting was known about. He was first asked on 19 February to attend a mass meeting. No reply was received. A second request was made and when there was still no reply a third request was made for him or his representative to attend. The reply, a refusal, was received on Friday, 22 March, 3 days before the mass meeting. A representative was not sent. So while 6,000 farmers held their meeting at Subiaco the Prime Minister chose instead to address students at the university. If the Prime Minister had done the right thing by farmers and had gone to Subiaco I am certain he would have been given a fair hearing, and few, if any, farmers would have gone to Forrest Place. 
Since the announcement that the superphosphate bounty would be discontinued the Prime Minister - has said that farmers have never had it so good, that their incomes have trebled. He has apparently alleged that farmers sponge, or words to that effect, on the community. Such statements demonstrate that he is totally insensitive to or has little or no knowledge of the problems of the farming industry. He ignores the fact that farmers are carrying record debt loads, that many farmers are still trying to overcome the effects of the recent severe rural recession and that farm costs have risen an estimated 30 per cent in 3 years. He disregards the major effects which his Government's revaluation has had on the farming community. He ignores the fact that the real return to woolgrowers is little or no more today than it was 5 years ago. Why does he not visit some of the 3,000-odd developing farmers in Western Australia before he makes generalisations about farmers never having had it so good? Certainly, some farmers are doing much better but a lot are not. Certainly gross incomes have trebled but the farmers concerned have come up from the disastrous levels which applied during the recession. 
When farmers demonstrated in Forrest Place their mood was conditioned by a number of things. They included the Prime Minister's refusal to attend their mass meeting or to send a representative; his Government's array of anti-farmer measures; his series of insensitive statements about farmers and farming, and the emotive expressions used in Forrest Place by him and by the Minister for Services and Property. Is it any wonder that farmers became upset? 
In recent years Western Australian farmers have gone through a devastating drought and a harsh economic recession but their feelings have never been as aroused as they are now. Their feelings are now running so high because they feel they are being treated with arrogance and contempt by a prime minister and a government that neither cares about nor properly understands their problems. 
I can imagine bells ringing tonight in Western Australia, people throughout Western Australia, both in the cities and the country, enjoying a feeling of wellbeing as the news gradually seeps through that we in Australia are to have a double dissolution. We are certainly going to have a change of government. We are going to see a return to rational government. 
I want to get off my chest a few views I have formed on local government and the proposed referendum concerning local government. Local government is a most important level oi government. It is the so-called third tier of government. The financial problems of local government have been well documented. They relate mainly to a serious debt burden and an inability to increase revenue at a sufficient rate. The aggregate debt of local government bodies amounted to some 600m in 1960 but a decade later it totalled 81, 600m. Local government debt has increased at a faster rate than the State government and Federal government debt. Its legacy is an unevenly distributed but generally substantial interest burden. Over the last few years local government has been called upon to provide the amenities and services that the other 2 tiers of government were not willing to provide. With increasing inflation and these additional burdens local government finds itself in the invidious position in which it is today. 
The referendum proposals of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  particularly the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974, may appeal to local government to have the short term advantage of immediate financial assistance. For this short term relief and assistance I believe that local government will be sacrificing the federal system of government. There are many reasons why this form of assistance and this referendum should be opposed. The basic reason would be that the Australian Labor Party sees the proper structure of government in Australia as being a unitary system. The Prime Minister has, on many occasions, announced uncompromisingly that he believes in a unitary system. 
There seems to be some misunderstanding of what a unitary system is. So let this be made quite clear. A unitary system is one in which there is a single central government and there are no State governments. A unitary system would mean the abolition of the State governments. The Prime Minister and the Australian Labor Party propose to create some sort of provisional system of representation. Just what that would be has never been spelt out. It is the clear purpose of the Labor Party to have this single unit of government in Canberra. I resist this proposal because I believe that this would be a particularly bad form of government for Australia, which has a large land mass and which also has over that large land mass an increasing population. We are looking . forward to the population building up further over the years. 
The Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill is a proposal by the Government to by-pass the States and to contribute to the centralism in Australia which it so ardently wants. The way in which it will achieve centralism is not by the proper and correct course of conducting a constitutional referendum which would have as its purpose the elimination of the State governments or the sub- stantial diminution of their powers. The way in which it chooses to do it is very indirect - to cut back the powers of the State governments and to see that they decay. That is what the Government wants. There has been no hesitation on the part of the Prime Minister and presumably on the part of his Party to acknowledge that fact. 
In order to do that the Government has set out on a deliberate campaign to encourage local government throughout Australia to believe that the Labor Party has the interests of local government at heart. In fact, what the Labor Party has in mind is to deceive the local government bodies into believing that it will get a better deal in such circumstances. Of course, if Labor succeeds - it will be our purpose to prevent it from succeeding - the local government bodies will have no more role in Australia than the Labor Government sees as being the role of the State governments. There will be a concentration of power in Canberra. I am afraid that those in local government who believe that they will get a tremendous deal from the Federal Labor Government are in for a nasty shock. There is no doubt that if a money enticement is offered by the Commonwealth it is absolutely certain that there will be conditions that go with the grant of that money. Once this centralism is achieved we will find that the grants of money will have a whole series of conditions attached to them which will deprive local government of its own freedom of action and some bureaucrat in Canberra will decide the way in which local government ought to conduct its affairs. I do not believe that all the wisdom resides in Canberra. I certainly do not believe that one can assemble in Canberra bureaucrats who know what is good for local government. They do not understand the problems of the southwest of Western Australia in particular. 
So what is to be done? It is my view that it is reasonable to suggest that financial arrangements to assist the position of local government be made by the Commonwealth. It is not reasonable to propose fundamental constitutional amendments as being a necessary condition to do this. If the people are to be asked to exercise a choice it should be clearly established that the proposition be firm and fixed to alter the Constitution before it is necessary and desirable to do so. It is neither necessary nor desirable to alter the Constitution to assist local government. I recognise the compelling nature of the problems of local government and believe that financial arrangements must serve and strengthen the Constitution and not undermine it. Given the existence of the present State government machinery and expertise it would be a more rational use of resources to increase the flow of Commonwealth funds through those existing or even enlarged channels. 
I would not only seek to make local government not simply a passive recipient of increased finances but also to ensure that it was well equipped to make effective use of additional assistance. I recognise that even if Commonwealth borrowings on behalf of local government authorities were to result in very marginal benefits in interest rate repayments the problem of debt servicing would remain. I see strong local government administration as being one means of securing financial strength. There should be a meeting of the State Premiers with the Commonwealth Government to identify the scope and nature of local government's requirements and shortfalls. This conference could establish the magnitude of the assistance required over a 5-year period and the relative contribution of the State and Commonwealth governments. The objectives would be to establish a 5-year program on a continuing basis to equalise the facilities available in richer and poorer local government areas, that is, on a needs basis. There is no need to establish new regions through an expanded Grants Commission and to impose political changes for political purposes. Commonwealth assistance could be channelled through the State machinery on the basis of priorities determined by the State governments and their advisers in consultation with, for instance, the local government associations. 
I see the need for assistance to be on a grants basis in recognition of the serious indebtedness position. The Loan Council borrowing entitlement for local government authorities could be enlarged if required. In the meantime I believe that it is important for local government to be encouraged to take full advantage of the financial resources available to it. For as long as I remain in this Parliament as the representative of the electorate of Forrest I will fight for finance for local government without strings and without a cutting down of the rights or powers of the States, especially in the State of Western Australia. 
I endorse the remarks made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  earlier this evening. I support the amendment he moved. The amendment read: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'The Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to more easily suit the requirements and administrative needs of the States and local government authorities'. 
This amendment was moved to the Roads Grants Bill 1974 which is the subject of a cognate debate this evening. I wish to refer particularly to that Bill. The basic proposition the honourable member for Gippsland opposed in the Bill, which makes his amendment essential, was very well canvassed and explained by him. The basic principle in the Roads Grants Bill - that the Commonwealth will have the power of decision making at all levels - will quickly reduce State and local governments to the position of post offices. 
It is not only the principle that causes me concern but also the vicious attack that is being made on local governments and their economy. I believe there was a time when the general public, particularly members of local government and all those concerned with local government, believed the propaganda put out by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who was then the Leader of the Opposition, prior to the December 1972 election. Who could blame local government people for believing that a great new world would open up before them if they elected a Labor government? Do honourable members remember the speeches made and the Press releases issued by the honourable gentleman then? I will give honourable members just a sample of what was contained in the Prime Minister's policy speech in November 1972. He said: 
We will give local government full access to the -Loan Council and Grants Commission - not only because the burdens borne by taxpayers as ratepayers must be reduced, but because the inequalities between regions must be attacked by the national government acting with and through local government. Rates are Australia's fastest growing form of taxation. Only the national government has the resources to retard the growth of this burden on Australian home-owners. 
In the 'Daily Telegraph* of 17 November 1972, in referring to local government, the Prime Minister was reported to have said: 
Conclude a new. financial agreement to raise local government to a status of an equal partner with the Commonwealth and the States and to give local government adequate access to national funds. 
Who could blame local government people and all those associated with local government for imagining that if they elected  Mr Whitlam  to be Prime Minister of Australia new days would dawn in local government understanding? That is what the whole deception, I believe, is about. 
How many disappointments has the electorate at large suffered in the last 17 months? I will not try to enumerate them all, but the electorate has suffered. I wish to emphasise the disappointment and disillusion, particularly of local government. Lots of people perhaps saw through, even then, the extravagant promises of the then Leader of the Opposition and rejected or were very wary of the comforting path he suggested. But many local government leaders believed in the Prime Minister and I venture to say that none believed then that in 2 years time they would be in a worse situation than they were in then. The situation they are in today, financially, is far worse than that of 2 years ago. When the report on roads was tabled in November 1973 it became clear that local government over the next 5 years was not going to receive as much assistance from the Federal Government as it had received in the past, particularly in my own State of Western Australia. Since then, all types of protests and representations have been made to the Government, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and members of the Government. Now we have these Bills before us and we find that those representations have been to no avail. In fact, Western Australia will be marginally worse off than the report suggested or recommended. That report did recommend that Western Australia should receive $156m during the next 3 years. The present proposal is that the State shall receive $150m, a drop of some 4 per cent. 
Let me compare the position of Western Australia, and in particular local government, this year with the situation that prevailed last year. The total of the proposed grants for this year is $49.6m, compared with total grants last year of $48.03m. This is an overall increase, including the provisions of the national roads legislation, of 2 per cent which, of course, with the current rate of inflation means that the State will either have to do about 10 per cent less in road works than it did last year or to impose savage increases in rates, motor vehicle licences, etc., to find the extra money. 
I come next to the very grassroots of our governmental system - local government. The moneys available through the Road Grants Bill for urban arterial, urban local, rural arterial and development, rural local and minor improvements total $38.5m, compared with $41. 23m in 1973-74, last financial year. In this allocation, the biggest drop between 1973-74 and 1974-75 is in respect of rural roads. The allocation drops from $ 15.59m to $9.2m. It may be argued by the Australian Government that the Government of Western Australia is in a position to assist local governments more because of the Australian Government's largesse through the national roads legislation. But this is surely a fallacy. As I have pointed out, the overall grants to Western Australia for this financial year are practically the same as for last financial year, and no provision has been made for inflation - that evil force perpetuated by the Australian Government. The Australian Government is the greatest reaper - the harvester - of inflation. The State governments certainly are not. 
A vast new load will fall on the shoulders of an already over-burdened section of the community. The problems of local government were well explained by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  on Tuesday night last. They include rising debts, staggering increases in interest rates, up now to 9.85 per cent per annum. At the same time, local government is being called upon to perform ever increasing duties. Now local government will have to face the task of raising a massive amount of additional revenue. I again remind the Government of the hopes and aspirations of local government generated by the Prime Minister and others before the 1972 election. I cannot emphasise this aspect enough because I believe that at the moment the Government is not honouring its responsibility. 
In 1972, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in an address on a subject of national importance delivered at the New South Wales Local Government Association conference, referred to a remark which had been made by the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in a speech delivered at the same conference a couple of days earlier. I am not taking these words out of context.  Mr Whitlam  was answering part of what  Mr McMahon  had said.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The Prime Minister chose to interpret my attitude as advocating centralism and concentration of power. In fact my proposals are precisely the reverse. I believe there is a real and pressing case for decentralisation of authority and that local governments will best perform many governmental functions in such critical areas as welfare, culture and the environment. The challenge which we face now is to make arrangements to balance public functions at each of our 3 levels of government with the financial resources required to discharge them effectively. 
I ask you, Sir: Where in this Bill is the relief for local government? Where is the increase in status? Where is the. great new deal that local government was to receive? Local government in Western Australia is looking straight down the barrel of having either to curtail road works in local areas or to increase massively rates, taxes and licensing fees. 
I oppose this Bill not only on the principle that it will lead to centralism, as pointed out by the mover of the amendment. This is directly contrary to what  Mr Whitlam  said at the conference to which I have just referred. This legislation will lead to a decimation of decision-making by people in local government. I oppose it also on the grounds that Western Australia in particular is not getting a fair share of the cake and that local government will be further eroded and damaged by this Bill. I urge the Government in its consideration of our amendment to reconsider also the financial position of local government. I urge the Government further to let local government know what can be expected from the Grants Commission in the coming year. Even if this is to be nothing, local government is entitled to know so that it can get on with its budgeting and with its job as best it can. 
As soon as the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads was released to the public in November 1973 there was, as we all remember, a tremendous outcry from local government. As I said earlier, representations were made to all sections of the Government. These representations were made factually. They were made in a clear and concise manner which indicated to the Government exactly what position local government would be in if the Government implemented the recommen dations contained in the report of the Bureau of Roads. The months have gone by since then. This legislation, I believe, should have been introduced at the first sitting of the Parliament this year to allow the different authorities and the States the time to organise their programs. I deeply regret that local government today is not protesting so much about the allocation of funds. This is not to say that local government accepts the allocations. But local government has protested for so long and so often without any response that now it has reached the positions of desperately wanting to know what money or allocations it will receive from the Federal Government. 
I wish to quote from a letter sent by the Secretary of the Local Governments Association of Western Australia to the Prime Minister. It was written on 19 June 1973. The Secretary explains that he had written 3 weeks earlier to the Prime. Minister. An answer had been received from the Prime Minister's Private Secretary on 6 July. The Secretary of the Local Governments Association of Western Australia goes on to say:  ... the Press reports, statements by the honourable Premier of the State, indicate that the grants to Western Australia will not only not be increased but that the grants are to be reduced by one-sixth. However, there does not appear to have been any definite public statement by you on this issue. If the grants are to be further reduced, it would certainly have a serious effect on employment in this State and I trust that now the Government has had the time to settle down after the elections the matter can be reconsidered. However, as all councils are now preparing their budgets for this year commencing on July 1st they would like to know with some certainty what grants are likely to come to this State so that they can estimate the grants to be given to them by the State. 
If you could advise me with reasonable certainty whether the advice be the good news that the grants are not to be reduced or the bad news that they will be cut, this would enable me to advise all councils immediately so that their rating for next year may be based on authentic information as to the likely level of grants. 
He concludes the letter: 
I am sorry to seem inopportune in seeking your advice, but I assure you that this is a matter of the gravest concern to all our councils. 
I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  why should this gentleman - an esteemed gentleman, a leader of local government in Western Australia - have to be sorry for approaching the Prime Minister? Why should he feel that he cannot approach the Prime Minister on an issue such as this which is of vital concern to his organisation?. 
Could it be that these people are being intimidated by the power of the pursestrings held by Canberra already? How is it that their programming can be so put out? How is it that they do not know whether to curtail their works, and by how much they have to raise their rates when their financial year has already started? In fact, it started on 1 July. I have had letters from numerous shire councils in my area and I know that every shire council in my area is suffering from the same problem. A typical letter is the one I have received from the Collie Shire Council, which was brief but pertinent. It stated: 
Dear  Mr Drummond, 
Will you please make inquiries and let me know as soon as possible what moneys are likely to be made available by the Federal Government to the Shire of Collie either through the Grants Commission or Commonwealth Aid Roads or similar funds. As soon as my council has some idea of what moneys it is likely to get then it will know what to do so far as its work force is concerned. The position is very serious. 
Yours sincerely, P. McNab Shire Clerk 
The Council wants to know what to do with its work force. I am very much afraid that what it has in mind is laying men off because of the Federal Government's attitude. I . sincerely trust that the Government re-drafts the Bill along the lines suggested to it by us. I trust that at the same time, while we cannot make an amendment to the fact, that the Government reconsiders the financial position of local government authorities throughout Australia and particularly in Western Australia. One must remember that Western Australia is a vast State - nearly one-third of the continent of Australia.. It is still a developing State. Not only does it appear in this legislation that its allocation will be reduced, but it also appears that Western Australia has lost the benefit of the supplementary grants which was a fair and reasonable benefit and amounted last year to some $6. 8m. It was fair and reasonable because of the vastness of the State and the development still going on within the State. 
One must appreciate also that the base amount that was raised in Western Australia last year was $ 11.279m. The quota for Western Australia under this Bill is $23. 8m. This is a staggering increase for the State to bear, and there is no way that the Commonwealth Government can claim that the States should easily make up the leeway, as I explained earlier. The Commonwealth Government is the great reaper of taxation in Australia, not the State governments. The Western Australian Government is increasing practically all of its charges in an endeavour to carry on its normal duties now. Finding another $12m for roads is a burden which I do not believe Western Australia should have to suffer. I believe the State will find it extremely difficult to find that amount. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland and endorse the remarks he made during the course of his speech. I urge the Government to give realistic support to our thoughts and also to local government. 
-The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised the issue of whether our major trading nations have anything to do with the inflation rate in Australia. Of course I will concede that, to a minor degree, they have something to do with our inflation rate. But to say that this Budget is framed just as a social instrument, not as an economic instrument, and has nothing to do with the economy and to blame that statement on the fact that our trading partners have a heavy inflation rate seems very illogical to me. Do Government supporters not concede that many of the inflationary problems in most industrial trading nations are caused because they do not have resources such as Australia has? In Germany the inflation rate is 10 per cent- far less than Australia's inflation rate- but 4 per cent of that is directly attributed to the price it must pay for oil. 
Would they not agree that it is our internal inflation rate which is affecting the price of our minerals, foodstuffs and fibres that we export? I will not accept the type of argument advanced by Government supporters. They cannot abdicate their economic responsibilities for this Budget. To merely say it is a social instrument is quite ludicrous. I believe this is an historic Budget because it will be the death knell of our private sector. One should not be surprised at this possibility because the Labor Party is a socialist party which believes in socialism and in the State rather than the individual, so why should it not set about its legitimate business of destroying the private sector? In his Budget speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
Let us examine that statement. The private sector is having a downturn because of the policies pursued by this Government. While the Government may have good reasons to cut down the tall poppies- the people who are exploiting the community and taking excessive profits out of the system- its method of accomplishing this happens to act against the small man, the little man, the man for whom the Government is supposedly the champion. In its endeavour to bring to heel the small percentage of wealthy people throughout the community the Government is doing great damage to the little man, whether he be a farmer, a small businessman or a private company. It is also doing damage to those who rely on these people for their livelihood. If it does realise the implications of this Budget with its capital gains tax, property tax and its lack of support for export industries, we must recognise that it does wish to destroy the private sector. It is interesting to quote here from a book entitled 'The Quiet Revolution ' written by  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, in 1972. He wrote: 
Revolution in an advanced capitalist country can become a possibility only if there is a serious economic crisis. 
The Budget makes no pretension of combating inflation. The increase in Government spending is almost frightening, yet one realises, of course, that it has to increase its spending to keep up with the inflation rate that it has itself promoted. When we criticise Government spending, members opposite immediately ask: 'Where would you cut your expenditure if you were in government?' The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  eloquently answered this vexatious question. It is hardly our responsibility but during the election campaign in May we proposed a $600m tax cut. However because of price and wage escalations since then that amount may have been much greater had we been in a position to bring down this Budget. It is not our responsibility but I would be prepared, as an individual, to suggest and be responsible for a cut right across the board- in expenditure on health, education, welfare, culture and urban and regional development. I believe that with the Government spending at the rate it is currently spending we are endeavouring to live beyond our means. I appreciate that we all want to see facilities and benefits maximised to the greatest extent but we are living beyond our means. 
When the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  spoke earlier this evening I took his point that at this moment we are living in different times and no matter if the Government decided now to ease restrictions, to give the private sector more of the liquidity it needs and to adopt the measures that we have suggested there would be a time lag before those measures were effective. The honourable member for Mackellar argued that right now the Government perhaps has to keep up with its spending program to cushion the effects of the unemployment we will see in Australia in the next few months. What is proposed in the Budget for social welfare, urban and regional development, culture and recreation are, in the main, worth while and they bring little criticism from me other than in the broad. I believe we are trying to accomplish too much too quickly and we will endanger the goose that has inherently laid the golden egg- the private sector. 
Much has been said about the receipts side of the Budget by Opposition members so my comments will be brief. Despite the huge increase in revenue to be gained from personal taxation the Government has seen fit to increase the overall receipts by the use of various methods. The surcharge on property income was debated thoroughly in this House on Tuesday morning last, 1 October. I agree completely with the Opposition spokesmen who at that time said that this tax should be completely withdrawn. It is a tax that in endeavouring to get at a few of the wealthy in our society drags everyone into the net. Perhaps the Government will amend this proposal. However I should like to read from one of the many letters that I have received concerning this tax. I do not know whether the people who have written to me will fall into the tax bracket that will enable them to escape from this net but I believe many will be on the borderline, even if this tax is altered, and will be hit hard. The letter reads: 
Dear  Mr Drummond, 
I wish to protest about the 10 per cent surcharge on investments. I earned the money, I have invested by hard work. Cooking for shearers, rearing chickens and such like. The Federal Government seems to hate people who work hard and save for their retirement. 
The letter was signed by a  Mrs Burgess  of Cranbrook. My heart feels for her. It is my belief that these small people in our society who have worked hard and saved should not be hurt. The whole concept of this tax should be thrown out the door. 
I turn now to consideration of the proposed capital gains tax. The horror of this tax is that it does not seem to have any regard for the rate of inflation. We will not know what is involved until the legislation and regulations are worked out some time next March. Until then we will be operating in the dark. Inflation will continue. People with assets who are liable to pay this capital gains tax will, in fact, pay tax on an inflated capital. The Government concedes that inflation will run at a rate of 20 or 22 per cent this year. This must be reflected in the value of properties and assets unless there is a general collapse of our whole farming and private sector system. 
It is interesting to carry out a small exercise to illustrate what effect the rate of inflation has over a period, say, of 20 years. Let us take a farm property with a value of $100,000. In 20 years time, at an inflation rate of 10 per cent per annum, the value of that farm property will have risen to $672,752. Let us assume that the owner of that property dies after that 20 years. After the initial value of $100,000 is subtracted, the estate would be up, in approximate figures, for capital gains tax of $189,000, the maximum rate, on the balance of $572,752, leaving a total of $483,000. Probate duty on that would amount to $92,000. The death duty applicable in New South Wales would be $130,000. This is a total of $223,000 which would leave, after taxes, an estate of $260,000. The rate of taxation applied would be 61.3 per cent. If this type of calculation is made using a 22 per cent inflation rate, we find that after 5 years, capital gains, death duties, and Federal probate duty would amount to 53 per cent of the value of the property. There can be no doubt as to what effect a tax bill such as that would have on rural properties or any properties. I could not imagine any farmer's heirs being able to carry on with the property. 
Who will buy these farms? One can quickly see this developing into either a peasant community with the farms being of no value or one of corporate farming which, I would have thought, would be against the wishes of this Labor Government. But, then, perhaps it would not be corporate farming so much as State farming with the State having to take over the land because it would be impossible for free enterprise or individuals to carry on with the farming. One must remember also that we are going through a rural recession. In fact, we are going through a recession in all areas, the likes of which we have not experienced for many, many years. The value of land and other assets including shares would be at its lowest ebb for a considerable time. 
-Since the great depression, in fact. Yet sale day is to be 17 October 1974, right in the middle of this lowest period. Surely assets, whether they be in shares or property, can hardly do anything else but escalate in value from now on. The Government of the day will be the great reaper. 
I wish to turn very briefly to the rural scene. There have been numerous speeches made in this House since the Budget was presented. There have been many speeches made, and made very well, by members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party on this side of the House concerning the rural scene. Those honourable members have explained time and time again to the Government not only just what effect this Government's policies are having on the rural community but also the effect of the world wide gluts and uncertain monetary conditions on some sections of the rural industries. This Government must shortly become aware that there is a crisis developing in large sections of our rural community. 
I hasten to congratulate the Government for stepping into the breach in the wool industry and providing that industry with a floor price when it was facing a very uncertain period. I would like to give the House just one small instance of what I am referring to. In a fertile, reasonably newly developed area in my electorate- it is a high rainfall area which runs down the west coast of Western Australia and is basically concerned with growing beef cattle- a few weeks ago, one of my State colleagues had an informal meeting with the local bank managers, the local stock firm men, and two or three of the district's leading farmers. They sat around the table. After their round table informal meeting, they came to the awesome conclusion that if the monetary situation did not change and if the market situation did not change- and it would not appear that either of those will change in the foreseeable future- 70 per cent of the farmers in their area would go bankrupt before Christmas. That was the conclusion drawn in good faith by these people. That is the concern uppermost in their minds in their neck of the rural area. 
If anywhere near this type of calamity occurs, who is going to buy the farms? Who will take them over? What will happen to production in Australia? Its very life blood still comes from rural areas. What will happen to the very prosperity of our country? The sooner the Federal Government recognises that there is a dangerous situation on our hands, the better. I believe that it should recognise that it is a temporary situation and that the wheel of fortune will turn, although I would not know how long it would take to do so in the beef industry. Be it 12 months, 18 months or 2 years, I have no doubt that the rest of the world will once again be eagerly seeking beef and protein from Australia and the other countries which can produce it. Those countries seeking beef will be able to pay for it. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out to the United Nations in the course of his current trip, we have a responsibility to produce. 
At the moment, these farmers basically need finance to get them through this difficult time. I know of some instances of farmers being forced to sell their stock to meet their commitments. Others are finding it impossible to borrow money to pay to have their sheep shorn. I cannot remember a time when the farmer could not get finance to harvest his wool clip when he is so close to getting his return and paying back the money that the financier has lent him. That is how bad the liquidity situation is. It is no consolation to the rural community to realise that the rest of the private sector is so deeply in trouble. I make the plea to the Government to recognise that the private sector is facing a liquidity situation which is now forcing people in different spheres of that sector- not only the small farmerto sell up their businesses at whatever price they can get and to try to make a new life wherever they can. 
Australia needs free enterprise. Free enterprise has given us our prosperity, provided 75 per cent of the jobs in the country and has produced the goods and services that the public seems to want. It has created community wealth. It is from the free enterprise system that the Government obtains the tax revenue to pay for the very desirable social welfare programs that we all support. The present Government obviously recognises the need of labour and that there must be rewards for labour. But it does not seem to recognise that free enterprise and business generally also require rewards and that there must be rewards for free enterprise and saving, just as there must be for effort. 
-Firstly I would like to comment on the speech made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  last night. He said very little in this speech but he did make a reference in one very rousing part of it to what the Government was doing in regard to soil conservation. This subject took up a good part of his speech and was one of his main planks. He said: 
The situation with which we are confronted is that we have a new government that has a proper, rational, national approach to agriculture. Nowhere is this better illustrated in this Budget than in the approach to soil conservation. 
After carefully looking through the Budget Papers I found the following comment on soil conservation: 
Legislation to be introduced in the Budget Session will provide for an interim program of financial assistance to the States for soil conservation programs. The program will extend over a two-year period with grants totalling $2.5m being made available to the States, of which $0.5m will be made available in 1974-75. 
That is the sum total of the great new assistance which will be given for soil conservation, and that was the subject of most of the honourable member's speech. 
As has been pointed out repeatedly to the Government by members of the Opposition and by rural industry leaders, the rural areas of Australia are facing a recession the like of which we have not seen in this land since the depression of 1930-3 1. Generally the cost of production this year has risen by 30 per cent in all rural industries. Our major industries of meat and wool are facing a grim export situation. Grain is holding up but seasonal conditions may substantially reduce our crop. The dairy industry is suffering with the beef industry. Exporters of fruit, particularly apples, are facing a situation of rising costs, rising freight rates and tough market conditions. The outlook for many people involved in rural areas and those who depend on their prosperity for their own prosperity is grim. 
The Government basically has shown its hostility to the rural people. There is a long and sorry list of actions that this Government has taken in this Budget and the 1973 Budget that have adversely affected rural people. I do not want to go through all of these actions. We have heard them and know them so well. We know of the loss of taxation deductions, the investment allowance and so on. The Government says that it is making rural production a nationally viable industry. But this reminds me of the story of the doctor saying to the cripple: 'I will make you walk', and then kicking his crutches away. 
The Government has argued that the rural areas were being feather-bedded and that they were taking too much out of the system in comparison with what they were putting in. I do not think that anyone on the Government benches has argued that Australia does not need the export earnings brought about by the rural areas, but it would not surprise me if Government supporters did advance that argument. There is no likelihood of mining or manufacturing industries in the short term taking up the slack if the export of rural products declines or disappears from the scene. The Government repeatedly has said that it would assist those rural industries which through no fault of their own fell on hard times. I want to quote from a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Australian Farmers' Federation on Tuesday, 23 October 1973. This speech was made when times were reasonable. He said: 
If the farming community is again exposed to economic hardships we will be prepared to play our part in helping individuals to make the best and most rational choices and, if necessary, cushion them against economic adversity. We have always voted for such policies when we were in opposition; we will adopt them if necessary now that we form the Government. 
The Government has taken a stand on the wool industry, for which I commend it. The wool industry would have been in extreme difficulties without a firm floor price in the market. But the time has come now for urgent action to be taken to assist the beef industry. This industry is in a difficult position which certainly will not get any easier by the Government doing nothing. I realise that the export situation is desperate in the short term but one can only assume that in the long term the export situation will be encouraged. So what can be done to see that our beef producers are still successfully raising beef when conditions improve? 
The beef industry has slumped to its present position through no fault of its own. In fact 18 months ago the industry was encouraged to expand production by agricultural economists, governments and anyone who thought that they knew anything about the world supply of protein and were in a position to expound it. Now, because of political decisions made in countries such as Japan, the United States of America and the European Economic Community countries, we have a glut situation in the countries which are and have been our traditional markets. The cost to these countries to maintain and build up their own beef herds has been astronomical. It has cost them many billions of dollars to support their agricultural industries. We have to compete on world markets against this support. I have no doubt that in the long term these countries will return to economic sanity as far as their agricultural products are concerned and that the markets for beef and other commodities will return to Australia. 
But what is to be done in the meantime? The greatest problem facing farmers is one of liquidity. We are not living today in normal times. Different sections of rural industries have weathered greater storms in the past. But in those times liquidity was reasonably easy to maintain. Normal monetary conditions as we have known them do not exist in the tight money situation of today. There just is not the finance available to bridge this situation. An amount of $50m is urgently needed to allow the majority of producers to survive. I certainly would not imagine that this amount of money would be made available by way of grant. Rather it would be made available in the form of a loan. If this is the case I hope that the loan will be made at the lowest interest rate possible. Such a loan could be organised through the Commonwealth Development Bank or through rural reconstruction. The industry will have the ability to repay its borrowings when the wheel turns, as it surely will. 
Taxes and levies imposed by the Federal Government on the beef industry for different schemes could be lifted for the short term or until such time as the industry returns to prosperity. Meat export charges which in the current year are estimated to be some $26,300,000 are a great burden on the industry. There must be continual dialogue between the beef industry leaders and the Government. There should be regular meetings between people at the grass roots level and the Executive. Last week when speaking during the Budget debate I mentioned, in one of my districts in which fattening cattle is a major industry, there had been a meeting of local bankers, stock firm agents and three or four of the leading farmers. The devastating conclusion was that if the market did not improve- in fact it has slipped significantly since then- and if credit remained tight, then 70 per cent of farmers would go out of business by Christmas time. 
Is the Government really aware of this? Is the Government prepared to see this happen? Does the Government realise that groups of desperate people who this time last year were prosperous are meeting right now in rural areas throughout Australia formulating desperate policies to bring their plight to the Government's attention? Measures such as not paying shire rates, not paying taxes, boycotting sales, picketing sales and generally disrupting the community are high on their list. They are losing their livelihood after years of struggle and work. Why would they not be bitter? Any Government Minister or member on the Government side who would care to visit the country areas and explain to the people the Government's policies would be more than welcome. He may be in for a rather lively time, but I , believe there is an obligation on Ministers and Government supporters to visit country areas and understand what is happening throughout rural Australia. The Government must have dialogue with these people and the industry and be prepared to stand by the industry for the nation to reap the benefits in the not too distant future. Every effort should be made to develop new markets. The Australian Meat Board, private enterprise and marketing organisations should be encouraged. Export incentives should be given to assist them in finding new markets. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. As some time has now elapsed since the cattle industry's troubles became apparent, can the Minister say whether the Government is now in a position to explain any measures it intends to take to see that this major Australian industry survives for the undoubted period of prosperity that lies ahead? 
-As we know, the purpose of the Bills is to continue the levy to provide finance for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for scientific research in connection with the processing of beef, mutton and lamb. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  ably pointed out the research carried out by the CSIRO which is financed by these levies. He mentioned the projects that the Organisation has in hand at the moment and he also mentioned that perhaps it could do a lot more work. It is imperative that it turn its attention to processing meat that can be incorporated in our food aid program. I was heartened by the comments of the honourable member for Paterson that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  have been discussing this matter recently. 
I know that the Government has been very concerned over the last few months about the position of the beef industry. Since last April we have been in an unprecedented slide and today the industry is in dire straits. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Agriculture in answers to questions and in speeches that they have made recently have demonstrated their concern for the industry. Naturally the Minister for Northern Development is primarily interested in the top end of the country, but both he and the Minister for Agriculture have demonstrated their interest mainly in the northern part of Australia where beef is primarily produced for export. I suggest to them that the southern States of Australia are today in just as much trouble. In fact, I believe the northern parts of Australia have completed a reasonably successful killing season but are naturally looking forward with some trepidation to the coming killing season. But at the moment cattle men in the southern States are in the process of selling their cattle. The cattle have to be taken off the properties. As we know, prices are going down week by week. We thought a month ago that they must have hit bottom but today the price that breeders are getting for their stock is an absolute tragedy. This also applies to the people who are in the quite legitimate business of fattening stock which were bought last year at very high prices. Today they are facing losses of over 50 per cent of what they paid for their stock. Stock that they bought for, say, $150 a head, is being sold by them for $50. 
But let us come back to the point about processing beef and the CSIRO 's role in this. I have no doubt that if something could be arranged quickly between the Government and the CSIRO to process meat into dehydrated form or into canned form such meat could be incorporated in our food aid program. Looking back over all rural industries, but in particular the beef industry, we see that we have gone through a period of great troughs and peaks. While we would like to think that this will change in the future and that maybe by our marketing expertise and more long term government to government agreements or long term meat agreements with other countries we will be able to take the peaks out, personally I think that from the way the world is going at the moment it would appear that the peaks and troughs will always be in front of us. They may even become more regular. This is a disappointing future to look forward to, so it is important to be able to produce meat in a processed form that can be used for different markets and can be used for aid. 
The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory has said many times that the Government is giving the beef industry earnest consideration and that it realises the crisis in which the industry is. I trust that the Minister will be able to make sure that his colleagues see the reasons behind the need to do something immediately. I believe that taxes and levies that are placed on the meat industry could be lifted until the industry has returned to a period of prosperity. The estimates of receipts and expenditure for the Department of Agriculture show that the rural industries contributed $260,672,000 to receipts. This is vastly greater than the payments by the Government to the rural industries which in fact total $2 10,879,000, not including the $4m subsidy contained in the Tractor Bounty Act, the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy of $13m and a phosphate fertiliser bounty. My point is that the Government is not losing by subsidising rural industries. The rural industries very much pay their own way. When one takes into consideration their earning capacities overseas, they are essential to the country. As the honourable member for Paterson pointed out, the beef industry in particular is essential to the country. I have already spoken on this matter in the Appropriation Bill, but I repeat that I believe that we are at a period when the Government must act in haste. It has had time and it has had warning; it must press forward with the schemes, which by now it surely has and help this industry through this very trying period. 
-My grievance is on behalf of a group of people who wrote to me quite recently. I would like to begin my remarks by quoting a letter sent to me by the Southern Bulldozing and Earthmoving Contractors Association in Albany. The letter states: 
Dear  Sir, 
You are aware of the financial difficulties and hardship suffered by most members of our Contractors Association caused by the rising costs that affect everyone but principally caused by a complete lack of work. 
Ninety per cent of our work is for farmers and in the present climate, farmers will not spend money for our work or anywhere else. 
Would you please submit to the Federal Government on our behalf, a proposal to:- 
Restore taxation incentives to primary producers for:- 
Water conservation and storage so necessary in one of the driest continents on earth- a move that will not only benefit the farmer and contractor concerned but the whole Nation for decades to come. 
Soil erosion control. It is so obvious to even the city dwellers what can happen to good land if control steps are not taken soon enough. 
Clearing. Hundreds of thousands of acres of land have been thrown open for selection in Western Australia in recent years. Many new land farmers who have battled for years to become viable have not yet finished their clearing programs. These pioneers went onto this virgin land in good faith and after the disastrous 69-70 years were just seeing daylight ahead, when not only clearing tax benefits were removed but also concessions for the countryman in the way of water conservation and soil erosion, super, so necessary on this infertile new land, fuel differentials, etc, etc. Two revaluations seriously affected his produce markets and his costs like everyone else's are sky rocketing except that he cannot pass it on. 
We, of course, are not farmers but restoration of these concessions to him will help us. 
We depend on him for our  livlihood  as do many others in this part of Australia and indeed in the Nation itself, as is reflected in the current balance of payments situation. 
Further to these proposals we remind the Government of its promise that industries adversely affected by its policies can apply for assistance. 
We feel that, in general, our members have not been irresponsible in the way that they have geared up to the needs of this developing area and in fact, very fresh in our minds are the difficulties of '69 and '70. 
The average contractor here has H.P. commitments of $500-55,000 per month. How can we service these repayments when there is no work. 
We ask for consideration to be given to providing low interest bridging finance to viable contractors and help to get out for those that are not. 
If our first proposal re restoration of rural tax concessions is put into effect, the second one would of course be unnecessary. 
Those remarks refer to the bridging finance. The letter continues: 
We are hard-working inventive people and all we need to survive is work, not handouts. 
We are anxiously awaiting action in regard to this letter. 
Yours faithfully, 
This matter has been raised many times in this Parliament, but it must be brought up again and again, until the Labor Government is persuaded that tax incentives for food and fibre production and producers are restored. A group of people such as these surely indicates to the Government the damage that has been done to the whole community, not only to the farmers, since the 1973 Budget eliminated these tax incentives. Without these incentives, farmers and graziers cannot conserve water as it should be conserved. They cannot carry out necessary soil conservation, they cannot carry out necessary fodder conservation and they cannot carry out development work which is essential to increase Australia's production, so that we are better able to supply the world with food and fibre. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recognised this fact again this morning. He spoke of it at the United Nations. He said that Australia has an obligation not only to meet its contractual commitments, but also as a nation with a high standard of living, to assist people who are less fortunate than ourselves. The Prime Minister said this morning that the Government was taking action to see that our grain harvest is maximised. I say again that the restoration of tax incentives would make the greatest contribution of any of the measures that could be taken to increase production. The Labor Government has recently recognised the fact that the private sector is vital to the wealth and prosperity of all Australians. Australia in its short history has accomplished so much. This has been done by private endeavour, personal initiative, hard work, sweat and tears. Now, under this Government, there have been many changes. Unfortunately these acrosstheboard changes have taken away personal initiative. The endeavour to improve oneself by hard work, sweat and tears is denied. A simple example would be that of a humble shearer today. A good shearer perhaps shearing 180 sheep today works for the Government 2 2  days out of 5 days. In effect, that is the amount he pays in tax. Where is the incentive for him to work hard? 
We have just finished shearing at home and I assure honourable members that there is no incentive for shearers to work their full 5 days. So these tax incentives do not affect only the farmers and production in rural areas; they effect the whole community. I ask honourable members to imagine how many people rely on the maintenance of the machinery of one of the 40-odd members of the Southern Bulldozing and Earth Moving Contractors Association. Members of this Association support the towns where they live. The townspeople rely on them- not on the farming community. I can clearly see that most of these people will have to leave and find other employment with a loss of finance, and for some of them, their life 's endeavour. 
The Government is now faced with the prospect of spending millions of dollars on the Regional Employment Development scheme. Because of the position today one can only compliment the Government on that scheme. But how and why have we got to this position? The Government is spending millions of dollars on the RED scheme. It is probably faced with a massive task under the National Employment and Training Scheme. It appears to me that if the Government took a different approach and if it considered whether tax incentives should be given- allowing for the good reasons which I have suggested- it would find that in rural areas there would be no great need for the RED scheme or the NEAT scheme. I venture to say that this situation follows through to the cities. We know that they are all inter-related. If these bulldozer contractors have to find other employment I assure the Government that they will gravitate to the cities. There we will have an unemployment situation in relation to which, in one way or the other, the Government will try to pick up the tab. I point out that these people do not want handouts. They want work. They are inventive, hard working people. They operate by the old spirit that ran throughout the community and nation. They want to get on by their own personal endeavour and hard work. I hope the Government is not foolish enough not to recognise that this is a way we can head back to full employment and to a prosperous situation. My final plea on behalf of these people- as I mentioned in the letter- is that the Government should provide low interest bridging finance to viable contractors, and help those who are not viable to get out of the industry. I believe that the economic climate within the rural sector of Australia will change and that just as quickly as it has turned down, it will turn up again. The expertise of these people in a very short time will be lost to the rural areas of Australia. They will have to go some place else. Their machines will be repossessed. When we have a period where work needs to be done, where water needs to be conserved, where soil conservation measures are needed I am very much afraid that there will not be any people to carry out the work. There will be a deterioration in our way of life and the system which we have had in rural areas of Australia will be something that we will never recover. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I am amazed that the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  would think that there is some division between the Liberal and Country Parties in coming to a recommendation on the amendments that we have proposed tonight. I can assure him that they were the result of the work of the joint rural committee of the 2 parties, of which I am pleased to be a member. Those amendments were brought down by that joint party committee. They are Liberal and Country Party amendments. There is no way in the world that honourable members opposite can put divisions between us. Solidarity is what we have. For the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to suggest that the Australian Wool Industry Conference will have nothing to do with the amendments is absolute rubbish. I do not know how he came to the conclusion that that was the case, because in my hand I have a telegram addressed to the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  dated 28 November 1974. It says: 
Wool Industry Bill. Appreciate advice of proposed amendments. 
I will read some extracts from it. 
If the honourable member would like me to read the lot I will do so. It says: 
Confirm Conference viewpoint telephoned you earlier today that whilst it supports generally views expressed in amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8 it does not regard them as principal issues. Amendment S concerning clause 28a. (12) is essential and Conference believes further amendment to sub-section (12) necessary and should now read: 'If any moneys stand to the credit of the Market Support Fund after the profit or loss certified under sub-section (5) has been dealt with in accordance with sub-section (9) or ( 1 1 ), those moneys shall be applied by the Corporation for such purpose  in relation to the wool industry as is determined by the Minister after approval has been given by the Australian Wool Industry Conference in writing to the Minister. 
I suggest in all sincerity that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has misled the House. The telegram was signed 'Grummet for  chairman  D. D. Von Bibra'. Let me return to the amendment. At the end it says:  ... as determined by the Minister after approval has been given by the Australian Wool Industry Conference in writing to the Minister on recommendation made by the Corporation. 
The difference is that the Bill says that these moneys shall be applied by the Corporation for such purpose in relation to the wool industry as is determined by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Opposition stands by its conviction that this would lead to a situation whereby the Minister would have full control and the Australian Wool Industry Conference would be nothing more than a rubber stamp for what the Minister wanted to do with those moneys. 
-As has been pointed out, they are grower moneys. So the Opposition is convinced that that amendment is worth while. Our judgment of it has been fully endorsed and backed up by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. In rising to support the amendments let me say that the Bill has been covered very well by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I would just like to mention the rather sweeping powers that this Bill gives to the Corporation. I would like a number of things explained by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who represents the Minister for Agriculture, when he is replying in this debate. Clause 12 seeks to insert after section 39 of the Act the following:  39a. Without limiting the functions of the Corporation under section 38, the functions of the Corporation include, to such extent as the Minister approves, trading in wool and wool products, acquiring and supplying wool for the purposes of programs of aid by Australia to other countries, and manufacturing, or  arranmging  for the manufacture, of wool products. 
I would like to know how far the Corporation and the Government expect this to go. Section 40 (b) as amended by clause 13 reads: 
buy and sell wool at auction or otherwise, export wool and enter into transactions in relation to the buying and selling of wool, including transactions by way of wool futures contracts; 
Clause 13 (b) provides: 
The Corporation shall not enter into transactions by way of wool futures contracts except in accordance with an approval of the Minister. 
I am not criticising that. I think that such power is in order and that the futures market should be used, but there is some concern and some disquiet as to just what effect the futures market has on the wool industry. It could be argued that a heavy buying or selling of wool futures in distant months will have a completely adverse effect upon the wool market. I do not claim to be an authority on this subject, in fact I do not think anyone would claim to be an authority on the wool futures market in Australia. It could be open to manipulation, especially by a big seller or a big buyer, as may have happened in years gone by. I advocate, and would like to see the Government institute, an inquiry into the futures market in an endeavour to gauge their usefulness -in fact, to gauge the role that they actually play in the Australian wool market. I advocate this quite sincerely because I am of the opinion that they could be used to manipulate the market and could have a dampening effect on the market rather than a levelling effect as we are ied to believe. They could have a much more serious dampening effect on the market than we know. So I urge the Minister to see whether some type of inquiry could be instituted. 
As I said, the Bill contains many sweeping powers and, as pointed out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  it can involve any part of the wool industry. I refer briefly to proposed new section 20a (1), which states: 
Before taking any action that could reasonably be expected to affect the conditions of employment, or the demand for labour, in the wool industry, the Corporation shall consult with, and have regard to the view's of, the appropriate trade union organisations. 
I do not refer to this particular section because of the involvement of the trade union organisations but mention it because it covers the whole spectrum of the wool industry, including the demand for labour in the industry. This surely must cover the wool industry from the farm to when the wool has been sold. One of my major fears about the wool industry today is probably concerned not so much with the marketing of the wool but with the actual harvesting of it. I think that the Government, through the Corporation, has the ability to look at this aspect. 
In my electorate of Forrest there is an organisation called the Southern Districts Sheep Research Council. It was formed by wool producers and sheep breeders in the Great Southern district of Western Australia. Its primary purpose is to investigate research being carried out all over Australia and in New Zealand into such matters as ewe infertility, lamb mortality, control of internal and external parasites, fleece rot, foot abscess- in fact, all the diseases associated with sheep. However, over the last couple of years this council has become convinced that by far the most urgent problem in the wool industry is to find a more efficient and much less labour intensive method of shearing sheep and handling wool. Over the last 15 months the cost of shearing and wool handling has virtually doubled. The contract price in Western Australia was 70c a head and is now approximately $1.10. The price of wool has approximately halved in the past 8 months. At the present time the cost of shearing a lamb would not equal the market value of its wool and lambs comprise about onethird of the Australian flock. Doubtless, shearing rates will increase still further and all costs are escalating. Already the wool industry has reached a crisis point with costs threatening to swamp the already minute margin between costs and prices. If drastic action is not taken the Australian wool industry could perish, as has happened in countries such as the United States of America, Great Britain and Europe because shearing methods are far too labour intensive for the industry to survive. 
In spite of greatly increased shearing rates, there is a growing shortage of shearers and, because it is such hard work and often takes men away from home for long periods, few young men are entering the industry. However, the introduction of a new method of shearing will take years to be adopted universally and should not threaten the livelihood of any of today's shearers, but they will not last indefinitely. No new shearing method will meet the needs of the industry unless it drastically reduces and ultimately eliminates hard labour in removing the wool from the sheep at a lower cost than at present and without damage to the animal or reducing the market value of the wool. Work on new shearing methods is progressing, for example, chain shearing and chemical defleecing. However, both are labour intensive and will not meet our standards. Wool and sheep handling account for about half the cost of the whole shearing operation. The industry generally has developed very efficient methods of transporting and packaging goods. This knowledge must be adopted and used to move sheep around the shearing shed, to grade and separate wool and to move the wool from the shearing board to the bale with a minimum of hard labour. Wool handling should be reorganised while a new shearing method is being adopted. 
Because no one appeared to be working on an automatic sheep shearing machine, the Southern Districts Sheep Research Council in Western Australia decided to seek professional advice and was told that it should be possible to make such a machine but that nothing could be undertaken without a prior feasibility study into all aspects. It was told that this study would be complex but would be completed in 6 months and would cost $50,000. The Director of Wool Production Research of the Australian Wool Corporation was asked to do the feasibility study but the proposal was rejected. Consequently the Council decided on 24 July 1974 to ask wool growers to contribute lea sheep to pay for a professional feasibility study into all research and to make recommendations as to whether automatic or mechanised shearing of sheep is possible and, if so, to what engineering firm the work of producing a prototype should be offered. It would probably take 2 years to produce a prototype and therefore considerably more money would be required. If the feasibility study indicates that an automatic sheep shearing machine can be developed, this must be done without delay in the interests of the survival of a viable Australian wool industry. 
In these circumstances, I hope that the Australian Wool Corporation will help with this project and perhaps finance the work from the wool tax. I must congratulate the large group of people who got together, decided that there was a problem and that they as individuals or as a collective group should do something about it. This is a perfect example of people trying to help themselves and I am fully in agreement with them that the wool industry could fail, not because of the way wool is being sold, not because of what may be achieved by this Bill, but because we will not be able to get the wool off the sheep. I urge the Corporation and the Government to pay heed to what I have said about that aspect of the wool industry because I believe this Bill has given the Corporation power to consider this problem. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development in his capacity of representing the Minister for Agriculture. As a brief preamble I point out that although 2 questions concerning the beef industry were asked yesterday of the Minister for Northern Development, I regard the crisis in the industry today to be of such a magnitude that I would expect the Minister and his colleagues to have made important decisions within the last 24 hours. I hope that some member of the House will ask the Minister every day the Parliament is sitting a question on the industry until we receive a more definite answer than that the Government is keeping a close watch on the situation. My question is: As short term liquidity is the major difficulty facing the beef industry, is the Government considering assistance other than the completely inadequate $20m at an interest rate of 1 1 !6 per cent which is now offered? 
-As has been stated by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the Opposition will support this Bill and the necessary amendments that are required. It is strange that so many of the Bills that come before this House require amending. One would think that the Government could perhaps get them in a more acceptable form before presenting them to the House. 
I believe that clause 15 of the Bill needs amending. This clause, as has been the case with much of the legislation the Government has introduced, highlights the Government's socialistic tendencies and its attempts to make a really big grab for power. I will have a little more to say on this aspect later. The honourable member for Gippsland, who led for this side of the House, made a worthwhile and constructive speech, during which he was at no time political. The only time he did border on being political was when he picked up something that the Minister for 
Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said in his second reading speech. I was quite surprised at the degree of politics the Minister brought into his second reading speech when, about the previous Government, he said: 
It was only when the present Government came to office with a commitment to create a modern and efficient rail system for Australia, that legislation emerged. Unfortunately this was the pattern of railway development under our predecessors. The previous Government bogged down nationally important projects such as Tarcoola/Alice Springs line and Adelaide 's standard gauge connection. 
The honourable member for Gippsland answered that criticism. The previous Government advanced $3.4m towards the cost of that railway line and arrangements for the acquisition of all the necessary expertise for the development of the line were well under way. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  very early in his speech indulged in an attack on the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  on the use of diesel oil and the cost of fuel. I take exception to this. I do not know how many times the Leader of the Country Party must explain the very sound and reasonable proposition that he has put up. I do not know how many more times this Government will try to vilify him for what he said and make a monstrous untruth out of the true position. I do not intend to go right through his statement on this subject. But as this matter was brought up in a more or less surreptitious way I believe that the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide should be answered. Anyone who has heard the true and proper explanation of the position taken by the Leader of the Country Party would know that what the honourable member said is not the case. 
Much was made, especially in the Minister's second reading speech, of the non-co-operation of the State governments and the wish, need or compulsion of the Australian Government to take over all the railway systems of Australia. I believe there is a tremendous degree of cooperation between the State railways and Commonwealth Railways. I think it shows a degree of stupidity to say that the present system will not work. One just has to look at the methods and expertise which are used on the 'Indian-Pacific' which goes from Perth to Sydney across 3 States. It runs well and smoothly. It has been a tremendous advantage. It is organised and run by Commonwealth Railways and the 3 States. Tonnes of freight are carried with the co-operation of the railways I have mentioned and so the system is working. 
I do not believe there is any necessity for the Federal Government to take over and to do what the States are doing now to make the railways better. As the honourable member for Gippsland has said, it is not the fault of the State governments. At the start they actively wished to participate in joint discussions about a takeover. But how could they when the Federal Government came forth with none of the explanations or ground rules which were mentioned by the honourable member for Gippsland? It is not my intention to speak for very long as I know others wish to speak. I believe the honourable member for Gippsland covered the Opposition's points very well. I would like to say something about page 5 of the roneod copy of the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport. An obliteration happens to be in my copy too. When detailing the difficulties of the giant project involved in the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line he stated: 
The average person has little comprehension of the complexity of a project such as this. It involves a meticulous survey by both air and land over hundreds of kilometers of featureless country; the opening of ballast quarries; the welding of miles of continuous rail; the laying of hundreds of thousands of - 
Then we come to the word which is painted out, before the word 'sleepers'. As has been demonstrated before, if one holds the page up to the light one sees the typed words: 'concrete sleepers'. The insertion of the word 'concrete' and then its painting out signify to me a commitment to concrete sleepers. Then a very shaky political decision was made about whether the Government should in fact put the word 'concrete ' in. At the last moment the white brush was used and the word was painted out. I say this in all sincerity because the Minister well knows of the forest areas of jarrah and karri in my electorate. So the timber industry is of great concern to me. I have talked to the Minister on this subject over the period I have been in Parliament. He has assured me that the sleeper position will be considered in relation to economics. He has explained that we have 2 Australian industries and whichever is the most economical product is the one which the railways will use. But I have this feeling that Commonwealth Railways in particular are dedicated to concrete sleepers. Even if I did not have the hardwood forests in my electorate I would query the decision. Not only do I query it, but also it is queried very severely within Australia and throughout the world. 
The Western Australian timber industry exports sleepers throughout the world. In the north-western part of Western Australia, where the sleeper industry is under intense competition from Indonesia and other countries in that area in respect of the delivery and the price of sleepers, wooden sleepers are still used. The Western Australian Railways uses only wooden sleepers. It is interesting to note that in the great underground railway system of London and in many other parts of Britain jarrah sleepers are still used. Western Australia also exports them to South Africa. These would not be our only markets. In fact at the moment we could not produce any more sleepers in Western Australia than we are already producing. There are many contracts from all over the world that could be entered into if we could produce the required quantity of sleepers. But that is not my point. 
My point is that these other lands recognise that the wooden sleeper is still the best. It is a fluctuating market because of the supply position, and naturally when we cannot supply these other markets throughout the world those countries have to turn to concrete sleepers. But if many countries recognise that the wooden sleeper is best, even when imported at great expense, then in our own country I believe they also would be the best for economic and other reasons. If, with the big railway projects, such as the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line, that are being undertaken, the mills in Australia could be given contracts and guaranteed work this would be of tremendous benefit to the timber industry of Australia. Overseas contracts are fair enough but they come and go, as I have just tried to describe. 
I hope that it was only an accident that the word 'concrete' was used in respect of the Tarcoola line and I trust that the timber industries in Western Australia and in the eastern States will be given consideration in future. It is after all a regenerating commodity that is being used. It is not something whose use leaves nasty scars on the land and that will never be replaced, as is the case with sand and cement. I trust that the word that was used by the Minister was put in his speech by mistake and was painted out deliberately. The Opposition supports the Bill with the necessary amendment. I am surprised that the Government thinks that it can make such amendments to Acts, that it thinks that the Opposition will accept the giving of this tremendous degree of power that the Government wants included in the Railways Act. The time has come for the Government to recognise that this country does not want a truly socialist government such as could be imposed upon it by the passing of Bills such as this. With those remarks I indicate my support for the Bill. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I give the Government credit for knowing just how desperate and in how serious a position some sections of the rural community are. Have there been any recent developments in the Government's attitude to the beef industry, after making available $20m at 12% per cent interest for beef producers? Are there thoughts of enlarging the charter of the Rural Reconstruction Authority or has more thought been given to providing unemployment relief for those in very dire need? 
I must admit that I was quite disappointed in the argument advanced tonight by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  I have heard him speak in this House many times and I have always admired the manner in which he debates the subject. For him to have gone over that ground again, as Government supporters have done so frequently in this debate, for him to just parrot the criticism of the Opposition, amazes me a little. I really and truly thought that he would have made a more constructive contribution to the debate. I believe that the Opposition spokesmen during the day have explained to the House the dangers that this country is facing under the Australian Labor Party administration. 
It is not my intention to re-canvass all those points but I would like to comment on the level of debate from the Government side, as I have done with the contribution of the honourable member for Phillip tonight. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and many others have carried out vicious attacks on the Opposition's suggestions for sound economic management. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  endeavoured to give a rational summing up of the Government's position. He was about the only one who did so. Mind you, I think that he was going back about 5 months and has not realised the significance of what is happening in the country today. No real effort has been made by the Government to explain how it expects to deal with inflation and the resultant morass that the country is in because of inflation and because of the Government's economic mismanagement. One has the uncomfortable feeling after the last few days that the Government will continue to spend and print money, no matter what the consequences. In answer to a question on Tuesday from the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  on unemployment, the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in part: 
I assure the honourable member and every other honourable member that if by government expenditure I can ensure that any one of those men is put to work productively I will make sure that he is, and he will not be allowed to remain in unemployment because of a shortage of money. 
I believe that for such schemes as the Regional Employment Development Scheme and, the National Employment and Training Scheme, as well as unemployment benefits, which are endeavouring to grapple with the massive unemployment figure, the overall cost is running at somewhere in the vicinity of $ 1 billion a year- Si, 000m- and I suggest that most of this is not creating productivity. I would argue that if this money were injected into the private sector, which employs three-quarters of the workforce, by way of tax cuts and assistance to the productive side of our economy, there would not be any need for this massive expenditure of $1 billion. The unemployed in our country all come from the private sector. How often does one meet a redundant public servant? In fact, the growth of the Public Service has been quite dramatic over the past  2  years. 
I should like to make one small constructive contribution to the debate. I have a great concern for some sections of our rural community, a concern that I know is shared by many members on both sides of the House. I relate my remarks to the Supply Bill that is before the House by saying that, as far as future expenditure is concerned, no concern is indicated for the need to give assistance to some of the very kw echelon people in our primary industries. In the brief time available to me I make a suggestion to the Government which may be of assistance. The Government has budgeted for a mssive deficit. This has created our present type of economic society. I venture to say that if there were not this deficit, with resultant high production costs, I would not be here asking for assistance to be given to the lower echelons of our rural sector. In my electorate of Forrest are a lot of new land farmers- people who have come in since the end of the war. They were encouraged to go on the land; they have taken up fertile land and their farms have been growing progressively over the last 20 years. They have made a major contribution to the economy of this country. Because of changing economic standards, because of the world situation, a significant number of these people are in dire straits. 
A survey was conducted in one part of my electorate which has some significance for the new land farmers there, and I stress that I am not trying to defend the third generation farmers in my comments. It is significant to note that prior to 1969 many of the new land farmers would have passed any test for long term viability, and this is evidenced by the number of loans which were approved by the Commonwealth Development Bank prior to the establishment of the Rural Reconstruction Authority. Such loans are not granted unless long term viability is evidenced at the time of approval. Two or three major factors have contributed to the sharp decline in viability. Firstly, there is the current high cost of superphosphate, which is an essential element for use in this type of land in Western Australia. Secondly, there is the existing high interest rate attracted by the debts of these farmers. Thirdly, there is the relatively short term of the total debt position and, additionally, there is the increase in costs. Referring to that increase in costs, the price of superphosphate has risen from about $18 or $20 a tonne on the ground to $60 a tonne on the ground. The increase in the cost of labour can be instanced by shearing costs, which have risen from about 72c a head for contract shearing to $ 1 . 10 a head last year. I do not think that anyone on the other side of the House can argue that these massive increases are the fault of the farmers. It is something that this Government and the society it has created have pressed upon us. The cost of more than $60 a tonne for superphosphate on the ground will permit the servicing of a nil debt on a farm carrying 6,000 dry sheep equivalent, using $4,000 a year for living expenses and the current long term wool prices estimated by the Rural Reconstruction Authority and the Commonwealth Development Bank. The survey carried out showed that the average farms were not carrying 6,000 dry sheep equivalent and their debt loads were almost $46,000. 
Within the present framework of institutional lending, with current interest charges and costs, the position of these farmers is hopeless. I should point out that the survey covered a lot of people and a tremendous area in my electorate in Western Australia, and its findings would flow through to a lot of other areas within the Commonwealth. The Rural Reconstruction Authority has proved to be effective and flexible when its charter permits it to lend, but the average farmer in my electorate is outside the scope of the existing rural reconstruction scheme. The Authority is not legally permitted to lend to this type of farmer because, based upon any reasonable long term assessment of his prospects of success, he has failed miserably.  His  farm is not viable. The restoration of the superphosphate bounty will not improve the viability of the farms sufficiently to bring them within the scope of the existing scheme administered by the Rural Reconstruction Authority. The depressing aspect of this to the farmers, who on average are very capable and good managers, is that their existing debts are increasing at an alarming rate. Stock firm debts attract interest at from 12.75 per cent to 15 per cent on a daily balance, which is approximately 14.5 per cent to 17 per cent annually, and bank overdrafts attract interest at the rate of 1 1.5 per cent a year. 
I argue tonight for a combination of measures. The restoration of the superphosphate bounty is under consideration. I ask that consideration be given to the expansion of the scope of the charter of the Rural Reconstruction Authority to enable it to assist farmers where their long term viability is not established but where operating expenses can be met in the short and medium term. In such cases, total debts could be taken over and the loan could be repaid over a period of 25 to 30 years at nominal interest rates. The survey clearly demonstrates that 4 per cent interest is too high for new land farmers who are operating essentially grazing properties. Where the Authority takes over total debts, a registered bill of sale should be taken over stock, thus preventing the relending by stock firms of excessive amounts of money which must be repaid from immediate income. In conjuction with the trading banks, or in some instances by a loan, the expanded Authority could provide the total or part of the seasonal carry-on needs as they occur from time to time. The scope of the Rural Reconstruction Authority would shift from its existing supplementary lending role to one where, in instances similar to those of the average farmers I have mentioned, total long term and carry-on needs could be approved against the security of a property mortgage. A bill of sale could be taken over stock and plant, and crop loans made where applicable. 
During the debate last Thursday night on Appropriation Bill (No. 5) an agreement was reached between the Government and the Opposition that we limit our time to 10 minutes each in order to allow as many speakers as possible to participate in that debate. I embarked on what I thought was constructive criticism of the Government's attitude towards rural industries. Unfortunately, I did not have time to conclude my remarks. I take this opportunity to do so.  Mr Speaker,  as you will probably recall, I was dealing with the lower echelon of the farming community. I endeavoured to awaken an awareness within the Government of the dire straits in which this section finds itself. There is no doubt that it is in dire straits. Within my electorate there have been a number of forced sales of farms.  Mr Speaker,  I am sure you realise the effect forced sales have on farming lands because of the depressed conditions which we are going through today. A small property which, under realistic conditions, would be valued at $30,000 was almost sold for $8,000 a few days ago. 
It was nearly sold for $8,000. Fortunately, a real estate agent came to the rescue- he was a friend- and the land was eventually sold for $16,000. 1 admit that this is twice the amount of $8,000. But it is only a little over half the real value of the land. Under conditions like this who buys these properties? It is usually a person who has been completely obnoxious to the Australian Labor Party. It is usually the big wheeler dealer who comes in. He can afford to speculate for a few years. He can make an absolute and unrealistic profit out of the farming area and he can take his net gain after a period to the detriment of the original owner of the property. 
Many measures have been suggested to the Government to relieve the current position. Last Thursday night I suggested that the Rural Reconstruction Authority charter should be changed. The main point I had time to make then was that the charter and the scope of the Rural Reconstruction Authority should be extended to enable it to assist farmers where longterm viability was not established but where operating expenses could be met in the short and medium term. In such cases total debts could be taken over and the loan could be repaid over 25 to 30 years at a nominal interest rate. I am afraid to say that the rate would have to be nominal because of the farmers' position. This type of lending was conducted by the Commonwealth Development Bank for many of the Ord River farmers so it is nothing new. Total seasonal carryon requirements were provided year by year upon a crop lien and properly mortgaged security. The expansion of the Authority would require at least some degree of managed credit. 
When the tide eventually changes and when prosperity reappears in the rural areas the farmer could either sell his property upon an improved land market or he could continue farming, possibly with a rearrangement of repayments. I would consider that managerial skills and ability would be imporatant criteria for lending. I mentioned earlier forced sales and what is occurring within certain sections of the rural community. I would like to see the charter of the Rural Reconstruction Authority expanded to permit the purchase of properties which could be subsequently sold to assisted or non-assisted buyers. This would be a provision similar to that contained in the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act now in operation. If a buyer for the property could not be found immediately I have no doubt that the Authority could lease the property to nearby landowners. I am suggesting this because of the forced sale situation which has arisen. Many farmers are leaving their properties and for some it is after a lifetime of work. Small farmers have been caught in the squeeze and the endeavours of a lifetime are going down the drain. Surely these people should be able to leave with dignity. 
I pointed out earlier that those who are in a position to snap up these forced sale farms will not in the main be people who are doing so to carry on the farming traditions. They are doing so to make a quick dollar. The average farmer is known to be very efficient. He posseses managerial skills and local experience that allow him to achieve worthwhile results. The present predicament he faces is brought about by political and external contrivance over which he has no control and of which he has little prior warning. I believe that the Rural Reconstruction Authority has demonstrated that it has the necessary expertise, particularly in Western Australia, and the flexibility to handle the existing scheme effectively. It is well within its capabilities to include for loan consideration those farmers who can meet their operating expenses so that their debts are bedded down over 25 to 30 years at low interest rates. 
An infant industry principle could be applied to this type of farmer. When I say 'this type of farmer' I suppose I have in mind mainly the new land farmers of Western Australia, first generation farmers, who have developed their land within the last 15 to 20 years, some only recently. They have not had time to establish themselves. For most of them the major part of their existing structure would be loans from the Commonwealth Development Bank. Before they took out these loans they had to prove long term viability. The proving of viability at any time is awkward, for who can really say just what the price of a product will be in X years time? Within the last few years we have seen dramatic rises in the wool and beef industries, and such dramatic falls. To prove long term viability today when they are in dire straits is most difficult. Applying the infant industry principle to these farmers with a very low interest rate and bedding down their debts for a period of time would keep them on the land and keep them in production. I would also like to see some consideration given to keeping a certain section of the rural community on their farms. I speak here of older farmers who find themselves in a locked in position. If the other schemes I have mentioned do not work, I believe a pension scheme should be introduced to allow them, in addition to what they receive from their land, to enjoy a reasonable standard of living if they wish to stay on their farms. If they wish to move out with very little money, the cost of moving them and placing them in cities and towns, with the cost of servicing their needs and, if they are a bit younger, retraining them and trying to reemploy them adds up to a tremendous amount of money. It may be that a pension-type scheme, as 1 call it, could be worked out whereby such farmers could be kept on their land to continue production and to make a contibution to society and be happy in what they are doing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the official estimate of the stock pile of beef of the European Economic Community. 
What is the current rate of increase or decrease of this stock pile. 
-In common with the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  I have agreed to limit the time on which I will speak to this Bill. There are many things that I would like to say about the beef industry but with the pressure imposed on the House today by the amount of business to be considered, I will deal with only a very small section of those aspects. My colleagues who preceded me have canvassed the broad areas of the trouble experienced by the beef industry and so I will limit myself to a few remarks on this legislation. 
I doubt very much that $ 19.6m is a sufficient amount of finance to relieve the extreme difficulties in which the beef industry finds itself today. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  obviously recognised this when he placed before Cabinet a submission for $30m. Further funding for this purpose may be discussed at the proposed review meeting early in 1976. I trust that the Government will keep a close watch on the industry to gauge its needs in the future. 
While we agree with the legislation- and I commend the Government for at last following the initiatives of the States- I do quarrel with the unfair allocation to individual States. There would appear to have been a misunderstanding between the Government of Western Australia, in particular, and the Commonwealth Government. I believe that the governments of Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales have certainly not had a fair deal in comparison with South Australia and Tasmania. I believe also that the Northern Territory was prepared to match the Commonwealth with $1.5m, but the Commonwealth was prepared to meet the Northern Territory only to the tune of $ 1 m. 
In this respect, let us look quickly first at the State and Commonwealth contributions and compare them with the cattle numbers in each State. Of the $ 19.6m, Queensland is to receive $10m. It has a cattle population of 5 876 000. New South Wales with cattle number of 8 457 000 will receive $5m. Victoria will receive $2m for its 10 297 000 cattle. South Australia will receive $1.5m. Its cattle population is 1 692 000. With a cattle population of 2 330 000, Western Australia is to receive $800,000. Tasmania will receive $300,000 in respect of its 884 000 cattle. 
-Yes. These amounts of money match the contributions of each State. 
The misunderstanding to which I referred earlier must have started back at an Agricultural Council meeting in late January. It is apparent that the Commonwealth Minister for Agriculture thought he had reached agreement with the States that the beef industry was in serious trouble, that the problem was of a magnitude too large for the Commonwealth to tackle alone, and that the States would have to be part of any rescue operation. As I understand the then situation, no organisation was set up to implement the decisions made at that meeting. I am not in a position to know where the breakdown occurred. The States probably thought the Commonwealth should take the initiative and put proposals to the States. The Commonwealth probably was waiting for the States to come up with initiatives and proposals to the Commonwealth. To my mind, the whole situation indicates in fact not only the inefficiency but also the lack of concern that this Labor Government has for the rural areas of Australia 
Time went by until the problem of the beef producers in Queensland became of such magnitude that the Queensland Government was forced to go it alone. It announced on 27 February that $10m would be made available in loans to its producers at an interest rate of  2Vi  per cent. This action was followed by an announcement by the Victorian Government on 14 March that $2m would be made available as carry-on finance for beef producers. The Western Aus.tralian Government, still hopeful of a CommonwealthState arrangement, waited until 14 April before announcing that it would make $800,000 available to its producers as carry-on finance. Not having had consultation with the Federal Government- and I hold the Federal Government responsible for this breakdown, it being the senior partner and having reached agreement back in January- Western Australia allocated this amount as an interim measure. As it has endeavoured to point out at subsequent meetings with the Australian Government, it related this $800,000 to the 1974-75 financial year and the period immediately following 30 June. It argued that the level of funding would have to be reconsidered in relation to demand established when the scheme got under way. The Western Australian Government submitted that, since the Australian Government was now thinking in terms of a scheme running for the next 12 months without any flexibility, it wished to increase its contribution to $ 1.6m. 
The South Australian and Tasmanian governments would not commit themselves to a contribution until they knew that the Australian 
Government would match it dollar for dollar and until they were aware that the scheme was intended to run for 12 months. They submitted amounts which were in excess of those for Western Australia on the basis of cattle numbers and industry problems. Western Australia has 2.33. million cattle and South Australia has 1.692 million. Western Australia covers a third of the continent and much of our cattle population is in the north of the State. In 1971-72 there were 1.044 million cattle in the south-west and 756 000 in the Kimberleys and if it is recognised that Queensland has a special problem it should also be recognised that we in Western Australia have one, with nearly half of our cattle in the north of the State. I do not begrudge South Australia its $1.5m. I am pointing out that we in Western Australia have a greater problem. We were prepared, when it was realised that it was a 12-month scheme, to double our commitment on the same day and at the same meeting at which South Australia and Tasmania made their initial commitment. 
This is the right type of scheme. There is a great need now for low interest finance for the survival of this essential industry but I protest at the hard line the Government has taken with the States, particularly Victoria and Western Australia in the division of this money. I would also have liked the States to be left in the position of handling the allocation of this finance through their chosen agencies. The Western Australian Government, realising the desperate situation of many of its producers, was proceeding to allocate this money as quickly as possible and with the smallest amount of red tape possible through the Rural and Industries Bank of Western Australia. Now the money is directed through the Rural Reconstruction Authority and, while I recognise that this is a very worthy organisation, it necessarily means a form of lending which involves a degree of bureaucracy and that certaintly takes time. I am concerned also that the terms of lending by the Rural Reconstruction Authority will be applicable to this money and that therefore it Will be necessary to prove long term viability which is impossible at present beef prices, especially for the very low echelon of beef producers to whom this money is directed and who the State governments initially visualised would be receiving sustenance money almost immediately. 
On the broader issues, I would hate anybody to think that this is a welfare program. Much criticism is directed by the Government at rural industries and the amount of assistance given by the Government to them is repeatedly mentioned, but the bulk of that money is loan money. This also is loan money which will eventually come back to the Government and the taxpayers. 
The Prime Minister will recall that the 3 recent reports submitted to the Government by the Industries Assistance Commission dealing with rural matters, namely, superphosphate, tuberculosis, brucellosis and the farm income averaging reports, appear to have been ignored by the Government. Does he hold out any hope of the Government giving sympathetic consideration to the IAC report on the beef industry if that report suggests Federal Government assistance? 
It is interesting to follow the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and to hear his well reasoned version of what this Government has done for the beef producer in particular. 
Yes. It was interesting to hear him explain about socialised sewerage, socialised water supplies and other socialised services. The honourable member concluded by reading from a report which had been brought down by the Industries Assistance Commission. It has presented some great reports. What beef producers and other people living in rural areas are looking for is a Utile bit of action on the reports presented by the IAC. It is not enough for honourable members to rise here and to read out the recommendations in such reports. Those reports should be before Cabinet and before Caucus so that something may be done about the recommendations. 
I turn to the Budget which was brought down on the 19 August It has been hailed by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  as a great Budget of restraint. Let me give some figures in relation to this Budget of restraint. Outlays are estimated to increase in 1975-76 by $4,084m or 22 per cent to $2 1,9 15m. Receipts are estimated to increase by $3,852m or 25.2 per cent to $19,1 17m. The estimated deficit in this great Budget of restraint is $2,798m with a domestic deficit of $2,068m. I submit that it is not a Budget of restraint at aU. I quote those figures to indicate the dramatic increase that there has been in budgeting in the last year. The main area in which we will find restraint in this Budget is where it deals with the rural sector or that section relating to the Department of Agriculture. The estimates for the Department of Agriculture for 1975-76, as has been mentioned before, involve Government outlays of $237m as against Government outlays last financial year of $447. lm, which is a decrease in expenditure of $2 10m. This is a very significant decrease when compared with the increases that are proposed in every other field of Government management. The rural sector of Australia can really wonder whether this Government has its interests at heart as the Government claims it has. 
I should like to go briefly through the figures which make up this sum of $237m, which is the estimated outlay on agriculture this year, to see to what extent this outlay is a charge on the taxpayer. We hear much in this place about the greedy farmers, the farmers who always want to take too much out of the system and do not want to put enough back. Running through the figures, I find that an amount of $ 126m is provided for wool marketing assistance. As we all know, that is a loan, it is not a direct charge on the taxpayer. A sum of $49m is provided for research, promotion and other expenditure. That is more than balanced by the contribution of $74.5m which the industry makes by way of a charge of 8 per cent on wool sold. 
The wheat industry is actually contributing to its own stabilisation scheme. That is fair enough; after aU, it is a rural producing industry. This year it is contributing $30m to its own stabilisation scheme. So that is not a charge on the taxpayer. In fact, the industry itself is putting in a big amount of money this year. 
Yes. The main outlay for the fruit industry is one of $4.4m for the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. We all know that this money will be paid on last season 's crop, not on the coming season's crop. I turn to the cattle, sheep and pig meat industries. An amount of $ 19.6m is provided for beef industry loans. The other amounts of money that are provided for this industry in the Budget are balanced by the $27m which Will be received in charges and repayments. Then there are the amounts of money provided for the Commonwealth Development Bank for rural lending, for rural reconstruction. The amounts of money I have mentioned that are not a charge on the Government roughly total $264m. I have included in that figure the sum of $30m for the wheat industry, because it is a charge against rural industries this year. So we end up with a net figure of $2 7.7m- that is a very rough estimate- to which the farming and rural community, although not actually contributing it, is on the deficit side of the book. 
Some rural industries, including the beef industry, the potato industry, the fruit industry and many sections of the dairy industry, are in dire straits. Although these industries are in dire straits, overall the rural industries of Australia certainly are not a drag on the taxpayer. One has to remember the contribution that the rural industries of Australia make to our export income and also the amount of money which flows through the community because rural industries are great export earners. 
I should like to refer to another section of the Budget, which has not been mentioned a great deal, to show what rural industries have lost. The Budget Papers, on page 71, state: 
Apart from these direct outlays from the Budget, substantial additional assistance, as noted above, has been provided through the Budget by way of special taxation concessions which, as they result in a reduction of Government revenues, are as much a call on the Budget as direct outlays. The amount of revenue forgone in 1974-75 through the main taxation concessions for which data are available is estimated to have been $2 44m. 
I know that on many occasions in this place we have argued about the concessions that have been given to the rural sector over the years. Most of those concessions which account for that sum of $244m were withdrawn in 1972-73 but still had an effect last year, while others were withdrawn or modified in 1973-74. 1 am arguing the point that this $2 44m, although not a direct outlay to the rural producer, is something that he has lost during the last 12 months and that he will lose in this Budget. It has been building up over the last couple of years. Under these circumstances one can see that the rural producer is endeavouring to more than pull his weight within the community. 
I make the final point that it is not only a matter of lack of concern by this Government in the areas that have been mentioned by my colleagues today; another great concern relates to the rising costs in our community. The Budget hinges around an increase of 22 per cent in wages this year. This will result in the payment of an additional $2, 800m in taxation. If one works that back one finds that it represents a wages increase of about $6, 100m to the private sector. This will get back to the fellow on the end of the line, rural people. It is a massive wages increase. Our costs will escalate more than the rural industries of Australia will be able to stand. This gets back to the question of inflation and of the Government's complete inability to handle the situation. 
-I believe that the Opposition case has been so very well canvassed by the honourable member for New England,  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  tonight that it does not leave a great deal to be said. I endorse his remarks and wish to add something about the Western Australian scene. There is no doubt that it has been extraordinarily difficult for the Government to come up with a levy scheme to finance the Apple and Pear Corporation that is equitable between the States, considering the problems of Queensland and the problems of Tasmania. There is no doubt in my mind that if a levy could have been raised on production it would have been the fair way. The difficulties of such a system have been ably pointed out by the honourable member for New England. He referred to the tremendous amount of fruit that is sold by the side of the road and the difficulties of trying to account for the production. It is not very difficult to try to account for the acreage that is used. 
To my mind this is a very trying time. I find that every time I am speaking in this House I am saying what a very trying time it is for one industry or another connected with the rural scene, but there is no doubt that it is a very difficult time for the fruit industry, particularly the apple industry of Australia. We have lost some of our traditional markets and Western Australia is trying to get into the Japanese market. There are problems with freight but the main problems are connected with getting into overseas markets or maintaining overseas markets. These problems today are almost insurmountable. 
I endorse the comments of the honourable member for New England about the levy. I am concerned about the way it is going to work. I ask the Government to keep an eye on it and not to let it go on if gross iniquities develop or even if they exist from the start. I believe the Apple and Pear Corporation is an organisation that is more than necessary within Australia today. I think that in Western Australia there is a general acceptance that we need such an organisation to handle all the marketing and do the things which it has been set up to do. If I may mention my own State, there is in Western Australia a divided view about the Corporation. I flag a warning to the Corporation and also to the Government that the growers in Western Australia Will be particularly interested to see that the Corporation performs as intended and that the levies raised and the moneys spent in the manner they are going to be spent are of benefit to the whole Australian industry and the growers in Western Australia 
Western Australia is a very significant apple producer. Many times it gets overlooked in the general context of things because Tasmania has always been known as the Apple Isle. In 1971 Western Australia exported 1 876 000 bushels of apples as against total Australian exports of 7 881 000 bushels. At that time Tasmania exported 4 775 000 bushels. In 1975 there has been a significant drop in the overall figure. The figure for total exports in 1975 is 4 600 000 bushels. Western Australia had a far bigger percentage than it had in 1971. It exported 1 300 000 bushels. At the same time Tasmania's exports dropped to 2 800 000 bushels from 4 775 000 bushels. So Western Australia besides being a significant producer of export fruit, has maintained its export production far better than any other State and far better than the Commonwealth as a whole. 
Because it is the way of Western Australians Western Australian producers have been extremely generous to the rest of the Commonwealth. They do not mind entering into a corporation that is going to benefit the whole of the Commonwealth. If the State had a very good growers' organisation and it decided to do so, it could handle its own exports and not be part of the whole Australian scene. Western Australia is much closer to traditional markets. It would not be in the position of having to subsidise to a degree the exports of the eastern States. It is so much closer to Singapore and the other markets that are opening up in the Middle East. If we crack the Japanese market, once again Western Australia is so much closer to that market. Western Australians have an extraordinary generosity. We endeavour in the wheat scene and in the minerals scene to share our wealth with the rest of the Commonwealth and without too much complaint. 
I raise with the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  the question of what is going to happen with the stabilisation scheme and the export scene. Last year the Government made a significant contribution to the apple and pear industry. I appreciate that the Government has asked the Industries Assistance Commission to make a report on the industry. But when the industry is experiencing reasonably difficult times I believe that the Government should not wait for the report before making a decision about a stabilisation scheme for the coming season. It is getting to the stage- I am sure the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  would back me up in this- when some of our growers are right on the border line between being able to produce profitably and not being able to do so. At the moment they are still in a position to make a decision whether they will go to the expense of carrying out all their normal operations of pruning, cultivating and spraying. All these normal things represent a big outlay for them. On the other hand if there is going to be no stabilisation scheme or no assistance this year for the apple industry they may say: 'We must close the shop up. We Will not do anything. We will just get what we can off the trees and make a quid that way'. 
-That is very well said. I do not really see how the Government can argue against this premise: It is an industry that is down, it is an industry that has had assistance, it is an industry for which one would expect the Industries Assistance Commission would come up with a reasonable suggestion for government assistance. In the interim surely it is not unreasonable to expect the Government to make a decision shortly. There is not a lot of money involved. This industry provides a lot of labour. Over the years it has provided and still provides export earnings. It is an industry that helps with the wealth of our nation. I make that plea to the Minister in all sincerity. The fact is that in many areas right throughout the Commonwealth- particularly in Tasmania- it would not be unreasonable to ask the Federal Government to look at ways and means of assisting the Apple and Pear Corporation with its financing this year. In the 5 years I have mentioned there has been a significant drop in the export of apples. Obviously we are dealing with an industry which is in trouble. So for the very humane reason of ensuring that people are assisted out of the industry in a dignified manner, if they must leave the industry, it is not beyond my comprehension to imagine the Federal Government assisting with financing the Corporation this year. 
-Did the Prime Minister complain personally to the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission when he heard a word on a news bulletin the pronunciation of which he does not like? As the result did the Australian Broadcasting Commission remove the news item from its bulletins? Was the word in contention 'kilometre'? Is the Prime Minister out of step on its pronunciation not only with the ABC and the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs who is responsible for metric conversion, but also with his former teacher,  Mr Enoch  Powell? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many delegates from Western Australia is the Australian Government assisting financially to attend the conference at Queensland University between 25 and 29 August 1975 with the theme- Women's Health in a changing Society. 
What organisations do these women represent. 
What is the cost to the Government for (a) Western Australian delegates and (b) the conference. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-I address my question to the Minister for Transport who would be aware that there is a huge potential market for the shipment by air of live and chilled cattle from Western Australia to the Gulf countries. Is is a fact that Qantas Airways Ltd is endeavouring to dispose of a Boeing 707 aircraft? If so, has the possibility of using that aircraft for this trade been investigated? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Before calling the honourable member for Wilmot I remind honourable members that this will be that honourable member's maiden speech. I would expect the usual courtesies to be shown to him. 

That is quite right. The honourable member has already spoken during this debate. I am afraid he can speak only once. 
-The necessity for this Bill to be introduced indicates the difficulties facing the canned fruit industry. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the canned fruit industry is facing such acute financial difficulties at the present time that the major co-operative canneries have been able to pay growers to date only 40 per cent to 60 per cent, depending on the canneries, of the prices declared in 1975 by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for peaches and pears. 
The central reason why the industry is in such difficulties is one which threatens most of our rural industries, particularly the industries that rely on exporting. Like the beef industry, the domestic market is influenced by our export market. The fruit canning industry is under severe threat, as is also the fresh fruit industry. They are tied closely together. The basic reason why they are under threat is that we have priced ourselves out of the overseas markets. As the relentless push for higher wages, shorter working hours, better conditions and higher tariffs for the protection of our secondary industries has gained momentum over the last few years, so has the pressure mounted on our export industries. The canned fruit industry is perhaps the frailest of these industries; so today it is in extreme difficulties. It is not only the internal cost structure which is killing the industry. There are external pressures too. The greatest of these would be the increase in freight rates, especially to our traditional markets, and also basically our traditional markets being closed with an effective 25 per cent tariff against canned fruits exported from Australia to the European Economic Community. The change in currency rates, between both our customers and our competitors, has had a marked influence. One of our main competitors, South Africa, has recently devalued her currency by 17 1/2 per cent. The Israeli pound, as pointed out by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  from September 1974 to February 1976 moved from 5.4 to the Australian $ 1 to 9.3 to the Australian $1. Also Israel, Greece and South Africa are closer to our traditional markets- the EEC- and therefore have a big freight advantage. To complicate the situation further, there are imports of fruit or fruit products such as apple pulp and juice into Australia which disrupt our domestic market and have an effect on the fruits the subject of this Bill. 
Every way that one turns one sees a desperate situation which requires strong and sympathetic government action to support the industry and to assist the industry to rationalise. It is not only that part of the industry which this Bill deals with, namely apricots, peaches and pears, but also the whole fruit and vegetable canning industries that have to be considered. If the industry agrees, with Government guidance, to rationalise the canning of apricots, peaches and pears to limit production to the requirements of the domestic market, we would see some canners move into the production of apple pulp or vegetables with the inevitable result that these markets would become over-supplied, as some are today, and the traditional producers of these products forced into difficulties. 
In Western Australia we have one canning factory at Manjimup which is in my electorate of Forrest. This cannery traditionally has canned peaches and pears but its main function has been the production of apple pulp. Hence my concern, with the thought of the rationalisation of peaches, pears and apricots, of other canners moving into the production of apple pulp. Since 1973, when the taxation incentives on fruit juice concentrates was removed, the production of apples and apple products in the electorate of Forrest has fallen dramatically. There was a 20 000-tonne capacity throughout this area. It has fallen to 5000 tonnes. If production falls any lower there is no chance that this cannery at Manjimup can survive. I believe that the canning industry and the Government should be concerned not only with special varieties of fruit as they are all intertwined and complementary to one another. It is just as difficult for the Manjimup canning factory to dispose of its surplus apples on the overseas market as it is for other canneries to dispose of their peaches and pears. It is just as difficult for the Manjimup canning factory to sell its product, apples, as it is for us to sell fresh apples overseas. The producers are the same. If the Government sees fit to stabilise the fresh apple product on overseas markets one could argue that it also should assist in stabilising the manufacture of apple products. 
It is becoming increasingly clear, in both fresh fruits, apples and manufactured products, that we cannot compete on overseas markets. The trend has been visible for a number of years and a system of rationalisation should have effectively started and have been maintained 4 years ago. At that time the Government did introduce re-construction through the tree-pull scheme, but at the time industry leaders pointed out that the subsidy offered for tree pull was not a viable proposition and that fruit farmers would hang on in poverty in the hope of better times rather than accept the subsidy offered. 
I know we have difficult economic times in front of us and any thought of more Government expenditure in any field has to be gauged with the utmost caution and deliberation, but here we have a section of the community which in years gone by has been encouraged to increase production and which now finds itself for all the reasons I have given in difficulty. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was pointing out that this Bill deals with certain sections of the fruit industry, namely the canning of peaches, pears and apricots and I was endeavouring to point out the interrelationship of this section of the industry with the whole industry. I had been making a plea for government understanding of the need for rationalisation of the fruit industry. I know we have difficult economic times in front of us and any thought of more government expenditure in any field has to be gauged with the utmost caution and deliberation, but here we have a section of the community which has been encouraged in years gone by to increase production. At that time we had expanding export markets, but the industry now finds itself, for all the reasons I have given earlier, in dire difficulties. We must give it realistic support to overcome these difficulties. 
If the Government does nothing more, or it does no more than what it has done to date with this BUI, there will be a collapse right throughout the fruit canning industry which will lead to tremendous social and economic problems in some areas, and these problems will reflect on the whole community. There will be people having to leave their farms, people going to the cities, people competing for services and goods in the cities in an already over-extended situation there, and people competing for jobs where there is already high unemployment. Realistic rationalisation has to be entered into with the industry by the Government. Surely it is better to rationalise the industry than to continue to subsidise it in a piecemeal manner at a cost to the taxpayer. The taxpayer will be called upon to continue to support the industry. There has to be a reasonably generous tree-pull scheme which will encourage people to get out of the industry and to leave them with some dignity and wherewithal to start perhaps a new vocation. 
Preferably I would like to see this loan not subject to a means test in an endeavour to get production down. The whole canning industrynot only peaches, pears and apricots, but all the fruits, the most important of which I believe is apples, and vegetables- should be looked at. If production controls are placed on one section of the industry quickly canners will move to other products without any real consideration of the profitability of that move, but just to keep their canneries working to capacity, and they will disrupt their neighbouring industries. 
The main throughput of Manjimup Canning Co-operative Limited is a solid pack pie apple. In Australia in 197S the production of solid pack pie apples was 20 000 tonnes. In that year there was a carryover from 1974 of 2000 tonnes, giving a total of 22 000 tonnes in that year. In 1975 the sales were 14 000 tonnes giving a carryover in 1976 of 8000 tonnes. One could suggest a maximum carryover as before of 2000 tonnes as a reasonable quantity, leaving an excess stock currently held of 6000 tonnes. Manjimup Cannery is holding two-thirds of its production from the 1975 crop at this moment. 
If the industry does not get support it is doubtful whether the cannery could get Reserve Bank finance to produce the 4000 tonnes it anticipates manufacturing in 1976. If the cannery does not produce the minimum of 4000 tonnes the company is faced with the reality of closure. This would be disastrous for Western Australian apple growers who have already suffered by the closure of the concentrate industry. This 4000 tonnes compares with the 20 000 tonnes produced in 1973. The 16 000 tonnes difference is dumped or rots on the trees. 
-The honourable member for Swan would know the problems being faced in my area. Some form of voluntary and /or compulsory production control should be introduced to bring production more in line with local demands. This may have to be carried out over a one year or two year period so as to minimise the effect of the present large stock carryover of canneries depending on apple processing. It may be that this control would need to be a combination of both voluntary and compulsory controls: Compulsory control by the Reserve Bank to restrict excess production by the co-operative canners, and voluntary control by canners who, being largely confined to Tasmania and Western Australia- and I am speaking of apple pulp- have already indicated acceptance of such a scheme. As with our fresh apples and the stabilisation scheme which assists our exporters to export, consideration should be given to assisting the producing apple industry to remove the 6000 tonnes of excess stock currently held by producers in Tasmania and Western Australia. I know that the Government and the Minister who is in control of this industry are very aware of the problems that face it. I suggest to the Minister that an investigation should be made of the possibility of using not only surplus apple pulp but also surplus fruit as a foreign aid component. There must be areas throughout the world which need the assistance which Australia is in a position to give. They could benefit from aid provided in the form of solid pack pie apples and other surplus fruits. This is a real problem that the Government and the industry have to face. 
In conclusion,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  let me say how disappointed I am to be making a speech which encourages government support for an industry and which suggests that we can no longer export, that there should be a complete control of production, manufacturing and sales within the industry, and that the Government should give the lead in this regard. To me, it is a frightening thing to be advocating the closing down of what has once been one of our good exporting industries. It is with a sense of doom that I think of the two-thirds of the world 's population that is under-nourished to one degree or another while we are advocating production controls. We are advocating that this industry can no longer export and that we should grow just enough for our own selves, for our own domestic market. 
This is the frailest of our rural industries, but there are other industries that are not very far in front of it. We all know the problems associated with the beef industry, but the wool industry is only a whisker in front of the beef industry. If current claims by shearers were to be implemented, vast sections of our great wool industry would become uneconomic and then what would we do? Would we be advocating production controls or the closure of the wool industry? Would we be advocating the production of just enough for our own needs? I am concerned that two-thirds of the world's population, which represents hundreds of millions of people, will not allow us, in the future, to keep this country with its great potential for the production of food and fibre, and perhaps we will not deserve our country. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The tables read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197603250_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

NOTE: the exchange rates on which these calculations arc based are the 'market rate indications' provided by the Reserve Bank, except in the case of the South African rand where a January 1972 to November 1975 change in the monthly average buying/selling rates has been used. 

<graphic href="098131197603250_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Australian earning figures are 'average weekly earnings per employed male unit'. The U.S. figures are 'average weekly earnings per non-agricultural worker'. 
The exchange rate used is that published by the International Monetary Fund. 
The U.S. dollar- equivalent of Australian average weekly earnings is obtained by multiplying the $A figure by the exchange rate. The estimate so obtained does not give a direct indication of comparative purchasing power of average wages in the two countries. 
I should like honourable members to look now at one part of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics submission to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry recently. It said: 
A feature of the recent ( 1975) cutback on superphosphate usage has been the differential response between cropping activities and grazing activities. 
It goes on to argue, and to use the argument as evidence against a bounty to rural areas, by saying that the level of use of cropping variations has been maintained while its use on grazing properties has been substantially curtailed. The BAE implies that the principal factor concerned with this differential is due to the better financial returns experienced by the grains industry and its better cash now position. Unquestionably that is a factor- a big factor- but I should like to turn the Bureau's own argument back against it in relation to this matter. I would use the same argument precisely to show that all but a few farmers today are literally unable to afford to purchase either superphosphate or nitrogen, and those who do are forced to do so on a purely maintenance dressing basis. One could argue from there whether this has done harm or not. Unfortunately statistics are now so out of date that although I have looked at the total indebtedness, industry by industry, I cannot get relevant facts. But as one who has grown prize winning pastures in South Australia in the past, I can assure the House that although the residual effect of superphosphate is a factor many farmers today are now realising that without any maintenance dressing- in other words by not using superphosphate at all over the last 2 years- great problems are starting to emerge. I refer to the fact that growth rates are not occurring in lambs and calves. I am referring to the fact that in spite of the best managerial considerations that can be applied, whole farms are overstocked. They arc overstocked not on past stock rates, but because the goodness is not in the feed that the cattle and sheep are getting. These statistics are not emerging. My practical observation points very heavily to this fact, which I am sure will be obvious in years to come. 
While I am on that point, and in the minute left to me, let me just finish Professor Donald's comments. He said that not only the southern section of Australia but Esperance, the 90-mile Desert, Townsville lucerne growing country, sections of the Top End of the Northern Territory are all vitally involved as regards efficient agriculture today in the use of superphosphate. That is another factor that must not be overlooked. There are areas of country - 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
What is it that the Opposition wishes to achieve by opposing these measures? Does it wish to see the cost price squeeze that is so apparent in the rural community today and, say, reconstruction measures result in land holdings in Australia being owned by big farmers? One ponders where the logic of members of the Opposition will take them. Where is the farmers ' 6.4 per cent wage increase, such as was recently brought down in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for other workers? Today farmers receive only what is left after State and Federal governments take their taxation charges and measures. Their income is not increasing but decreasing. I except those in the cereal industry at present from those comments. 
I finish as I started, namely by referring to Professor Donald of the Waite Institute. I paraphrase his remarks of some time ago on the bounty. He said: 'Offhand, I cannot think of any incentive to the rural sector likely to return so much to the nation in both soil health for the future and in terms of straight economic return.' 
Before this debate commenced I intended to spend most of my time speaking on the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill. Having heard the Australian Labor Party in its short sighted fashion state that it intends to vote against the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill, I have naturally devoted my remarks to that Bill. I am disappointed at the attitude of the Opposition which I regard as extremely short sighted. I look forward in years to come not only to measures similar to these Bills but to other measures dealing with reconstruction that can aid efficient production in the Australian rural community. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it pleases me to enter into this debate and to support the measures taken by the Government in the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill and the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. It has been a very interesting debate up to date. Many constructive comments have been made from this side of the House. As pointed out by the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  there have been 3 speakers from the Opposition side of the House. The main thrust of their opposition to the second Bill- the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Billhas been that much of this bounty will go to the well-off in our community. They spent a lot of time on this, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Half of his speech was spent knocking the leaders in the pastoral and rural areas. Members of the Opposition describe these people as though they are picking up this bounty, as though it is money in the bank and they go straight off to the Gold Coast to spend it. To my mind, members of the Opposition do not seem to give one thought to what these people contribute to society. Let us face it, people in the rural industries are great contributors by way of the rates and taxes they pay to local government, by their support of their local towns, by their purchase of machinery by paying indirect taxes and one could go on. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said that 40 primary producers got $8,000 each from the subsidy, ten got $17,000 and two got $59,000 each. But has anyone given any consideration to what the top people in the rural industries pay directly in taxation? The latest figures I have are for 1972-73 and they have been compiled by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library statistical service from individual taxation sheets. Not everyone involved in the rural industries is included in these sheets. For instance the sheets do not apply to companies involved in the rural area. In 1972-73 246 producers had a combined taxable income of$ 17,392,000. 
-Yes. The sheet from which I am reading is set out in the following manner: The statistics for sheep grazing are set out in the first column; sheep-grain growing in the second column; fishing, hunting, trapping and forestry in the third column; and 'other primary products' in the fourth column. The sheet concerns only primary producers. The net tax that was paid by these 246 individual producers in 1972-73 was $10,137,000 or approximately $41,000 each. That was what the top 246 producers in Australia put directly into the government coffers. So it is not all one way. Even in this instance where a superphosphate bounty worth some $30m is to be paid to rural producers in Australia on an across the board basis, this amount is not so great when we consider the contribution which is being made by the top producers of Australia. One must remember that they are the people who are engaged basically in export industries. Surely, we rely and will continue to rely on the magnificent contribution that rural industries make to our export industries. That is what we are all about; we are a trading nation. I must say that the latest figures on our overseas trading position are far from good. In fact, if we were not getting considerable overseas investment into the country today we would be on the wrong side of the ledger. It is all right for the Labor Party, or people who wish to knock the rural industries, to say that the cost of supporting these industries is too high because our local conditions have basically forced them out of overseas markets. It is all right for them to say we do not need rural industries. It is true that one after another of our rural industries are getting into trouble and are not able to compete on the overseas markets. The point was made when we were discussing the canned fruit industries the other night that eventually we will have to contract the operations of our rural industries. But do not tell me that after a little while the people of Australia will not find out that they cannot cat iron ore. 
There is no doubt that vast sections of our rural industries are in difficulties. I am not suggesting that after the last 3 years of Labor administration there are not other sections of the community in difficulties. We have had a number of reports from the Industries Assistance Commission which were commissioned by the Labor Government in the last few years. The IAC report on new land farmers is dated 21 May 1975. The report entitled 'Rural Income FluctuationsCertain Taxation Measures', is dated 30 June 1975. 
More recently, the interim report on superphosphate was published on 31 July 1975, and the rural reconstruction report was published on 13 January 1976. If one reads these reports one will find that they back up what I have just said. They suggest that the rural industries are in difficulties and that certain measures should be taken to overcome those difficulties. The reports are sympathetic towards the rural industries. The reports published last year were not acted upon by the previous administration. 
The report on rural reconstruction is a recent report and will, thank goodness, be taken into consideration by this administration. It is not only the reports that back up what I say. One only has to go out into the field to see what has happened to the beef industry, the dairy industry and the fruit industry. Very few sections of those rural industries are viable today. The grain industry is keeping its nose in front. Vast sections of the wool industry will become unviable if the latest demands of the unions in relation to the wages and conditions of shearers are implemented, or even if half of them are implemented. If one goes out into the field one finds what is happening in the rural industries. My own area- much of which has been developed in the last 20 years- carries a debt load that the older established areas in the eastern States do not carry. I know that because of rising costs and because of the debt load, a lot of people involved in the grain and wool industries are just about ready to fall apart. They will not be able to continue. It is a sad day when we see this happening to the rural industries in Australia. 
-That is quite right. The rural industries of Australia did not wish this set of conditions upon themselves. Those involved in the rural industries are regarded and known as being the most efficient farmers in the world. That is an accident of fate to a degree because we operate in a dry land farming situation in Australia. Many of the big rural food and fibre producing countries have climatic conditions that are nowhere near as kind to the producer as are Australian conditions. Besides that, we have increased our efficiency dramatically during the last few years. We cannot really blame the producer for the conditions that prevail today. Perhaps the expectations of the Australian people of shorter working hours, more pay and a much bigger slice of the cake have forced up the whole cost structure. 
The tariff situation in Australia initially was quite right and proper. Its purpose was to get our secondary industries off the ground so that we would have a manufacturing section within Australia. As the years have gone by, tariffs have increasingly gone up. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  today pointed out that the subsidy equivalent of protection in the motor car industry is $4,000 per employee per year. We have been engaged in the motor car industry for a number of years now but we seem to be getting worse instead of better at it. It is estimated that tariffs deprive the meat producers, the grain producers and the wool producers of Australia of $543m in revenue each year. I am not one of those people who want to bash the manufacturing area. I appreciate that people have to be employed and that this is a time of unemployment. But I would like to see more rapid consideration of our tariff situation, with a review conducted to investigate the idea of giving efficient industries, especially export industries, the opportunities they deserve. One must recognise though that if secondary industry in Australiathat includes our manufacturing industriesgets this type of support, it will act against the export industries. Basically, the export industries have to pick up the tab and they have to operate on world markets. One side of industry receives slender assistance from governments and the other side receives massive assistance. I want to see recognition of the fact that the export industries of Australia, and the rural industries are foremost amongst those - 
Yes, 65 percent. The rest of the community should recognise that the tariff structure is putting a burden upon the export industries. Circumstances in Australia today mitigate against rural industry, and in the short term that industry wants some type of assistance to survive, to enable it to be a contributor to the good life of Australians. It may be in another 2 years' time, or whenever demand comes back. There should be an understanding of why rural industry should be assisted and assistance should be given willingly by the rest of the community. 
Western Australia is one of the foremost users in Australia of superphosphate. By comparison with the rest of the continent it probably has a fairly small rural and agricultural area, but it uses about one third of the superphosphate that is used in Australia. We Western Australians have found it extremely difficult - 
It was very economic land when it was opened up. It is only the increase in costs and tariffs and so on that has got is into trouble now. Before I leave this subject I should say that I recognise that world conditions are affecting our rural industries. I realise that the problem is not only internal. Ever since the world oil crisis came about we have had problems keeping our existing markets. Ever since the member countries of the European Economic Community put their heads together and produced mountains of butter one year and mountains of casein the next year and mountains of beef the following year, our trade has been disrupted. We do not seem to have developed the brains or ability to trade with the hungry people of the world. We still try to supply overglutted markets, and it concerns me greatly that we cannot find a method of trading with the hungry nations. 
Statistics I saw recently indicate that it costs $200 billion to arm the world. That is a large sum of money- almost more than I can contemplatebut that is what it costs the whole world to arm itself. When one considers what Australia spends on defence, and what the Middle East countries or Britain or America or Russia spend on defence, one can understand why the amount spent on armaments in the world today would be $200 billion. If the world leaders had the brains and ability to put their heads together, they would require somewhere in the vicinity of $5 billion to make sure that the whole world was fed adequately. That is $5 billion against the $200 billion that is spent on armaments. I make that point as an aside. It is something that does concern me. 
I said earlier that Western Australia relies heavily on superphosphate, but in the last 3 years the cost of superphosphate has risen from about $26 a ton to more than $60 a ton. As to the tariff situation in Western Australia 90 per cent of that State's products are sold in fiercely competitive world markets, without a protective wall of tariffs. Basically Western Australia is a primary producing area. It has been said by the Opposition: 'If it is too hot in the kitchen, get out. ' I do not believe that this country can survive or will ever be any good if it does not maintain a viable rural industry. In the future Australia will be one of the food and fibre bowls of the world. 
Honourable members appreciate that the bounty we are debating today will be of only marginal assistance to the rural industries. It is a bounty that can be introduced quickly and, I believe, as fairly as any bounty can be introduced across the board. It will be of assistance to a great many producers within the country. It will give us time to investigate, to look at the reports that have been put before us by the Industries Assistance Commission and to get on with the job of proper planning and reconstruction of our industries if that is required. 
One other thing that I would like to say before I conclude is that the increases in the cost of superphosphate have made or should make us have a very good look at the alternatives and investigate the use of other sources of phosphate such as basic slag, ground rock phosphate and phosphate rock with impurities in it unacceptable at the moment. At State and Federal levels more work must be done in assessing the needs of the soils. Many of our agricultural soils have a significantly high acid level measured as a pH factor and there is in these soils a rate of fixation. 'Fixation' is the term used when phosphate combines with iron or aluminium, is tied up or fixed and becomes unavailable as a plant food. Urgent research and practical field work should he undertaken to see that the high cost superphosphate is utilised. Continuing and urgent work should be carried out on soil needs an/or crop needs. Soil testing and research into soil testing should be greatly increased. It is more than a possibility that much of our superphosphate is wasted because the soil or the crop needs a trace element of some description or other rather than superphosphate. The possibilities and the depth of organic farming should be looked at. It is carried out successfully in many areas. The study of it should be more widely accepted. One hopes that research will be done and that a greater understanding will come about. I believe that the use of perennials should be encouraged. As honourable members know, they are deep rooted and bring up different trace elements from the depth. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It refers to the profit or surplus of the Australian Telecommunications Commission which was reported to be $160m in a full year. Why is this body not authorised or compelled to use the loan market, as do many semi-governmental bodies, to provide money for capital works? Why should today's users have to meet increased charges to provide for future capital works and services? Why should people in outlying areas be required to pay prohibitive amounts for the installation of a basic essential, the telephone, which will be used for many years to come? 
-I remind the honourable member for Evans of the motion before the Chair. 
-A debate on the establishment of a committee such as this one on public expenditure is a reasonably wide-ranging debate. Some latitude can be given to speakers in such a debate. But direct criticism, as was raised earlier by a member of the Australian Labor Party on a point of order in regard to the people outside this chamber today, is something different. I ask the honourable member for Evans to keep in mind what we have before us. 
There will be occasions where programs being examined by the Committee are delivered through State and/or local governments . . . 
I suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that any local government funding that is being examined by a public expenditure committee of this House or, indeed, any State House would be concerned with the misuse of ratepayers' money. This committee is being established for that very reason. What more blatant waste of the ratepayers' money could there be than there has been in the electorate of Ashfield, where the Mayor has utilised the mayoral car and driver to deliver political material on a door to door basis. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Ruling on the point of order raised by the honourable member for Shortland, I believe that it has more than a degree of substance in it. Once again I ask the honourable member for Evans to address himself to the motion before the Chair. 
-I think that we have canvassed this matter fairly well. I have asked the honourable member for Evans to contain himself to a degree. I did say earlier that it was quite possible for this to be a very wide-ranging debate, but, in relation to the subject of local government, I think it was pointed out by the Prime Minister in moving the motion before the Chair that there is a degree of difference between the different forms of government. Anyhow, let us try again. I ask the honourable member for Evans to continue. 
It is really pleasing to me to know that I have attracted such a large part of the Opposition's attention. As a matter of fact, I have drawn a few of its members into the House. I classify the wasting and blatant misuse of federal funds, Commonwealth dollars, as shameful, disgusting and repulsive. The establishment of this committee will in fact ensure that Commonwealth funds are not misused. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)The honourable member's time has expired. Does the honourable member for Sydney wish to continue with his point of order? 

 Mr ABEL (Evans)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I also welcome the opportunity to enter into this debate which gives us the chance to have a far ranging discussion on tariffs generally. The tariff problem has always been with us. It has been with us for generations. In fact, I came across an interesting petition that was presented by French candlemakers in 1845 to the honourable members of the Chamber of Deputies. It went this way: 
We are subjected to the intolerable competition of a foreign rival, who enjoys, it would seem, such superior facilities for the production of light, that he is enabled to inundate our national market at so exceedingly reduced a price, that, the moment he makes his appearance, he drives off all custom for us . . . This rival is no other than the sun. Our petition is that it would please your honourable body to pass a law whereby shall be directed the shutting up of all windows, dormers, skylights, shutters, curtains, in a word, all openings, holes, chinks and fissures through which the light of the sun is used to penetrate into our dwellings, to the prejudice of the profitable manufacturers which we flatter ourselves we have enabled to bestow upon the country. 
So we see that the seeking of protection is not anything strange or new. It is not strange or new that when different industries seek protection today we seem to be at loggerheads. However, that petition would appear to me to have been quite extraordinary even for those days. 
After hearing the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and having listened fairly attentively to the debate to date, I realise that we are confronted with a very diverse subject. I realise also that we are in agreement on many issues. I think that we are in agreement more as individuals within parties rather than as representatives of the areas from which we come. There are 2 extremes to the tariff spectrum which 
Tariffs were originally imposed to redistribute income from the rural sector to the non-rural sector, for a number of reasons which I have outlined. It is time to ask whether governmental direction to the economy, through tariff protection, has achieved the desired result. The performance of the chemical industry, for one, would suggest not. Over the years there has been too little appreciation of the fact that policies benefiting the import sector, through their own efforts, produce their own effects on the export sector. In the current economic climate it is the indirect kicks to the export sector basically from the manufacturing industries that are the most difficult things to take and to weather. The rural industries are now paying too much for the product of protected industries. I carry on with my previous example. Protection to the Australian chemical industry resulted in an increase in the cost to farmers of chemical fertilisers. 
Another obvious hardship to the rural industries is the cost of labour. Astronomical increases in wages in manufacturing industries have been passed on to the farmer. The Industries Assistance Commission, in its annual report for 1973-74, calculated that labour costs to the manufacturing industries in 1973-74 were 28 per cent higher than they would have been without protection. These costs add up to a situation in which we are pricing ourselves out of rural export industries. In the present economic climate the rural export industries just cannot handle the situation. Is it not time the fatted calf was weaned and made to stand alone before it drags down the condition of the ever giving good old cow? With the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  looking at me, I certainly would not lay claim to fame for that phrase. 
The example of the chemical industry demonstrates the dangers of allowing the Government, not the market place, to define what is economic and efficient. There should be a continual review of the tariff situation. I certainly am not advocating a free trade situation but a continual, serious review by the IAC with the conviction of the 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 29 April 1976 REPRESENTATIVES 1805 
What are the reasons which cause us to override the removal of tariffs and so the economic efficiency of the country as a whole? Our tariff policies originated in the 19th century when the economy was dependent on rural industries. These policies were developed firstly for diversification of industry and consequent less dependence on fluctuating rural income; and secondly, because of the need to absorb and employ a growing population. These criteria have been deemed sufficiently important to maintain protection against import competing industries. But we must face the fact that over the last 100 years conditions have altered. Vast mineral discoveries have diversified the economy and eliminated recurrent balance of payment problems. In 1972-73, income from mining industry represented 4 per cent of the gross domestic product in Australia, an increase of 127 per cent over the previous 10 years. In comparison the income from the agricultural, forestry and fishing industries represented 8 per cent of the gross domestic product at that time, a decrease of 37 per cent over the previous 10 years. 
The infant secondary industries of 50 years ago should now be on their feet, but are they? A number of economists have analysed the development of the chemical industry in Australia as it has performed under protection. A specialist in industrial economies from Sydney University,  Mr T.  Parry, has produced an index of price ratios over major chemical products, taking Australia's position relative to the position of the United Kingdom and the United States of America. He took 1955-56 price ratios as the base of 100 and found as follows: 

<graphic href="099131197604294_74_0.jpg"></graphic>

Government behind it. Under these conditions there should be continued support for the export industries of Australia which are the life blood of Australia. There should be an understanding of the economic situation in Australia and of what it is doing to the export industries. 
I would like to have a brief look at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and on its workings. Working, I believe on a quite different scale, for freedom in the market place is GATT. In 1948 Australia was one of 23 countries which signed the Agreement in an effort to help lessen the impact of trade restrictions as a potential cause of international conflict. Over the past 28 years GATT's membership has risen to eightyseven. Estimates show that GATT's members have four-fifths of all international trade. This makes it the most important international body concerned with negotiating the reduction of international trade barriers. 
The reduction of tariffs is one of the principal means of attaining GATT's broad objectives. There have been 6 main tariff negotiating conferences and, as a result of these conferences, the tariff rates for tens of thousands of items entering the world's commerce have been bound by the terms of the treaty against increases. The sixth negotiating conference, known as the Kennedy Round, reduced the average level of world industrial tariffs by about one-third. As a result of the Kennedy Round, Australia undertook to reduce tariffs on goods worth $137m, or about 4 per cent of its merchandise imports. In all, reductions in tariffs overseas applied to some $400m worth of Australian exports- about 13 per cent of the total. Since 1967, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on non-tariff distortions to trade, such as import quotas and export licensing. These become more important as tariffs fall. A system of reports by GATT members on nontariff interference against them by other countries was established in November 1967. 
The expectation prior to the 1973 Tokyo Round was that the non-tariff barriers would be the main matters negotiated. These, of course, are far more difficult to negotiate and police. In what is now called the 1 973 Tokyo Round the 87 trading nations agreed to undertake, within the framework of GATT, the most ambitious and wide-ranging round of trade negotiations in the post-war era. Australia welcomed these multilateral trade negotiations in 1973. Her interest was directed towards agricultural trade liberalisation and reduction of non-tariff barriers. This was because import restrictions and variable levies block off the overseas markets for much of our agricultural production and Australia has few manufactured exports which would benefit from overseas tariff reduction. It is important for Australia to work for the reduction of agricultural trade barriers as well as industrial tariff cuts so that she will not be subject to the painful economic and social adjustments that may result from the adoption of the latter without increases in export earnings. 
Some concern has been expressed, notably by the Australian Industries Development Association, that Australia might have dissipated its negotiating coin by its 25 per cent tariff cut in July 1973. The Australian position is not necessarily as bad as it looks in the continuing rounds. There are 2 reasons for this: The first is that a base date is set for negotiations. Australia has declared that the base date to which she will hold is 1 January 1973; that is, before the 25 per cent tariff cut. If this stand is successful, then the 25 per cent tariff cut will stand as an initiative which must be matched by other nations rather than as negotiating coin which has been lost to her. Secondly, because of inefficiencies under current tariff rates it should be possible to make tariff cuts with a sector-by-sector approach which would leave large proportions of Australian industries unaffected. The Tokyo Round was tied to the principle of reciprocity, and Australia should not consider further cuts unless she can be sure of gaining a trade-off. 
Granted, the areas about which Australia is most concerned in negotiations are non-tariff barriers, particularly in agricultural trade. Our great trading partners of the past, Great Britain and Europe, have put up impossible barriers against trade with Australian commodities such as beef, apples and grain. The policies that are followed within countries which are members of the European Economic Community have precluded us. They are non-tariff barriers which have to be negotiated through multilateral trade agreements. 
I suggest that we cannot afford not to review our own highly protected sectors within our own country without obtaining a reputation for being a little less than fair. It would be very selfish to hope that GATT should achieve international free trade without accommodating countries less fortunate than ourselves, but it is encouraging to observe that GATT, through persistent negotiation, is working to remove trade barriers to the efficient order of the international market place. We should take a lesson from GATT and return to the Australian situation. I realise that there are cases for protection where reasons other than economic efficiency demand that the Australian Government give direction to the flow of trade. 
In general I maintain that the Australian Government, like GATT, should aspire to a passive not an active role in regulating the market place. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask: What progress has been made in establishing a rural bank as outlined in the joint election policy of the Liberal and National Country parties? Can the Treasurer indicate when it will be introduced? 
I shall take up a point or two raised by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  He spoke about the inaction of the LiberalCountry Party Government for 23 years in not moving towards reconstruction of the fruit industry. He spoke as though the last 3 years had not occurred and there had not been another government during that time.  His  last point was about young people coming to the city of Canberra and enjoying the life that they are now leading. 
-Young people or old people. They are enjoying their new vocation. We must keep in mind that, although they may be doing that, the productive force for the true production of Australia is declining all the time. The honourable member said that the number of people living in rural areas today is down to about 6 per cent or 8 per cent. It is not only in the fruit industry but throughout our rural industries. One wonders whether our economy is not suffering badly as a result. 
I was interested to see in the Melbourne  Herald  of Monday, 3 May, an editorial which pointed out a couple of things which I believe the city dwellers do not really understand. I will read sections of it. It stated: 
Farmers and their families are suffering badly, and not even the most blinkered city dweller can dismiss this as the 'cockies whingeing again '. 
It also stated: 
Quite apart from the effects on Australia of a loss of export income, the crisis on the farms is thus bad news for the cities as well. 
The need for both short term and long term action grows acutely. 
It was a definite recognition of the situation in Australia today, where our export earning industries have been forced out of world markets. So, our standard of living will suffer, regardless of people taking up and enjoying new vocations in the cities. 
These Bills are the result, I suppose, of the inquiry into the fruit industry by the Industries Assistance Commission and of its recommendations. I would like to commend the Industries Assistance Commission on the amount of work it has done for the rural industries and for the recommendations contained in its reports. That does not mean that I always agree entirely with the recommendations. In this instance the IAC recommended that there be a stabilisation component in the export market of some $4m for 2 million boxes of apples consigned to traditional markets. Even under the constraints of the budgetary situation the Government saw fit to increase that amount by $500,000 which is to be divided on a $1 for $1 basis amongst the States. Whilst these measures will be passed I can assure honourable members that the proposal is far below the expectations of the industry. The industry would like to have seen at least 3 million boxes or more covered by that amount. In fact the industry points out that if the fruit exported to traditional markets were to be covered by the same amount as last year, which was $1.30, taking into consideration increased costs and charges to the industry, the equivalent subsidy for the industry would need to be $3.20 per box to all at risk markets. With rising costs as well as increased freight and insurance charges this year's assistance is well below that which the industry received last year. 
As has been pointed out, the state of the industry is depressing. It has gone through a period of rationalisation and reconstruction costing far more than the amount of government assistance received. In 1970 Australia proudly exported about 7 million boxes of apples overseas. In 1975 we were exporting 4.4 million boxes. In that period the production of apples in Australia has altered from a position where 70 per cent went to the local market and 30 per cent were exported to a position now where 80 per cent are for the local market and 20 per cent are exported. No one will deny that the industry is in dire straits. The additional $500,000 which is to be given to the industry is not included in the Bills which we are debating but it will be included later in the Appropriation Bills. I believe that the Government could offer additional assistance for fruit to at risk markets. 
I do not see the rationale behind the recommendation of the IAC for new markets when the exporters are really battling to get into the Singapore and North American markets. Considering that there must be a phasing out of our traditional markets, it would be an ideal opportunity to give these growers and exporters some form of assistance. They are going through a period of adjustment and reconstruction. The industry is doing this because of economic necessity. The farmers who are being ground up by the system and who must seek government assistance are only a small percentage of the industry. The future of the industry does not look good. 
I would like to spend a few minutes discussing the recommendation of the IAC for reconstruction. Farmers have to plan their orchards now. As one season finishes a new one begins. The IAC recommends price support for next year of only $1 per box for at risk traditional markets. I can assure honourable members that if that course is adopted no fruit will be exported from Western Australia to the traditional markets. I am not familiar with the cost structure of the industry in the great exporting State of Tasmania. With rises in costs, even today if only $ 1 were offered for the traditional markets the Western Australian fruit grower would not be able to export with dire consequences for the local market. 
Another recommendation is that the tree-pull scheme that has been in operation for the last few years be extended for this year only. I will discuss that in a moment First let me touch on the main recommendation which is to set up area redevelopment authorities. The whole thrust of the reconstruction is built around the area redevelopment authorities. They will cover counselling services, concessional finance provided in difficult conditions, and assistance provided for the removal of trees and vines which, if not properly maintained, could harbour diseases and pests. Reading the recommendations and endeavouring to understand what would eventuate if they were implemented I come to the conclusion knowing the speed with which any type of government works, that by the time people are trained, and by the time the area redevelopment authorities are organised it will be too late for the next season- I am not too sure of their value anyway- another season and a number of months will have passed which will be full of uncertainty for the people involved in the industry. These people need to know what the Government intends to do. 
Let me come back to the tree-pull scheme. I concede that for a number of years we have had a stabilisation scheme and we have had a treepull scheme, but I suggest that in these measures we have not gone far enough with either scheme. Basically the stabilisation scheme has kept most producers in poverty or just hanging on and the tree-pull scheme has not been attractive enough to get them out of that situation. Today we are in much the same situation as we were in a number of years ago. I believe we must continue with these parts of assistance- stabilisation and reconstructionbut the tree-pull scheme should be made a lot more attractive. It would be offset in a very short time by the Government's not having to spend so much on stabilisation. 
The apple industry is a good and worthwhile industry. We are exporting to countries other than our traditional markets, but the industry needs to be rationalised and, unfortunately, production needs to be curtailed. Therefore I suggest that we should have a tree-pull scheme which would not be subject to a means test. That may be a little awkward for the Government but at least there could be a liberalised means test to make the scheme attractive. If the idea is to reduce the production of apples in this country, for goodness sake let us have a scheme that makes it attractive for people to pull out thentrees and so reduce production. I believe that this is imperative and that the Government will have to make some firm decisions quickly. 
There are also pockets of depression within our rural industries and, I suppose, not only within our apple industries, where one must suggest that some sort of a welfare payment be considered. It is also recommended in the Industries Assistance Commission report that for at least 12 months people should receive something like the unemployment benefit. But in some areas people are living in dire poverty without any way to get out. I believe that in this country today, where most sections of the community get this type of assistance, because the rural producer who is supposedly self-employed cannot get this type of assistance, it is imperative that we as a government assist him to live in some type of dignity and set a period from now to enable him to get out of the industry. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the industrial dispute centred around one Roger Dracup in Busselton, Western Australia? Is it a fact that  Mr Dracup  is acting within his rights by not joining the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union? Is there anything that the Minister can do to see that this man's rights as an individual will be safeguarded? Finally, I understand that a compulsory conference called by Commissioner Payne will be held today in an endeavour to resolve the situation. If this is unsuccessful, as the 2 previous conferences have been, what is the likely outcome of the situation? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of a situation in Western Australia where 8 plumbers have been suspended from their union for a period of 6 months? Is it true that the union also forced their employer to sack them because they are no longer union members? What can be done for people such as these men who have broken no law and whose only crime was that they wanted to work and who now are unemployed? What can be done to protect union members from the abuse of power by union officials? 

Order! 
I ask the Prime Minister: When will the Government complete its review of Aboriginal services and revise expenditure on Aboriginal welfare, as foreshadowed by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech last week? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the increasing number of Australians, particularly young Australians, who are being arrested overseas on drug offences? What action can the Government take to ensure that these Australians are not being held in unsatisfactory gaols for long periods without trial? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="100131197609096_73_2.jpg"></graphic>

are that the subsidy for the State Dockyard alone in 1976-77 is $6,291 per man. The projection for 1978-79 shows a drop to $3,381 per man. But based on the whole labour force throughout Australia projections show that the subsidy will 

<graphic href="100131197609096_73_2.jpg"></graphic>

drop from $3,812 per man in 1976-77 to $2,049 in 1978-79. These are the facts that were presented to the LAC. They have not been challenged. They expose the extent to which the Liberal-National Country Party Ministers will go to try to justify the things which they do. Another thing they got up to was saying that the ships were going to cost $100m. Why does the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  not look at the real figures? They are available for him to examine the same as they were for me when I was Minister for Transport. In July 1975 the price of the ships was $67.8m and not $100m. Ministers should not tell lies. At least they should be prepared to tell the truth. I know that that is something that they find extremely difficult to do. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
Sure, the Australian industry is inefficient at the moment. Basically it is inefficient because the New South Wales Liberal-National Country Party Government was not prepared to do anything about it, to put money into it and to build it up so as to make it competitive. The main machinery there was taken from the Walsh Island dockyard which closed in 1933. That just shows the garbage we have to put up with from the Government of this country. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Alcohol is the greatest present threat to the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory and unless strong immediate action is taken they could destroy themselves. 
They indicate the great concern of the Committee at the effects of alcohol on the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. It is because of this concern that members of the Committee, following their first inspections and public hearings, unanimously decided to present an interim report so as to inform the Parliament, the Government and the Australian public of the seriousness of the position. 
The causes of alcohol abuse among Aboriginals are many and varied. They are discussed in the report. The Committee received evidence that in some Aboriginal communities a great majority of the males are very heavy drinkers and indulge in regular binges. The proportion of income spent on alcohol by Aboriginals appears to be very high. In some cases the proportion could be as high as SO per cent and the regular expenditure could be up to $50 per adult per week. The effects of this alcohol abuse is of great concern to the Committee. The situation, of course, varies between communities. The Committee received a lot of evidence that drunkenness results in lighting and brawling often leading to severe physical injuries and, in some cases, death. Property is destroyed. Women are severely beaten and families neglected. Health and education services break down. Aboriginals in traditional areas have had no experience with alcohol and, therefore, have not developed mechanisms or tribal sanctions covering its abuse. All this has led to a breakdown in traditional authority and the discipline of clan elders. 
The Committee recognises the enormity of the task facing the Government and the Aboriginal people themselves in overcoming the severe drinking problems of some Aboriginal communities. In this regard the Committee is encouraged that some Aboriginal groups are aware of the dangers of alcohol abuse and that they are doing something about it. The movement away from the main settlements by some groups to their traditional land, not necessarily to get away from alcohol abuse, is probably the most important step that has been taken and should be encouraged. Some communities have prohibited the importation of liquor, others have imposed quotas, whilst still others have confined the sale of liquor to beer. Some communities have also established licensed clubs as a means of controlling alcohol consumption. Attempts have also been made by some communities to impose their own discipline. 
The Committee strongly believes that each Aboriginal community should make its own decision as to whether alcohol should or should not be permitted on a settlement. Once a decision has been taken the Committee is strongly of the view that enforcements of that decision should be supported by all resources of law. Should a community decide to ban alcohol every effort should be made by the Government to assist the community in enforcing that decision. At present, in cases where a community has banned the importation of alcohol or imposed rationing, large quantities are being brought in, mainly by charter aircraft or taxi. The Committee believes that the law should be amended to stop this practice. Should a community decide to allow the consumption of liquor, the Committee believes that a licensed club should hold the only liquor licence within that community. Such a club should provide for the sale of nutritious food and amenities. There will need to be strict supervision of the operation of the clubs and the legislation will need to be amended to provide for special guidelines and conditions applicable to them. Present legislation provides for individuals to be issued with personal liquor permits to import liquor onto reserves and missions. The Committee received evidence of the abuse of this system. Because of this abuse and as there would be no need for such permits under each of the options open to Aboriginals communities as mentioned above, the Committee believes that the personal liquor permit system should be abolished. A dissent on this aspect by three of my colleagues is attached to the report. 
Whilst Aboriginals themselves have taken some steps to alleviate the situation, the Committee notes with concern that there appears to be little activity on the part of government departments. This is despite the preparation of a number of reports on the subject which, in the Committee's view, if implemented would also go some way towards alleviating the situation. The most important of these reports is one which recommended a large number of amendments to the outdated Northern Territory Licensing Ordinance. This report was presented in mid- 1973 and little has been done to implement its recommendations. 
The Committee has also made recommendations for the recruitment and training of police, that alcohol education programs be speeded up, that meaningful employment be given to Aboriginals, that accurate statistics be maintained on a regular and continuing basis at Aboriginal settlements, and that a drug and alcohol authority be established in the Northern Territory. The Committee has also recommended that an interdepartmental committee, chaired by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, be established in the Northern Territory to implement and coordinate programs aimed at reducing the alcohol problems of Aboriginals. 
There are other aspects of the problem on which the Committee has not made conclusive findings. The Committee is continuing its inquiry into the State aspects and its conclusions will be embodied in the final report. The recommendations of this interim report are aimed at retrieving the situation in the Northern Territory in the short term. The Committee is anxious that its recommendations be acted upon with the utmost expedition in view of the urgency of the situation, and commends them to the Government and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for their attention. 
-by leave-I think my colleagues on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs have covered quite adequately the interim report and have explained why we brought down an interim report to the Parliament. I wish to take up one small point in the report which has not been emphasised to any degree by my colleagues. Recommendation 13 states:   an interdepartmental committee, chaired by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, be established in the Northern Territory and that it co-ordinate all the action necessary to implement programs aimed at reducing the alcohol problems of the Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, including the recommendations in this report. 
There are 2 advisory committees in the 4 departments that are mainly concerned with this problem in the Northern Territory today. My colleagues and I were concerned at the lack of co-ordination and consultation amongst those 4 departments. After visiting numerous communities in the Northern Territory I am appalled at the lack of co-ordination and planning by those 4 departments of the Government not only in relation to alcohol-related problems but in relation to all matters affecting communities including the building of facilities or the planning of communities. There is certainly not enough cooperation. It is not unusual to find in a community a new council chamber, a new government store and new nursing quarters erected without any consultation with the community as to its needs. On one community those 3 things are standing there, brand spanking new, and have no relationship to the needs of the community. The councillors do not wish to use the airconditioned council chamber, the government store has nothing to speak of in it, and the nursing sister wishes to live where she is in a very comfortable home. A tremendous amount of money has been spent on one community. It has no relationship to the needs of that community. That happened to a lot of the money which the Government spent on Aboriginal affairs over the last few years. The community which I mentioned was in desperate need of adequate toilet facilities and additional housing to bring it up to a reasonable standard. Yet this amount of money has been wasted. My plea is that the Government take special notice of this recommendation. It is by no means the most important recommendation, but it is a very significant one. I urge the Government to take special notice of the lack of planning and co-ordination and the overlap of departments, to bring some sort of efficiency and sense into the planning of communities in the Northern Territory. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  makes much of the commitment to the rural sector made by this Government prior to the 1975 Federal election. The impossible financial position in which this country was left after 3 years of Labor administration has presented this Government with the major task of reducing inflation. In the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry this year we find not an outlay, but a contribution of $25m to the exchequer. A close study of the estimates will show that this contribution has occurred because the wool industry has been able to pay back a substantial part of a Commonwealth Government loan made to it in 1974-75. This was not a hand-out, as many people in the electorate at large have represented it but a loan in the true commercial sense. It was a loan which provided a much needed dose of confidence in the wool industry during a period of market instability. 
It is a sad fact that not all our rural commodities are suited to receiving financial assistance by way of ordinary borrowings, but I commend the Commonwealth Government for providing rural assistance where possible through loans, not hand-outs. Loans do more for the dignity of the rural businessman than hand-outs ever will. Because of a combination of adverse markets, dry seasonal conditions and . high inflation rates, there are several pockets of depression across the pastoral areas of Australia which are much in need of government assistance and direction. In Western Australia there are serious problems in 24 shires which cover the area from Geraldton to Merredin which is approximately 150 miles east of Perth. In Victoria 135 out of" 151 shires are affected- nearly the whole State. In New South Wales the areas covered by 21 Pastures Protection Boards have been declared drought areas. In 
South Australia 35 out of 49 countries are affected by severe drought conditions. Substantial rain in the last few weeks has brought relief and some hope to many of these areas but of course it has not altered the need for the provision of assistance now; it has not wiped out the hardships suffered while the drought conditions prevailed. 
Many of the farmers in drought-stricken areas to whom I have spoken say that they are most in need of low interest short-term loans to cover farm operations through the crisis period. I am happy to hear that the Western Australian and South Australian Governments have now acted to provide carry-on loans. The Victorian and New South Wales Governments, on the other hand, have been deplorably lax in not taking steps to alleviate the severe financial dehydration of almost all Victorian and New South Wales farmers. No carry-on loans are available in those States. The Commonwealth, since the Budget was presented, has announced a generous openended funding intention for carry-on loans once the States have used up their base amount for national disaster relief. It has also offered an alternative funding arrangement based on a dollar-for-dollar contribution. In the light of unlimited funding possibilities it is hard to understand the inaction of the Victorian and New South Wales Governments. Surely repayable loans are a form of assistance preferable to subsidies and other forms of hand-outs. 
This recurring necessity for drought assistance over the years highlights the potential for the income equalisation deposit scheme. Deposits lodged from a year of high returns will be deducted from the assessable income of that year. They will collect interest at 5 per cent and will not be included in assessable income until the year they are withdrawn. Such tax-free money tucked away will enable farmers better to withstand a year of unusually poor returns. I hope the scheme will provide in good years an attractive investment alternative to often unnecessary and unwise purchases of equipment and land as a tax dodge. People on the land should understand all too well the fluctuating nature of their incomes. The income equalisation scheme will provide a realistic opportunity for self-sufficiency through bad times as well as good. 
When drought conditions prevail in Australia the earth is scorched, livestock has to be slaughtered, crops stay in the paddock, and hardship is obvious. But the most dogged and persistent thorn in the side of the farmer is not an obvious circumstance like drought. It is an inflated high cost structure. High freight rates, equipment charges, handling charges at terminals, killing charges and high wages mean that the rural industries, both export industries and small import industries, are threatened with cheap overseas products. As I look for the cause of this high cost structure I am not about to indulge in a round of union bashing. The 'what can I get for nothing' attitude is a general malaise in our society. We can all afford to take a look inward and inquire about the responsibility of our work attitudes. Here I refer to management, business, unions and farmers. We should look inside ourselves and ask whether we are doing a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and whether we are carrying out a responsibility towards our nation and the generations of Australians to come. 
In the time remaining to me I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to the effect of this high cost structure oh some of our smaller import-competing horticultural industries. Some industries at present being threatened by cheap imports and by a high cost structure at home are the apple industry, the canned fruit industry, the dried fruit industry, the onion industry, the mushroom industry, the citrus industry and the raspberry industry. There are many more. I would like to detail the history of one of these industries, the mushroom industry, to show the dangerous pattern which emerges. In 1974-75 supplies of mushrooms, canned in brine and dehydrated, were imported from Asia. This affected the relatively small outlet for Australian mushrooms grown for this market. It caused the rejection of Austraiian crops and the downgrading of prices received by those who found local markets. In the financial year ended 30 June 1974 imports of mushrooms represented, in value terms, approximately 25 per cent of the total Australian market for mushrooms of all types. In May 1975 the Government marginally increased protection of the industry as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. Of course, mushrooms from New Zealand remained duty free. 
At the time of the IAC inquiry dissenting Commissioner Cossar believed that the IAC recommendations underestimated the injury to the industry and predicted severe under-confidence if the imports continued to flood in. This is what has happened. At present there is a marked vacuum. Imports have become scarce and expensive. Canneries are now encouraging the Australian growers to increase production to meet projected demand for the 1977 season. At the same time the canneries are meeting present demand with imports of fresh mushrooms from 
New Zealand, paying 10c a pound more than the local growers receive. When their livelihood is so obviously at the mercy of imports, who could expect the mushroom growers to invest with confidence? The canners in turn claim that they import produce only at a time of shortfall in the local market, but at present there is no guarantee of their good intentions for the growers. Grower confidence is the problem, and we must now decide whether we want to keep in Australia these small though long-standing industries such as the mushroom industry, which are suffering from an abnormally high cost structure. The mere fact that they are having trouble competing with overseas markets does not mean that the importcompeting horticultural industries are inefficient, especially by Australian standards. I will take the mushroom industry as an example again. In its report of 1 0 December 1 974 the IAC stated: 
The Commission was impressed by the efficiency of the industry, the high yields it has achieved and by the research it has carried out with very little assistance. 
At present overseas exporters have to compete with the price of horticultural produce in Australia. I believe that without these small efficient industries in Australia it would not be long before prices for overseas products would rise and we would be subject to the vagaries of a foreign source of supply. What happens if there are bad seasons in the supplying countries or if a foreign government drops its grower subsidy? The Australian consumer will pay if we allow to develop a situation in which we have none of these industries of our own. The ideal way in which to restore grower confidence is to reduce the high cost structure that is being brought about by inflation. I urge all Australians to show a little restraint to this end. If this does not happen in the near future the Government will have to decide whether these small industries are wanted. If the answer to that is yes then the answer to the lack of grower confidence must lie in the direction of import regulations. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

There is no real substance in the point of order. There has been a wide-ranging debate covering all environmental matters affecting the community. I call the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
Our final recommendation takes account of what we understand to be the policy of the Act under which the Inquiry was instituted. It is simply that there should be ample time for public consideration of this Report, and for debate upon it. We therefore recommend that no decision be taken in relation to the foregoing matters until a reasonable time has elapsed and there has been an opportunity for the usual democratic processes to function, including, in this respect, parliamentary debate. 
I am asking those Government members who support the Government's decision in respect to the Fraser Island report: Are they going to be consistent in relation to those recommendations? Are they going to make sure that there will be ample public debate before a decision is made in relation to the Fox inquiry? That is what I am challenging them on now. The Covernment cannot make a decision in relation to one inquiry commenced under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and then ignore the report of another environmental inquiry. We are seeking a public debate. We are seeking this debate to make sure that the issues are aired and that there is an open discussion. 
Having said that, let me say that I feel the Government has made a courageous decision. But I say clearly that all members of Parliament should come together to support the position of those workers affected and ensure that the whole Wide Bay region does not suffer from this historic decision. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the International Declaration on the Decade of Rehabilitation of the Disabled? What action does the Government propose in respect of the recommendations of the Declaration, particularly the statement that every government should take urgent action to expand and expedite the development of all services necessary to assist the disabled? 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The traditional 'national pact' between fairly equally balanced communities of Christians, Muslims and Druzes has disintegrated. Under the impact of 18 months of violence, vendetta and retribution, Lebanon's consensus has broken down. Factionalism, fears of genocide, and economic and social status disparities will make the reconciliation process very difficult. It is probable that disinterested care for the people of Lebanon by powers like Australia could neal a situation aggravated by powers which fish in troubled waters with the ultimate aim of territorial expansion or ideological influence. 
The human tragedy and devastation resulting from the Lebanon crisis is so immense that they create claims of great moral weight on other nations to take action to alleviate suffering. The number of dead may be as high as 60 000 with a further 200 000 wounded. These are casualties in a population of 3 million. Compare these figures with the 46 000 United States servicemen killed in Vietnam over 12 years and the disastrous impact of the war on a small state like Lebanon can be realised. 
Possibly a third of Lebanon's 3 million people have fled the country and there are many more homeless, wounded, sick and destitute within Lebanon. The Lebanese people are critically in need of assistance but aid programs have faced deliberate obstruction, corruption and immense physical difficulties including the chronic state of insecurity due to indiscriminate killing, and the complete breakdown of Lebanon's economy, communications, and service infrastructures. 
A necessary condition for the healing process in Lebanon is the cessation of all outside interference in a country which for many years has managed to live a much more prosperous existence than the non-oil producing Arab states. This outside intervention is initially and tragically attributable to the Palestinians. They came to Lebanon as refugees but have since adopted a disruptive role in Lebanon's internal affairs. Their interference in Lebanese politics, possibly at foreign behest and certainly with foreign support, constitutes abuse of Lebanese hospitality. Syria, Iraq, Libya and several other countries have intervened. Syria's intervention has been overt. Iraq's and Libya's intervention has been mainly through influence on the Palestinians, propaganda of intransigence, as well as money and 'volunteers'. Lebanon's Government may benefit from Syrian intervention, whatever Syria's motives. Iraq and Libya have tended to frustrate a solution to the Lebanon crisis. 
The existence of a recognised government authority in Lebanon, however disintegrated and impotent that Government's administrative structure may be, has contributed to a great reluctance by Australia as well as many other nations, to raise this issue of the tragedy of Lebanon, including foreign intervention in Lebanon, in international forums, such as the United Nations. This is despite the fact that there has been a clear breach of the United Nation's Charter, and despite a manifest threat to peace in the Middle East. This is not simply due to the apparent futility of taking such matters to the United Nations, but also in deference to the fact that world discussion and United Nations action would not be welcomed by some Arab states. Aid for the Lebanese people has been totally inadequate. This is in part because of an atmosphere of deceit surrounding the crisis. Leaders of the various participants, including those Arab states actively involved, want the United Nations to keep out. Therefore appeals for aid are minimal and people in flight have not been declared refugees by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The United Nations definition of what constitutes a refugee clearly applies to many uprooted from Lebanon and within Lebanon. 
The Committee does not believe that Australia has so far been particularly generous in the unhappy predicament of the Lebanese people. In the 9 months ending 30 September 1976 only 1835 Lebanese arrived in Australia. They were mostly close relatives of Australian resident Lebanese. We have sent no medical teams there, despite the fact that the International Red Cross has had only 16 doctors and nurses in Lebanon. The lack of adequate reaction by the International Committee of the Red Cross is one of the most depressing aspects of the crisis. There may be reasons for this, but the contrast with previous International Red Cross actions seems marked. The Committee has carefully considered the prospect of helping more Lebanese refugees into Australia and has made a number of recommendations in this regard. It has been particularly concerned that there should be a compassionate, effective and clear-cut refugee policy in Australia. The Committee believes that there will continue to be refugee situations in years to come and that Australia needs to develop an enlightened policy which would command the support of all political parties and the assent of enlightened opinion. 
In its consideration of the likely impact upon Australia of an increased number of Lebanese migrants, the Committee looked for any signs that the destructive factionalism of the Lebanon situation and the antagonism rampant in the Middle East generally were reflected to any extent in Australia- particularly in the media used by ethnic communities. The Committee was particularly concerned at the allegations against  1  Melbourne radio stations- 3CR and 3ZZ. It would appear that at times these stations have been guilty of incitement to hatred and gross misrepresentation without always granting an opportunity for reply. Although the Committee has received some evidence in this regard its work was hampered by an apparent lack of monitoring of both the English broadcasts of 3CR and the Arabic broadcasts of 3ZZ. The Committee has recommended that the proposed Australian Broadcasting Tribunal hold an inquiry into both ethnic and community access radio stations and that the Australian Broadcasting Commission take an active interest in the selection of qualified and responsible organising committees for ethnic radio stations. While the Committee does not wish to curtail the right of normal ' free speech it condemns the use of radio stations or ethnic newspapers and periodicals for creating hostility and inciting race, religious and ideological hatred between communities in this country. Australia should welcome refugees but not the importation of their quarrels. The Committee appreciates that when such incitement to conflict and contempt occurs it is invariably generated by a faction not representative of the ethnic community as a whole. 
The Committee has made 18 recommendations in its report. Many of these require urgent action such as: The sending of medical teams to Lebanon; government support for appeals by the International Red Cross and the World Food and Agricultural Organisations for urgent relief to Lebanon; the efficient and humane handling of applications from genuine refugees; the establishment of a diplomatic post including a migration team in Syria. Syria has enhanced its national influence, through its intervention in Lebanon, and has the bulk of Lebanese refugees within its borders and has increased in diplomatic significance. The Soviet Union sent its top leaders there recently. Australia is unrepresented. 
Before the Committee reports again to the Parliament on this reference early next year, the Committee hopes that significant progress will have been made towards the implementation of the recommendations in its interim report. They seem to be recommendations of logic and goodwill. I take this opportunity of thanking the large number of very good witnesses who have made this report possible. 
-It is not a matter on which the honourable member for Fremantle may make a decision. 
-The purpose of these Bills is to finance the Apple and Pear Corporation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech said: 
These legislative proposals give effect to the recommendations of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers' Association for a new basis of financing the activities of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. 
Much has been said about the method of collection of fees. I know that I have only a few moments in which to speak. I will slide over many things which I would have liked to have said tonight. Much has been said about deficiencies in the method of collecting this levy. It must be recalled that again in the Minister's second reading speech he stated: 
Honourable members may recall that proposals were before the Parliament, at the time ofthe double dissolution last year, for the Corporation to be financed from the proceeds of a levy on bearing areas of apple and pear trees. The apple and pear growing industry, having reconsidered this proposal- 
This is the industry itself- has confirmed its original view that it would prefer the levy to be based on the quantity of fruit marketed, both in Australia and overseas. 
I agree with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I recognise that there will be difficulties in the method of collection. But I believe that this is the most equitable method by which the levy can be collected. Nothing need last forever. If this system proves to be inefficient maybe the Government, which has been guided by the industry in the decisions which it has taken regarding the raising of this levy, can have another look at the matter. There is no reason why it cannot, although I appreciate that there will be difficulties. But once again I point out that the Government had been guided by the industry in this matter. Much has been said about the new Corporation, the members on it, and thenexpertise. One must remember that this is a new corporation. I think the proposals before us to finance the Corporation are more equitable and that they will lead to a sufficiency of money for that Corporation. This should lead to a noticeable marketing benefit. The extra funds will allow the Corporation to put the necessary effort into seeking and developing new markets overseas. Areas such as South East Asia undoubtedly hold the key to the industry's future and to its future viability in the export field. The extra funds will allow it seriously to build up the profitable home market for the first time. 
We all wish the apple industry of Australia a prosperous future. But we all must recognise the difficulties which confront it. I also say tonight that many growers in Western Australia feel that while the Government has been guided by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers' Association, they feel isolated from the Corporation. They believe that they should be under great scrutiny in the next year or so to see that they are carrying out a worthwhile endeavour. The levy which has been imposed may not seem like a lot of money but it must be remembered that the exporting States of Western Australia and Tasmania basically carried the old Australian Apple and Pear Board in years gone by. This is a more equitable system but they are the States which will keep the apple industry- I speak mainly of apples because that is my concern- on a proper footing. If the apple export industry of Australia fails the rest of the apple industry in Australia must fail. Some concern has also been expressed in my State of Western Australia. I have brought this to the attention of the Government before and I do so now. This concern comes from the Chamber of Fruit and Vegetable Industries of Western Australia. In a part of its letter it states: 
While the proposed collection process will not involve the grower or the Corporation in any cost, the cost to the community borne initially by agents and merchants will be high indeed and entirely out of proportion to the revenue raised. Collection of the levy on eachindividual transaction, the accounting for it and the remittance of the funds must, of necessity, be costly. 
I realise that my time has come to an end. I flag those 2 warnings to the Government. I have done so on other occasions. I take this opportunity to say again that we must keep the new structure under closer scrutiny. We must be prepared to look at the method of collection of levies to see that it is equitable, that it does work and that it is practical. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. How many secret ballots for union elections have been conducted under the Government's new secret ballot legislation? How many of these ballots have been conducted free of charge by the Commonwealth Electoral Office? Does the Prime Minister consider that this legislation will lead to a reduction in industrial disruptions by minority controlled unions? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="102131197612080_46_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="102131197612080_46_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="102131197612080_47_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="102131197612080_47_5.jpg"></graphic>

If one examines the table one finds that on a loan of $20,000 at the existing interest rate of 10.5 per cent the monthly repayments over 20 years would be $199. That is well in excess of the capacity of those on average weekly earnings of $184. People trying to repay that amount on the basis of 25 per cent to 30 per cent of their earnings would be in a very difficult situation. If interest rates are increased next year by 2 per cent or even more, those repayments will represent an enormous burden. In the table which I had incorporated in  Hansard  and which was compiled on 5 April 1976, I have taken interest rates only up to 12 per cent. I would have thought that a rate of 12 per cent would have been sufficient, but regrettably I will have to have the table reviewed and I will have to show interest rates of up to 14.5 per cent. The Minister at the table, in his cynical way, can laugh. Does he want to put into the record that interest rates will not rise by at least 2 per cent in the next year? 
The Labor Government in its last Budget proposed to introduce a deferred mortgage repayment scheme on second mortgage loans, to assist those people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Labor Government appropriated $20m for this purpose in the Hayden Budget. If this scheme had been introduced it would have meant that in the early years of the loan repayments would have been lower than those on loans obtainable from traditional financial sources. The program would have helped the low and middle income families, particularly oneincome and one-parent families, to obtain adequate housing. It was our intention that these funds initially would be made available to families whose regular weekly income, excluding overtime and child endowment, did not exceed 1 10 per cent of average weekly earnings in each State. Recipients would have been expected to contribute no more than 30 per cent of regular gross income of the household to meet mortgage repayments. We did this even though we knew that some building societies were introducing similar schemes. Our scheme was to supplement the building societies ' programs. 
The building societies' schemes did not cater for people earning as little as 1 10 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The schemes introduced by the private lending institutions catered only for those earning marginally less than 135 per cent of the average weekly earnings. They did not even get close to those people earning 1 10 per cent of the average weekly earnings. Although our scheme initially was to make loans available to people earning up to 1 10 per cent of the average weekly earnings we intended progressively to increase the figure to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. We knew that this was a difficult area. We thought that the deferred mortgage repayment scheme was one way to attack the situation. With the coming rise in interest rates and the scarcity of money these private institutions will be forced to abandon the programs they introduced for these potential home buyers. 
The Corporation under a Labor government would also have made available first mortgage loans in this financial year, but these would normally have been available only for specific housing developments being earned out on a joint venture basis by private developers and development corporations or land commissions; in other words, for buildings carried out in co-operation with respective State authorities. We recognised that to achieve our urban and regional development objectives specific housing programs of this nature were necessary. The Corporation also had been instructed to look at the possibility of introducing loans to cover the full cost of housing. To achieve this and to allow traditional institutions to lend a higher proportion of the total value of a home it was our intention to amend the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation Act to guarantee low income earners. This form of guarantee would have allowed the low income home buyers to acquire their home loans and to repay them by minimising the financial burden in the early years of the loan. In this way we would have been able to link the income of the home purchasers with a guarantee that they would never have to pay more than 25 per cent of their income as repayments until the home purchasers reached the point where they had enough equity in their homes to be regarded by banks and building societies as normal risks. 
It was also our intention to use the Corporation to establish cost rent housing associations. The basic principle of this proposal was that non profit-making co-operatives would be funded in pan or in full by way of loans or if necessary grants to construct, acquire or refurbish housing according to their needs and interests. We allocated $9m to the Australian Housing Corporation in 1975-76 for this purpose. These cooperatives also would have had access to funds from conventional financial institutions. This scheme was developed by the Housing Corporation in the time of the Labor Government. As I said at the beginning of this debate, the Corporation was not the be-all and the end-all. Its establishment was an evolutionary step towards developing working policies to overcome the structural inequities in the provision of housing in Australia. I believe the Corporation was a fine body. I think it had good foundations. It is a great regret that it is to be abolished. I think it would have- made a great contribution to the whole housing situation in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to Press comment concerning the appointment of the Honourable Gordon Freeth as Australia's High Commissioner to London? Does the Prime Minister draw a distinction between so-called political appointments to ambassadorial posts and the appointment of Division officers of the Public Service? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197703105_84_0.jpg"></graphic>

Six States capitals all groups index (i.e. include Medibank index, etc.). 
Information provided by the Parliamentary Legislative Research Service. 
So what is it that the people of Australia have got out of their overwhelming support for the Liberal-National Country Party coalition? They have 30 per cent more unemployment and a higher rate of inflation, while at the same time the Government has dismantled one after another of the long overdue social reforms of the Whitlam Labor Government. The Government promised to retain each one of those reforms. The list of broken promises is legend. The Prime Minister, the Treasurer and Government members are doing double somersaults trying to prove that the inflation rate, much like the unemployment situation, is not really happening. The December figures, we are told, were primarily the result of the Medibank blip. The next figures for March, we will be told, are due to the devaluation blip, and no doubt the June figures will be caused by the national wage case blip. No wonder the Treasurer is called  Colonel Bhp,  or perhaps it is Corporal Blip. Finally, I want to deal with the broken promises of the present Government. 
We will provide a sound basis of financial independence and responsibility for the States and local government with the most significant reform of the Federal system since Federation. 
The Lynch Budget reduced appropriations for local government by 25 per cent in real terms. Contrary to the Government's election pledge, payments to the States for roads were reduced by 12 per cent in real terms in 1976-77. Urban development programs were savagely cut back despite the Government's promise on 27 November 1 975 in these terms: 
We will continue urban programs. We are the people who can work with State and local government to overcome the problems caused by rapid growth in the cities and in new expanding suburbs. 
The Lynch Budget ruthlessly reduced expenditure on the growth centres program, the area improvement program, land commissions, the national sewerage program, the regional employment and development program and so on. The health policy of the Liberal-National Country parties released in November 1975 promised the 'development of a comprehensive and integrated health care system' under a LiberalNational Country Party Government.  Mr Fraser  stated in his policy speech on 27 November 1 975 the following: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
After only 6 months in power the Fraser Government destroyed Medibank and dismantled most of the Labor Government's preventive health programs. The list of broken promises is endless. 
-I think the point is taken by  Hansard. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of criticism by local government and the State Government of Western Australia of the level of road funding provided by the Commonwealth. Can the Minister indicate the level of funds that will be provided by the Commonwealth under the roads legislation to be introduced during the current session? Will local government in particular get a better deal as a result of the Government's decision on the allocation of funds for roads in 1977-78? Can the Minister also comment on the level of direction given to State governments by the Commonwealth regarding the distribution of federal funds for roads? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

WHY WAS YURI ORLOV ARRESTED? 
By Vladimir Lysenkov 
The name of the man has been in the reports broadcast by West European and American radio and television companies and in the foreign press for almost a year. Certain circles in the West claim that Yuri Orlov, a 52 year-old corresponding member of the Armenian Academy of Sciences, heads a group to monitor ... the Soviet observance of the Helsinki agreements. Orlov and a handful of his associates prepared and distributed all sorts of propaganda material slandering the Soviet policy and the socialist system. 
The authorities had warned Yuri Orlov that his activities were an act of provocation and a violation of Soviet laws. He and other 'campaigners' from his group had been told that their organisation called 'the group to assist the observance of Helsinki agreements' could not be regarded as a mass organisation because it did not reflect the interests of any broad section of society and had only twelve 'angry' men and women as its members. 
The Orlov group ignored the warning, however, and stepped up their activities, distributing their slanderous writings besmirching the Soviet Union and its state and social system. 
Orlov and his group received moral and material support from anti-Soviet circles abroad. They were given substantial financial aid and space in the propaganda media in a number of countries. 
The Procurator's Office of the U.S.S.R., which under the Soviet Constitution exercises supreme supervision over the observance of Soviet laws in this country, could not overlook these practices. It issued a warrant for a search of Yuri Orlov 's flat. 
Since a lot of anti-Soviet and other slanderous material was seized at his flat, on February 1 Yuri Orlov was summoned to the Moscow Procurator's Office. There Yuri Orlov abused the authorities and refused to comply with their legitimate demands. When he was summoned again, he defied the order. A preventive measure was applied to the offender in accordance with existing laws of procedure, Yuri Orlov was detained on February 10. Later in the day the Deutsche Welle radio station broadcast a report, which was later seized on by other western news media, saying that 'Yuri Orlov, a prominent human rights campaigner' was arrested by the Soviet authorities ' for his dissenting views. ' 
Let's make things clear. Yuri Orlov was arrested not for his 'dissent'- no one is punished for this in the Soviet Union -but for spreading slander, that is, an offense punishable under Articles 70 and 190. 1 of the Penal Code of the Russian Federation. The latter envisages punishment for systematically spreading lies slandering the Soviet state and social system. 
Novosti Press Agency, Moscow 
Orlov and a handful of his associates prepared and distributed all sorts of propaganda material slandering the Soviet policy and the socialist system. 
That is to say, he criticised the totalitarian repression of the Soviet system. He was warned that 'his activities were an act of provocation and a violation of Soviet laws'. The article continues: 
He and other 'campaigners' from his group had been told that their organisation called 'the group to assist the observance of Helsinki agreements' could not be regarded as a mass organisation because it did not reflect the interests of any broad section of society and had only twelve 'angry' men and women as its members. 
That is to say, there is a judgment that somebody who puts forward a point of view and does not represent anybody else is criminal for putting forward his point of view. The article goes on about his arrest and so on and it ends up like this: 
Let's make things clear. Yuri Orlov was arrested not for his 'dissent'- no one is punished for this in the Soviet Union -but for spreading slander, that is an offence punishable under Articles 70 and 1 90. 1 of the Penal Code of the Russian Federation. The latter envisages punishment for systematically spreading lies slandering the Soviet state and social system. 
Compare that with the position in Australia. Do we jail people for criticising our system? Most assuredly we do not. Do we say to them: 'You are only a small group. You have no mass support. Therefore it is a crime for you to put forward your views'? Most assuredly we do not. We are not allowed to put our views to the Soviet people in this war, which is at present a peaceful war but whose end, if the Soviets win, will be bloody enough. If they can paralyse our will to resist they will have no mercy upon us. Do not think that there is any prospect of survival. We cannot approach them. They are able to approach and disaffect our people. If people look around them they will see through communist and other organisations which are paralysing our will to resist. It is the duty of the Government to meet this threat and to meet it by publicising the truth about what is happening in the Soviet Union and in other communist countries. 
Let me take another example- communist China. Ironically enough we have had praise from top government circles of a wonderful communist archaeological exhibition. What irony it is that the people who are putting this forward are the people who are doing everything to besmirch and destroy the culture which they put forward to us as something to admire. There is a complete contradiction between the way they treat these things in China and the way they use them to deceive us here. I say this knowing that it is a very wonderful exhibition of what the Chinese people and the Chinese culture are capable of being. It is being put forward by the people who are destroying that whole culture and whose way of political organisation is to destroy. Let us have no doubt about this. That exhibition, wonderful as it is, is a living lie and we should not be deceived into thinking that the people who put it out to us have any other kind of motive. 
There will be visits to China. They are being organised by well-meaning people. People who have been in such a country will know that they see what they are meant to see. They cannot speak the language. They cannot even read the script. They see a sign but do not know whether it is a street sign, a shop direction or a sign on a women's lavatory. They do not know what the sign means at all. They are utterly in the hands of their guides. These people, well-meaning as they are, will come back from China giving us the version of things there which the Chinese communist authorities want to put over to us- a version which is a lie. They are going to use these wellmeaning people, to encourage them to go to China and to come back and propagate a lie with all the authority of returned tourists. It is exactly what happened in the 1930s in Soviet Russia when in the excesses of the Stalinist purges, murders and filth people came back to England and Australia telling us of the wonders of the socialist sixth of the world. 
-In entering the debate on the Address-in-Reply I would like to say, firstly, that long will I remember 8 March when that gracious lady,  Her  Majesty the Queen, opened the second, session of the Thirtieth Parliament of Australia. She, I believe, received a wonderful reception here in Canberra, as she has done as she has moved around the continent. I feel quite sure that wherever she goes in Australia from now on she will get the same sort of reception. I thought that the Press reports that she received a mixed reception when she came to Canberra were quite misleading. When one thinks of a mixed reception one has in mind something like 50 per cent of the people not receiving the Queen graciously and perhaps 50 per cent of the people receiving her graciously. Let me tell the people of Australia that when the 
Press reported that she received a mixed reception it meant that there was a tiny group of people who perhaps were not welcoming our Queen in the manner in which she should be welcomed here and as we would all like to see her welcomed. 
I think I could best sum up the reaction to the Queen's visit here by referring to a small cartoon which appeared on the front page of the  Australian  on the day following her visit and which depicted the situation so well. The cartoon showed 2 typical Pickering figures holding signs which read 'Republic'. One of them had a very shaky smile on his face and his banner was lowered to the ground. He said to the other fellow who looked quite sternly at him: 'I think she smiled at me'. I think that our Queen, our monarch, has that ability, with one gracious smile, to produce a different reaction completely even in those who want to change to a republican system. I also compliment the Services on their splendid display. Their preciseness and brilliance on that day, I thought, were magnificent and were a credit to them. I can imagine the amount of work that went into that exercise. I say to them that I believe that it was more than worth while and I thank them for the part that they played on that day. It really was a memorable day in our lives in Canberra. 
The Queen's speech outlined the Government's intentions for the future. At the beginning of her speech she said in part: 
As I look back over Australia 's development since my first visit in 1 954, 1 am impressed, as you must be, by this nation 's many social, economic and cultural achievements. 
Today the qualities of the Australian people, the character of Australian society and the resources of the Australian continent hold out a great promise and a great challenge. 
What she said is so true. We still have opportunities available to us. We still are, without any doubt, the lucky country. The maintenance of that position is something that we have to earn. It is not our right and it is not something that we have inherited from the work and foresight of our forefathers. It is not something that we can keep for ourselves without doing the necessary work and without having the necessary dedication to achieve the greatness that this country has the riches and the resources to enable us to achieve. It does not matter how many riches we have; we have to exploit them wisely. We have to earn them. 
I would like to say a few words about the Government's record over the last 15 months. Its record has been surprisingly good, considering the state in which we found the economy when we took it over 1 5 months ago. It is worth repeating today some of the economic indicators that we are enjoying. The recovery in business profitability is evidenced by the increase in the profit share as measured in the national account from 12.4 per cent in the final quarter of 1975 to 14.4 per cent in the September quarter of 1976. In the September quarter of 1 976 company profits were 39.4 per cent above those of a year earlier. That situation, of course, is essential to the revival of business confidence. National production began to grow in 1976. Between the December quarter of 1 975 and the September quarter of 1 976 there was a 7.5 per cent rise in real gross non farm product. Real growth in the non farm section is expected to be at a rate of around 4 per cent in this financial year. 
Industrial production has been expanding overall in recent months. In December the ANZ Bank's index was 9 per cent above its low point in mid 1975. An increase in private consumption 4.2 per cent as an annual rate- was recorded over the first 3 quarters of 1976, despite a slight fall in real household disposable income in the 3 quarters to June 1976. Disposable incomes rose in real terms during the September quarter of 1976, revealing the effects of personal tax indexation and the new family allowances. The Opposition would say that that is not good enough. I believe that that is an indication of the steady improvement that has taken place over the 15 months that this Government has been in office. 
One must recall just what the economic and political situation was like 1 5 months ago. One must recall what sort of economic trouble we were in as a result of the 3 years of mismanagement by the Labor Government. It is not easy to go back to the situation which existed prior to 1972 when we had economic growth, low inflation rates and all of those good things that were part of our economy at that stage. It is not easy, following the fairly traumatic 3 years that we have been through, just to leap back to that situation. Going back to that situation sensibly must be done steadily without dislocating the community too much and without fuelling the fires of inflation. 
I would like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about the Government's decision to devalue. The devaluation decision was, as we recall, forced upon this Government for the reasons that we know about. I do not wish to canvass them at this stage. It became apparent that it was essential that devaluation should take place. It was essential because there had to be a return to balance- some type of balance and justice to different sections of the community. The situation had reached the point where our exports and rural industries and manufacturing or import competing industries were not able to survive. It gave to the manufacturing industries, certainly, and also to the rural industry the opportunity to improve their position. 
For devaluation to be an effective economic weapon, a few measures have to be taken by all sections of the community. Those industries which have gained substantially- there are many of them, such as the exporting and rural industries and those manufacturing industries which have found themselves with a windfall gain because of the tariff situation- have to be careful over the next few months to make sure that we do not lose the value of devaluation. 
I turn to the manufacturing industries and those other industries that are put in a more profitable position. Profits from these industries must be ploughed back into productive development or used to lower the cost to the consumer. There must not be a situation where the wage earning section of the community can quickly take up the slack of the profitability that has come about quite deliberately by devaluation. If that happens, very quickly we will be back in a 1974 situation where any productive gain was quickly swallowed up by a vast increase in wages and we found ourselves continually falling behind. I do not want to knock the wage earner. Goodness gracious, we all are wage earners. I belong to a particular section of the community. I come from a rural area of Australia. We all wish to see our lot improve as time goes by, but this can come about in Australia, mainly because we are a vast trading nation, only through increased productivity; there is no other way. There is no way we can continually try to take more out of the system than we put into it. We cannot continue to live beyond our means. 
There are sections of the community that have no protection. I should like to speak briefly about the rural sector. It has been particularly hard hit over the last few years because of inflation. That has been pointed out time and time again. Anyone who has anything to do with that productive sector of our community knows that. 
-Quite right. Being in general heavily dependent on export markets, primary producers for the most part have been unable to pass on the increases in their costs of production in higher prices for their products. Chiefly because of rising costs, farm income fell by $ 1 ,32 1 m or 45 per cent between 1 973-74 and 1975-76 and was predicted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to fall by a further $495m or 30 per cent in 1976-77. When allowance is made for the effects of inflation on the purchasing power of the dollar, farm income in 1 975- 76 was 56 per cent less than in 1 973-74 and a further fall of 36 per cent is expected for 1976- 77. The decline in primary producers' incomes would have been considerably greater if they had not cut back substantially in their expenditure on farm inputs. To a significant extent, however, these cuts have been of a type which, if continued, eventually will lead to a running down of the farm assets, a reduction of productive capacity, cuts in maintenance expenditure and fertiliser use, etc. Net farm income has been forecast to fall to around $126 a week this year- less than half what it was in 1 973-74. 
Of course, a comment like that does not really show up the differences between the various rural industries. For sure, some are doing quite well, such as the grain and sugar industries. But, if they are doing quite well and we end up with an average weekly income of $ 126, how well are the lower echelons doing? How well are the people in the horticultural, apple and beef industries doing? They are receiving far below the $ 1 26 a week. It is a very poor return to the farmer for his hard day's work and for the capital he has invested in his land, plant and machinery. On the other hand, average adult male earnings have increased by more than half since 1973-74, to somewhere in the vicinity of $185 a week. The farmer's income is not indexed, as that of the trade unionist is. The last increase of 2.2 per cent awarded for the last quarter by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would have further worsened the imbalance between people living in the rural and urban sectors. Even with the projected increase in farm income to $143 a weekthis is after devaluation- in 1976-77 net farm income will be down on that of 1 975-76. So there is still a long way to go before the farmer once again enjoys the same standard of living as his urban counterpart. 
Primary producers export about 55 per cent of their production, in terms of value, and must remain competitive against the alternative overseas suppliers. The devaluation will help the primary producer regain his competitive position. The $4,500m of export earnings from agricultural products is vital to the economy. Devaluation has given us, the whole community, an opportunity to have this country really motivated again. We should not jeopardise this in any way. The wage earners, the unions and the business people who are in a position to invest today must use this opportunity wisely and well if we are to prosper in Australia as the Queen in her Speech said we have the opportunity to do. She admired what has been done in this country since her visit in 1 954. She can see, as we all can, the opportunities that we have. I appeal to those who are out in the market place and who have the ability to influence the economic future of this nation not to be greedy about it, to take the long range look and to see that Australia does recover and prosper as it should. 

There is no substance in the point of order. 
It is interesting to look at the history of this legislation. Back in 1964 the then Opposition, the now Opposition, was not happy with the Bureau of Roads as it was originally formed. There is some inconsistency in the stand being taken now by the Australian Labor Party Opposition in the comments that have been made by the honourable member for Shortland. I wish to quote from a speech made on 11 August 1964 by the then honourable member for Stirling speaking on behalf of the Labor Opposition on that occasion. 
Whilst the Bureau, as proposed in this measure, will be of little or no benefit in the serious transport situation that faces us, it could be a  Stan  and from  it  could develop a body that may have teeth in it some time in the future. 
The honourable member further said: 
We will criticise its weaknesses and move amendments and we will outline the type of authority that the Australian Labor Party would like to see set up by the Government. 
The Opposition then was critical of the Bureau of Roads. 
I quote from a document that was prepared by that organisation. It states: 
The Bureau has sought and obtained the co-operation of State Governments, State Road Authorities and local governments. It is regarded as a partner of equality. 
The Bureau has talked earnestly, thoughtfully and cooperatively with the States, particularly through State Road Authorities. It has talked extensively -with local councils. 
It has promoted discussion between parties on a factual basis and with a great degree of moderation. lt has obtained the co-operation of the States, State Road Authorities and municipal councils in conducting road surveys, the results of which have been very material in the preparation of its reports. 
This co-operative consultation and co-operative effort has been good for each level of government 
There is less master and more partner. 
All parties have performed better because of the Bureau and the efforts it has made. 
A number of councils within my own electorate of Braddon put similar views after receiving correspondence from their national body. I have had letters from the Burnie Council, the Circular Head Council, the Ulverstone and King Island Councils and certain other councils within my electorate, all expressing the same sort of theme. I should like to mention here that today a deputation from King Island which included the Warden of King Island, Councillor Nash and Councillors Barratt, Daw, Brooke and the Council  Clerk  from King Island,  Mr John  Bonney, came to this Parliament. They were here not to discuss this matter but other transport matters affecting King Island, which of course is in a very isolated position and transport is vital to it. I think that they put their case to the Minister very well. The Minister listened to them and no doubt he will take into account the views expressed by that delegation from King Island. 
I have also had discussions recently with members of the Municipal Association of Tasmania. I believe that the Minister has also met these gentlemen- Councillor Frank Britton, the  chairman  of that Association and  Mr Bevan  Johnson, the secretary. Both these gentlemen are very widely respected in local government circles, not only in Tasmania but nationally. They did not express the same degree of concern about the proposed amalgamation. Obviously they have studied the subject in some detail and are willing to accept the assurances given by the Minister that the existing standards and functions of the Bureau will continue. The fact is that the existing functions both of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics will continue under the new body. The duties and functions of the body have been spelt out by the Minister in his second reading speech. I wish to reiterate those duties and functions. I quote from the Minister's second reading speech. With regard to the Bureau, he said: 
Its primary function will be to assist and advise the Government. Its duties will in part be to- 
Undertake evaluations of the Australian road situation as presently done by the Bureau of Roads. These will continue to be done, as in the past, by consultation in the broadest sense with State and local government authorities. It includes conducting investigations and reporting to the Minister on the matter of the need for financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
Advise and assist the Government in its consideration of financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
Advise and assist in the formulation of policies aimed at the reduction of transport costs. 
Undertake research and advise on the improvement of transport efficiency. 
Advise and assist on the rationalised planning of transport facilities. 
Advise on the optimal allocation of resources in the transport field. 
Assess and advise on transport planning and administration procedures. 
A secondary function of the new BTE will be to assist State and local governments, Commonwealth and State instrumentalities and the private sector to identify and solve transport problems and to plan developments with regard to transport. 
To achieve these functions, it is clear that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will need to engage in a wide range of activities. These activities will include: 
The assessment of the performance of transport systems and equipment. 
Carrying out feasibility studies. 
Carrying out studies of resource use and availability. 
Carrying out studies of pricing and finance. 
The evaluation of proposed investments. 
The new body will act independently of the Department of Transport in research activities and in providing expert advice. Its director, of course, will have ready access to the Minister. That is important. It will continue to collect facts and information to assist all levels of government in determining levels of funding for roads. It will continue to prepare and present reports and they will continue to be made public to the same degree as at present. 
No one could doubt the success of the Bureau in the past and in this respect I heartily agree with the comments made by the honourable member for Shortland. He was quite right when he praised the body. The amalgamation can in no way be interpreted as criticism of the Bureau itself. The Bureau is a highly responsible and respected body. In particular, the  Chairman  of the Bureau,  Mr Harold  Loxton, who has been the  chairman  since the Bureau's inception, must be complimented on the job he has done personally and on the job that the Bureau has done as an organisation. Following amalgamation, the Bureau 's functions will not be curtailed; they will continue and in fact to some degree they will be extended. The Bureau perhaps will be given further opportunity to gain additional respect, if that is possible, in its operations in those extended areas. 
There has been talk that the rights of officers within the Bureau will be adversely affected. In fact, the opportunities for people in the Bureau will be enhanced and not reduced as a result of this amalgamation. Their rights will be fully protected by the Minister and by the Government in carrying out the amalgamation. I quote from notes prepared by the Minister as to some of the action he has taken in ensuring that the rights and interests of people working in the Bureau will be fully protected. The Minister said: 
On 17 November 1976 I announced the formation of a new body attached to the Department of Transport to be called the Bureau of Transport Economics and indicated, amongst other things, that the functions of the new body would include the existing functions of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Within a few days of that announcement the Secretary of my Department visited the Bureau of Roads' premises in Melbourne and addressed the staff. 
On 30 November 1976 the Secretary of my Department received a letter from the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads enclosing a questionnaire prepared by staff of the Secretary's Division of the Bureau. 
That questionnaire was referred to recently in question time. The Minister continued: 
In January 1977 the First Assistant Secretary, Management Services, held discussions with the Australian Public Service Association (Fourth Division Officers). 
During the discussions held by the Secretary of my Department and his First Assistant Secretary, undertakings were given to the staff of the Bureau that, in accordance with Government policies, provision would be made to safeguard the rights of officers and employees of the Bureau. 
That is stated there quite clearly. The Minister went on: 
It was also indicated that the Department had commenced negotiations with the Public Service Board on the machinery of transfer of non-Public Service Act staff from the Bureau of Roads to the Department. 
In January 1977 a joint departmental/Public Service Board review team was established to develop the organisation structure of the new Bureau of Transport Economics. This review is still proceeding. During the course of the review staff at all levels of both Bureaus nave been given the opportunity to contribute to the development of the new structure and action is currently being taken to give all staff an opportunity to comment on the proposed organisation. Also, during this review further consultations were held with representatives of staff from all areas of the Bureau of Roads with particular emphasis on the matters raised in the questionnaire. 
That is the questionnaire to which I have referred. The Minister continued: 
On 15 March 1977 a letter was sent from my Department to the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads referring specifically to the questionnaire from the staff of the Secretary's Division of the Bureau. In this letter the  Chairman  was asked to let my Department know if there are any matters which the staff of the Secretary's Division considered to be still unanswered. I might add that the Secretary of the Bureau of Roads has joined with officers of my Department during recent discussions with officers of the Public Service Board relating to staffing aspects of the amalgamation. 
It was made quite clear in those comments by the Minister that the interests of the staff of the joint Bureau would be fully protected as this amalgamation proceeds. The dangers which the honourable member for Shortland and the Opposition  see in this repealing legislation have no substance of any kind, just as their opposition to and criticism of the original Bureau in 1964 and the Act then had no substance. The Act is not sinister, as has been suggested. It is a sensible Act. I think that the role and function of the Bureau of Roads are being fully protected in the actions being taken by the Minister and the Government. Therefore I believe that this Bill should be supported. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197704214_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

Total Power of Tractors Sold in the Period 1965-66-1973-74 
N.B. Total Power is estimated by multiplying the number of tractors sold in each size group by the average power (in kilowatts) for that group, in each year. 
Average Power is estimated by dividing the total power for the year by the number of tractors sold in that year. 

<graphic href="104131197704214_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

The total fleet as at 1973-74 was approximately 330 000 tractors with average power of each unit 48 kw approximately. 

<graphic href="104131197704214_61_2.jpg"></graphic>


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lucock)  adjourned. 
-Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  stating that the Trade Practices Amendment Bill presently before this House removes prohibitions on resale price maintenance? Can he inform the House whether this report is accurate and whether the Government has any intention of removing restrictions on resale price maintenance? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Because this clause relates to proposed section 4SD of the Trade Practices Act and because of the speech just made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  I feel bound to say a few words. Lots of things have been said in this debate. A lot was said by the honourable member. But there are a few things on the other side of the coin that must be realised. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke much of the confrontation situation that this legislation is going to bring about between the unions and the Government or, as I would rather say, the people of Australia. It seems to me that whenever one enters into debates in this Parliament and outside it on this subject there always has to be overlaying sympathy with the understanding of the union cause. 
It is said by the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the working conditions of some people within our country today are abhorrent and bad and that secondary strikes and sympathy strikes are needed to alleviate that position. I invite the honourable member to look at other sections of the community. I invite him to look at the rural section of our community. I invite him to look at how the beef producers, some of the dairy farmers and people involved in the horticultural industries have survived during the last few years. I invite him to look at the actions of the trade union movement throughout Australia over the last few years- actions by which it has sought more than equality with the wealth producing sectors of this nation, particularly the rural sector. I invite him to understand what it meant to primary producers when meat workers decided to picket the Bunbury wharf as they did the other day to stop the shipment of live sheep from this country. I ask him to try to understand that farmers in that area for the first time are getting a legitimate price for their product. For the past 4 years they have been having an extremely difficult time. For the first time in 4 years there is a shortage of sheep on world markets and a reasonable price is being paid for export sheep. But the shipment of their sheep was stopped. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for people in the meat industry who have lost their jobs in Western Australia and throughout Australia. 
This is seasonal work which is subject to drought and fluctuating markets. There are 300 people out of work in this industry in Western Australia. It is interesting to note the uproar that has gone on in respect of the intention of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd to make 600 workers redundant. The work force in that organisation is far greater in size than the work force in the Western Australian meat industry. But meat workers at Bunbury have, without the backing of their union, the ability to stop the loading of live sheep onto ships. This action has led to tremendous expense. Sheep have to be taken from the wharves, and fed and so on. Why do these workers have the right to take away the dollar that another man was expecting to earn? I do not care what the size of the fine is in respect of this legislation. I do not care whether it is a $250,000 fine or a $50 fine. That is not the point. I believe that the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party have forced this Government into the position it is in today. Why cannot we have a responsible situation that does not force governments into introducing this type of legislation? Why cannot we just for once pull together and think a little more about Australia? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 6 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In isolation the new arrangements will not generate additional funds. However, I anticipate that there could well be a rub off in relation to returns to growers by a more efficient operation. But I make a proviso. It is apparent to many that there is an enormously increased amount of statistically work involved in the new arrangements. If that work can be carried out economically- some people think it cannot- I believe that some of this efficiency can rub off to the benefit of the industry. 
I note that the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation,  Mr Webster,  states that, given a normal season, production in Australia is estimated, for this coming year, to be about 5.3 billion litres of milk which is much the same as the level achieved last year. The drought of 1976 and the huge increases in the cost of production which have been borne by the dairy industrythis bears on the excellent speech made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  about half an hour ago- together with the consequent effect on a lack of competitive position with other producing nations and, a surplus position with many dairying commodities on the world market have all brought about a contraction in the size of the industry. This has been of great consequence. Much of the contraction has occurred in the case of younger dairy farmers who, unfortunately, have had a higher debt load. They have had to give away their vocation in life. I mention this aspect because they are from the very section which would have produced the dairy leaders of the future. Their loss is a very dire one to the dairying industry and to this country. 
This contraction has brought production to a volume at which we should be able to sell our products at a reasonable return if some sanity can be brought to bear on the policies of other dairying producing nations. The Industries Assistance Commission in its report of September last year recommended the implementation of a staged mandatory marketing scheme for the manufacturing sector of the industry with a view to achieving a stable and viable basis for the industry. The Australian Agricultural Council and sections of the industry have agreed with the Government that the implementation of stage one should be from 1 July this year. As well as providing for compulsory, instead of voluntary, equalisation the legislation provides for a levy on prescribed products. The Dairy Produce Amendment Bill empowers the Australian Dairy Corporation to administer the levy-disbursement arrangements and sets up an Australian Dairy Industry Advisory Committee to give the best possible technical advice to the Corporation in the field of marketing arrangements. The Government has listened to further advice and recently it amended the composition to include 11 members. There will be one independent chairman, 3 members representing butter, skimmed milk and casein manufacturers, 2 members representing cheese manufacturers, one member representing other processed milk products and 4 dairy farmers, including one from the market milk sector. 
The last 2 Bills establish, as I mentioned earlier, reserve powers to be used if disruption occurs in the liquid milk sector. These powers can be triggered by the Agricultural Council, by majority vote. So that the current margins of costs can be discerned State by State, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table headed: 
The Price Structure for Market Milk in the States. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705310_37_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197705310_38_1.jpg"></graphic>

There is still much to be done in relation to the dairying industry. I shall mention some of these matters in brief form. The first matter is allowances. Various allowances, for example to assist with storage and transport, will be reviewed. The Industries Assistance Commission has recommended that they should be reviewed. These allowances are funded under equalisation by the industry. I believe that some of the allowances may prove unnecessary. 
Underwriting of equalised returns from sales of dairy products to assist in stabilising the incomes of dairy farmers is the next matter. The Government has extended this scheme for butter and cheese, as is probably well known to the House, to the 1977-78 season. Subject to agreement by State governments, a similar extension could be granted in the field of skim milk powder and casein. In relation to rural adjustment, the Commonwealth and the States will make $55m available in 1977-78. A significant proportion of this amount will no doubt be provided to assist dairy farmers. I gather that more funds can be made available when claims which might necessitate that action are processed. However, the implementation of stage one from 1 July 1977 is a major step forward. The Government and the Minister are to be congratulated on this action. 
I must initially express my interest in this matter. Firstly, I am a West Australian; secondly, I am a beef producer; and thirdly, I do eat the stuff. So I have an interest in it. I wish to speak briefly to this clause. I would like to say to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that I understand the extreme difficulties that he has had in putting this board together and in endeavouring to look after all sections of the community. We all know that we wanted a corporation that was reasonably small- one that was manageable. To go beyond a membership of nine would be unreasonable. Being a West Australian, I ask the Minister whether he will make sure that the special provisions contained in the Bill regarding geographical areas will ensure that the different industry interests are looked after. In Western Australia we have different markets. We have approximately 74 per cent of the livestock trade out of Australia. This is not fully understood by the marketeers of the eastern States. We have built up special markets and we have special conditions with respect to those markets. The strongest representations have been made by grower organisations throughout Western Australia. I should like some assurance from the Minister that, if by some mischance a West Australian is not chosen by the producer consultative group to be appointed to the Corporation, a West Australian would be considered for one of the special representative positions. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. The Government announced in the Budget Speech that the special pension and benefits available in respect of re- patriation tuberculosis pensioners would no onger be available. Can the Minister inform the House when the Bill in relation to this matter is likely to be introduced or what the current position is? 
-Has the Prime Minister received a reply to his letter to the Japanese Prime Minister concerning exports of Australian beef to Japan? 
-As it now seems to be the will of the House again to resolve itself into committee, that course will be followed. 
In Committee 
Consideration resumed. 
The Schedule. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
-Is it the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith? 
In Committee 
-I have received the following message from the Senate: 
The Senate transmits to the House of Representatives the following resolution which was agreed to by the Senate this day: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory-to undertake a continuing review of the extent to which recommendations made in the Committee's report 'Canberra Gty Wastes- A long-term strategy for collection and disposal' presented to both Houses of Parliament on 8 December 1976 have been implemented and the current position regarding matters discussed in the report. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen reports criticising  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation be given wide powers to protect Australia's security? 
-Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
-Has the Treasurer noted recent assessments that 1978 will reflect stronger growth in the economy than 1977? Will the Treasurer provide the House with the Government's assessment of Australia's growth prospects? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (4.37)-The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  reminded the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has held out an olive branch and has asked us to co-operate with him to make this a better country, or words to that effect. That is all right for those people who have most other things as well as the olive branch but honourable members on this side of the House represent a group of people who are looking for much more than an olive branch. I refer to the 400,000-odd unemployed, the homeless pensioners and many other people. 
What measures have been taken to assist the unemployed? A mine in Cobar, which was discussed here before the House rose at Christmas, asked for assistance to keep a few hundred people employed. It did not receive assistance but a multinational company like the Utah organisation obtained the removal of a coal levy and repatriated $ 1 50m out of Australia. It is hard to believe that we should forget everything and just accept the olive branch. It is up to the Government and honourable members on the other side of the House to show a bit of sincerity, to show that they really care for people. Opposition supporters are not interested in the multinationals when people around us are ragged and hungry and pensioners are homeless. Let the Prime Minister show some sincerity and then let him hand out the olive branch. Then he might find that we would be more ready to accept it. 
I must not forget to offer my congratulations, along with those of other speakers in this Address-in-Reply debate, to the  Speaker  on receipt of his knighthood from  Her  Majesty the Queen. I think it was well deserved. I wish also to offer my congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I feel he has some abilities and he should be able to carry out that position with some distinction. At the same time, I would like to add a word of praise for the previous  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who carried out his position with some distinction. However, I do not wish to take away anything from the honourable member for Wide Bay on that account. None of us should think that these appointments are permanent, whether it be as a member of parliament or in some high position. I think that everyone has the right to stand for election to any position and that every credit is due to the elected person. However, I do think that the abolition of my old seat of Darling by the Distribution Commissioners in the recent redistribution before the last election was a little rough. The seat was split in two. As a result I had to go into another area to contest the seat which I now hold. Even so, I had the right to stand for that seat as did anyone else. Perhaps that is all we can expect. No one here should believe that he has a right to be a permanent member of this place and that no one has that right to stand against him. In that regard I believe the honourable member for Wide Bay is fully entitled to credit for winning the important position he now holds. 
It is with some sadness that I speak in the Address-in-Reply debate in which we are discussing the Speech delivered by the GovernorGeneral when he opened the Thirty-First Parliament. I speak not out of any disrespect for the Governor-General or the high position which he holds. Like most Australians I believe that we should respect such high offices in the same way as we look up to the position of  Her  Majesty the Queen. However, I cannot understand how any thinking Australian could listen to the GovernorGeneral 's Speech without feeling some regret, some disappointment and perhaps some shame at the way in which the high office of GovernorGeneral had been degraded by the actions of the previous Governor-General. When one considers all the needy people of this great nation- I have already mentioned the unemployed and the homeless aged- our shocking road system and so on, one cannot understand how anyone on the Government benches would not feel some shame that his Government should set aside $250,000 a year to compensate or reward  Sir John  Kerr for what most Australians would view as the most disgraceful period in the history of the occupancy of that high office. I do not want to spend too much time on this matter but I would like everyone in my electorate to know where I stand. I believe that  Sir John  should be condemned for the violence that he has done to our parliamentary system. I also believe that the Fraser Government should be condemned for the way in which it has rewarded  Sir John. 
I believe that the present Governor-General was expressing our aspirations and our hopes when he said: 
My Government rededicates itself to govern for all Australians and to work in partnership with all groups to build an Australia in which its people can have security, the knowledge that they can plan ahead with assurance, and that their efforts will be rewarded. 
I am happy to say that the Governor-General appeared to be very sincere when he said this. But the present Government will certainly have to make a big turnabout if it is to fulfil this promise. Let us hope that the Government can do so and that in the eyes of the people this Parliament can be returned to its previous position of prestige and power, a position which the people of this nation have a right to expect it to hold. I hope that this Parliament can blot out the memory of the shameful events of November 1975 that the unwarranted appointment of  Sir John  Kerr to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation brought back to our memories. Let us hope we can all do this. 
I return to the Governor-General's Speech. The Governor-General said that all groups of people could now build an Australia in which they could be secure in the knowledge that they could plan ahead with assurance that their efforts would be rewarded. A lot of people in my electorate cannot look forward with confidence that their efforts will be rewarded. I refer in particular to the people in the Wakool/Tullakool irrigation area. In the early 1930s that area was able to carry only one sheep to every 10 acres. But with the advent of irrigation and the cutting up of the holdings, it has developed to a stage where it now supports 400 families. They can rely on it for their livelihood. Production for 1969 amounted to $8m. 
This is the oldest irrigation area in New South Wales. Unfortunately it is now faced with a reclamation scheme which, if not implemented, will mean that the land will revert back to its original carrying capacity. I consider that this would be a tragedy as the area has proved consistently to be one of the most productive in terms of water usage and end result in New South Wales. Also it is vitally important to the town of Deniliquin which has a development scheme controlled by the Deniliquin Development Corporation. Of course the expansion of this scheme will largely depend on the viability of the Wakool irrigation system. 
I shall give the House some idea of the history of this salinity problem. In 1 953 the landholders made an effort to get adequate drainage and to try to control the water tables. A group of farmers from the Tulla Soldiers Settlers Association approached the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission regarding the possible need for a drainage system. Unfortunately, at the time they were given the assurance that there was no need for such a system. But in 1956, heavy rains and flooding resulted in a large area in the Tullakool locality and some isolated patches in the Wakool district becoming salt affected. I have made a personal inspection of the area and can assure the House that the water table has risen. Everything has just dried off and nothing is growing, yet alongside there are lush fields of corn and other crops. 
In 1 96 1 representation was made to the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission by the Wakool Landholders Association concerning these rising water tables and the need for increased drainage. In 1 964 a sub-committee of the Wakool Landholders Association was formed to press for the construction of the No. 1 surface drainage scheme. They were unsuccessful in getting any support for this scheme. One landholder put down a tube well at his own expense. The water is trapped deep in the ground and it is pumped up to where it is not affected by salinity. I believe permission has been given to allow this water to flow back into the river in periods of high rainfall. I can assure the House that the farmer who sunk the tube well is a very successful farmer and that the crops on his land are unaffected by the high water table or by salinity. 
In 1964 there was repeated agitation from the Wakool Landholders Association and individual farmers who expressed concern and fear at the increased rate of deterioration of the soil through rising water tables and lack of drainage. At that stage some of the trees in the area started to die out. In January 1 977 the salinity sub-committee was advised that the State Government, although recognising the need, was unable to finance fully the implementation of the scheme. 
I have been asked by the committee to make several points. If the tube wells were put down the committee is sure that the water table could be lowered and the salinity problem solved to some degree. The resultant saline water would not be a pollution hazard but would be contained in the district and would be of some benefit. Salt water would be prevented from reentering the river system and the harvesting of the salt would become a decentralised industry. I believe that a number of people are prepared to offer a contract to purchase the salt. Expenditure is planned over a three-year period for completion of the first section. The people in the area wish to make the point that it is very important that there be no delay in the implementation of the scheme. The country out there is fast going to pieces and the people are gradually losing their livelihood. I want to impress that point upon the House in relation to not only the top of the water system but also the bottom of the system in the Sunrasia district, particularly in the Dareton and Buronga area, where the water salinity level is getting so high that citrus trees can be watered only in the evening. The trees cannot be watered in the sun because the high salinity level of the water is burning off all the crops. I ask the Government to give urgent consideration to the problem. The people of the area have had several conferences and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has looked at the scheme. The people have told me that the records show that discussions have been going on since 1953. They would like to see the scheme implemented and they believe that there is no need for any further investigations. 
Another matter about which people in the area are concerned is that they do not have equal access to the facilities of this Parliament. I refer to the closing down of the office of the previous member for Riverina in the township of Narrandera. During the election campaign the then member for Riverina intimated that a second office would be opened at Broken Hill if he were successful in the election. Following a statement made by my opponent, I made the statement that a second office would be maintained at Narrandera. I had an assurance to that effect from Fred Daly when he was the responsible Minister and I took it that the then member for Riverina had also received the same assurance. Unfortunately, the Minister has now told me that he is unable to give me the second office, I believe on the ground that everybody else with a large electorate would want one. I remind the House that there is a big concentration of about 30,000 people in the Broken Hill district and about 55,000 people in the Narrandera district. The distance between the two places is 740 kilometres of sparsely populated country. 
It would appear that a lot of city members of Parliament do not understand the relationship between a country member and his constituents. In a large country electorate the constituents become accustomed to dealing with the staff of the member whereas in the city electorates they deal more directly with the member. But, in a country electorate, because the member cannot get around it as often, his constituents are more inclined to deal with his staff, although of course they always want to see their member. The people in country electorates feel that they are treated as second class citizens because they do not have ready access to their members of parliament. I am not putting in a plug for myself, because I cannot see how the job becomes easier if one has more work to do. A member who has a second office certainly gets more work to do. 
Now that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is present in the House, I ask him to give some consideration to this matter. The people in country electorates do not have the same access to their representatives as people in city electorates have to their representatives. I trust that this matter will be considered and that the facilities which are available to city electorate representatives will be made available to country electorate representatives. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sainsbury)  adjourned. 

There is no substance in the point of order. I call the honourable member for Banks. 
Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the House of the current situation concerning the dispute within the Commonwealth Employment Service? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-May I take this opportunity to congratulate  Mr Speaker  not only on his knighthood but also on continuing in his position as  Speaker.  I have served under him for the last two years and I feel that he does a remarkably good job. I wish him well and I am sure that he will hold that position for as long as he wants it. 

Order! The discussion is now concluded. 

Order! The honourable member for Kalgoorlie will have an opportunity if he has not had an opportunity to participate in this debate. I ask him to cease interjecting. 
The worst aspect of this legislation is not only that it does not do what it purports to do and that in fact it tries to pull the wool over the eyes of the country people generally- but also that it does not even get to the real problem which is confronting the industry at the moment. The figures which I have cited reveal two important things: Not only is there a great disparity between petrol prices in the city and petrol prices in the country, but also there is a great disparity between prices within any one capital city. What we have to accept is that this problem will never be solved until the Government is prepared to take on the major oil companies. It is not enough for the Prime Minister and for the Premier of Western Australia and his Minister for Labour and Industry simply to blame the discounters for the problems which beset the retail petrol industry. Discounters are only able to survive, are only able to operate, because of the chaos which continues to beset the retail marketing of motor spirit. What those critics of the discounters forget is that the activities of those discount operations has saved millions of dollars to motorists, particularly those in metropolitan areas. 
I do not subscribe to the view that metropolitan motorists ought to be privileged in relation to their country counterparts. But what I do say is that this legislation which is being introduced will do nothing to get to the root problems which have brought about this situation. The problems have been caused almost entirely by the pricing policies of the major oil companies. Honourable members will recall that some years ago the major oil companies had control of crude oil at the well-head. When they had that control of crude oil at the well-head, they had a vested interest in maximising their sales because they were taking their profits at the well-head. Therefore the more they could sell as a result of pumping the oil out of the ground, the greater would be their profits. As a result of recent actions of the Middle East countries, of course the major oil companies no longer controlled the crude oil at the well-head. So they now have a vested interest in maximising their margins at the retail end. 
What did we have in the past as a result of the oil companies trying to maximise their sales? We had the oil companies pursuing a policy of having a petrol station on every street corner. Now as a result of changes in their economic situation we have had the opposite happening with the oil companies pursuing, rather belatedly, a policy of rationalisation at the retail end in order to cut the costs of retailing and therefore maximise their profits. They are doing so without regard to the interests of the owner-operators or their lessees or managers or whoever else is involved. They do not care if as a result of maximising their profits they squeeze out a lot of petrol station operators who perhaps have given a lifetime of service to the industry. They are not interested in the welfare of those particular people. All they are interested in is reducing the number of service stations in order to maximise their profits. 
Everybody accepts that the number of service stations has to be reduced. The fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum made that perfectly clear. Also the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce accepts that there has to be a reduction in the number of service station outlets. They recognise that the policies pursued by the oil companies in earlier times were entirely wrong. They also realise that an uncoordinated, indiscriminate method of reducing the number of outlets will only disadvantage their members. 
What has to happen is that the Government has to take a firm hand in this whole question and ensure that as a result of the necessary rationalisation which has to occur at the retail end of the market, the dealers, the operators and so on are not the ones who bear the brunt of this very necessary development. Until the Government is prepared to take on the major oil companies, until it is prepared to get to the real root cause of this problem, until it is prepared to take on the oil companies over their pricing policies, not only are the dealers and the petrol station operators likely to be the losers but also motorists everywhere will continue to be ripped off. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the Minister for Finance aware of the devastation caused to the southern areas of Western Australia, particularly in the electorate of Forrest, by Cyclone Alby? Has he or the Government been in touch with the Western Australian Government? If so, what is the early assessment of the situation and what can the Federal Government do to assist? 

Order! I call the honourable member for Prospect to order. 
-Is it the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith? 
I rise to report briefly to the Parliament and the people of Australia on the devastation caused by cyclone Alby to the south-west of Western Australia on Tuesday, 4 April. Nature put the people of Western Australia to their biggest test and uncovered a combination of fortitude and inadequacy. It was an unprecedented conspiracy of violence; a freak alliance of the country's traditional foes- storm, bushfire and flooding. Any one of these takes its toll but together they spell disaster. It was a disaster of extraordinary proportions which the emergency services and thousands of volunteers turned out to tackle on Tuesday 4 April. Farms and forests wiped out by fire and a trail of damage across the entire southwest of the State were the immediate statistics of loss. The greatest tragedy was the loss of life. Five people met their untimely death during the storm. To their families and friends I extend my deepest sympathy. 
The massive power failure brought chaos and boosted the cost of the storm by closing shops and factories. The power failure, which blacked out the entire south-west of Western Australia, was caused by an uncontrollable build-up of salt and dust on insulators, which short circuited the power grid. Some areas were without power for many days following the cyclone. The vulnerability of power lines emerges as a cause for concern, though the scope for doing much about it is clearly limited. The importance of electricityour complete dependence on its use- becomes patently obvious when it is no longer there. One can certainly sympathise with the people of Victoria during their prolonged power strike last year. There were unusual circumstances, to say the least, which, I hope, will not be repeated. But if sand and salt can knock out the entire power grid one could speculate how vulnerable we would be to any attack on these installations. 
The vastness of the area affected is hard to believe. Cyclones usually cross the coast, depending on their intensity, and leave a thin line of destruction in their wake. In this instance the cyclone battered 500 miles of coastline from north of Geraldton to Cape Leeuwin. It penetrated some 300 miles inland in the southern areas. So, while no towns were affected as Darwin was by cyclone Tracy, the overall loss and damage are quite staggering when one remembers that the centre of the cyclone was 130 miles off the coast. I mentioned inadequacies earlier, one being that there was so little warning of the storm's intensity. The freak weather conditions provide much of the answer. The speed of the weakening cyclone confounded the weather men. Nonetheless, in an age of satellite surveillance it is a sobering thought that we are not as advanced as we may have thought in tracking weather trouble spots. It is doubtful whether much could have been done to offset the storm 's impact had a few extra hours notice been given. Fires would have raged as fiercely, roofs would have blown as far, sea water would have poured into homes. During a freak storm such as Alby all normal procedures are more or less rendered useless. The very high winds caused almost every fire burning in the open at the time to spread and move rapidly. At this time of the year a lot of burning off is carried out on private property and in the forest areas. The extreme winds and low visibility rendered aircraft and fixed lookout fire detection systems unusable and caused the dislocation of telephone communications and road access. In fact, one of the massive Karri trees usually used for fire detection was blown over. 
With every road closed by fallen trees, no power, no telephone, the initiatives which stemmed from control centres at Manjimup, Kirup, Harvey, Como and numerous bushfire brigades and volunteers in the south-west were, to say the least, exceptional, as was the courage and determination displayed. It was necessary to depend upon local initiatives for many hours and the effectiveness of the fire supression efforts resulted in minimising fire size and damage. The radio network of the Forest Department was of the utmost importance during the emergency, together with radios of the bushfire brigades winch were, for many hours, the only means of communication for co-ordinating the efforts of fire fighting forces. Emergency services activated on Tuesday night involved support from the Army, Special Air Services, police and main roads and local government authorities. The volunteer brigade and Bush Fire Board officers were, of course, involved much earlier on Tuesday. The fire fighting efforts by the Forest Department staff and volunteers from the Bush Fire Brigade organisations received valuable support from men and equipment of the timber industry, Collie miners, Greenbushes Tin Co., numerous shires and other rural groups. Most of these people worked without rest through Tuesday night and Wednesday. Fortunately, the cyclone was followed by a small amount of rain and this aided fire control efforts. 
There were something like 78 fires raging accompanied by winds of 120 kilometres an hour during that period. It was remarkable really that only 31,500 hectares were burnt out. Some people lost their entire properties- pastures, stock, fences, house and sheds. The heartbreak of that, I am sure need not be explained to honourable members. The Federal Government will naturally be called upon to provide assistance under the agreement with the States as follows: 
relief of personal hardship and distress . . . 
grants for the restoration of government, local and semi-government authority assets and facilities; semigovernment and local authorities are expected to bear a proportion of the cost of restoring their assets- generally onequarter of the expenditure involved up to the first $ 100,000 for each authority . . . 
loan assistance on concessional terms to primary producers to enable them to get back into operation where finance is not available from other sources and where they can, with such assistance, continue to operate successfully . . . 
rail rebates for primary producers for certain purposes and free carriage of donated food, clothing, etc . . . 
subsidies on road transport of fodder and stock . . . 
loans on concessional terms to small business enterprises . . . 
loans on concessional terms to churches, sporting bodies and other non-profit voluntary organisations . . . 
Despite this assistance I am afraid there will be many areas of hardship which are not covered by government assistance. For this reason the Lord Mayor of Perth has opened a Lord Mayor's Fund which I trust will attract the attention of members of this House and the public in the eastern States generally. 
Time does not allow me on this occasion to adequately deal with this disaster. There are many areas of hardship. There has been loss of income, particularly in the apple, dairying and vegetable growing industries, which should be more adequately described. Approximately 500 houses were flooded in the towns of Bunbury and Busselton. Facts and figures regarding these will come to light as proper assessments are made. 
There can be nothing but admiration for the human efforts at the height of the storm and since. From the long backbreaking struggle by firefighters to the small scale contributions, such as helping a neighbour to cover a torn roof, there were countless examples of the readiness of people to assist others in distress. In our part of the world which, by comparison with so much of the rest of the world, seems remote from strife, it was and is a reassuring demonstration of what can be achieved through concern for others. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate on both measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-During the Grievance Debate on Thursday, 13 April, I spoke to the House of the damage caused to the south western corner of Western Australia by Cyclone Alby, which struck that area on Tuesday, 4 April. It is now nearly a month since Cyclone Alby brought the trail of destruction through the south west of Western Australia and it is only now that a full picture of the damage emerges. On 13 April the Insurance Council of Australia reported that claims totalling $7m had been received, and that the final pay-out was expected to double this figure. Damage to public works, public buildings, port installations and foreshores and to the railway have been assessed at a total of $2,321,000. The State Energy Commission has lost $906,000 in repairs to lines and loss of sales. The Forest Department estimates direct fire fighting costs of some $250,000, whilst tree clearing and other public works could cost some $280,000. Some $5m worth of timber was contained in pine plantations affected by storm and fire. Although timber worth $lm may be salvaged, the cost of recovery will be some $600,000. 
It is in the rural sector that the most savage effects have been felt, and it is here that they will be felt longest in the form of continuing income loss to primary producers. Loss of apples in the Donnybrook-Bridgetown-Manjimup area is put at $2,500,000. Of an estimated 1,290,000 cases of apples in these three centres, only 490,000 remain on the trees. Of those remaining, no more than one third are suitable for export, so it becomes uneconomic to sort through the apple crop, and the export crop for this year becomes a total loss. 
Other statistics of the Western Australian Agriculture Department tell their own grim story- 40,000 hectares of pasture, 1,000 kilometres of fencing and 1 50,000 bales of hay were lost, and 450 cattle and 9,000 sheep perished. It is really remarkable that the losses were so small, considering that at the height of the storm some 78 fires were raging, with winds driving them at anything up to 140 kilometres per hour. Twenty farm houses and 75 sheds were destroyed. Such cruel damage to farmers affects the whole rural community. I note that 100 fruit pickers at Donny brook alone were reported laid off on 20 April. Of course, some damage to farms cannot even be assessed. The storm was a dry storm and the loss of topsoil over vast areas, as I say, cannot be assessed. One estimate of lost future production through loss of nutrients in the soil goes as high as $40m. That amount divided among 5,000 farmers works out at each receiving about $8,000. This loss of topsoil creates serious problems in such areas as Katanning in the eastern section of my electorate, but that area did not really suffer fire damage. 
It is of some regret to me that the enormity of the damage and the tragedy caused by cyclone Alby has not been recognised throughout the community at large, especially the community in the eastern States. The loss of life, the flooding, the fires, and the severity of the winds led to a situation in which for many days in many areas there were no communications. Before these areas were back in communication the national Press had lost interest in cyclone Alby. I made personal representations to all the lord mayors of Australia in an endeavour to establish a lord mayors' fund in each State. Their judgment, perhaps quite rightly, was that, because there was a lack of information in the eastern States and a lack of awareness of the tragedy, they did not think that they could successfully run a lord mayors' appeal. I know that the Federal Government is acting in a proper manner in making arrangements with the States in relation to national disasters such as this. But there are many areas in which the Government cannot play an effective role. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It concerns the announcement by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that the Government would take action to reintroduce the petroleum freight subsidy scheme which operated from 1965 until it was abandoned by the Labor Government in 1974. When does the Minister anticipate this undertaking will be honoured. In particular, will he give an indication as to when the subsidy will be available to motorists in the remote areas of Australia? 
I should like to speak firstly about the Whaling Amendment Bill and particularly comment on the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I think it is noteworthy that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  while speaking on this subject did not even pronounce the name of the town involved as the people in Western Australia do. He called it All-bany; people in Albany or in Western Australia call it Albany. I suggest that he knows as much about the whaling industry as he knows about how to pronounce the name of the town. He may not be aware that a great deal of activity is going on within the fishing industry in the area of Albany. He suggested that just by making another amendment which proposes to guarantee increased marine resources, employment in the Albany region would be improved. He overlooks the fact that today a very large fish factory, supported by three trawlers that have come out from Great Britain, is almost commissioned. That represents a total investment of some $1 1.5 m. This does not necessarily take up the unemployment in this regional town. We cannot say that because we Will do this, therefore the unemployment situation is solved. 
In response to the proposed amendment I should like to say a few words about the whaling industry in Western Australia. While the Whaling Amendment Bill may be basically of a technical nature it necessarily raises an issue of basic concern to Albany and the electorate of Forrest. A viable, responsible and vital industry in the town of Albany has come under increasing threat from outside pressure that is well-intended but invariably Ul-informed. I suggest that that is the case with the Australian Labor Party. I remind honourable members that the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company is the second largest single employer of labour in Albany. Of its 105 employees only 10 are engaged on a casual basis. Directly or indirectly over 100 families depend for their livelihood on the whaling industry. If it is forced to close down, there is no absolute guarantee of immediate re-employment of those people. 
Another aspect of the fishing industry is the local cannery. It is in some difficulty at the moment. It has been suggested that the anticipated development of deep sea trawling will solve the employment problem. This ignores the essential difference between trawling and whaling. With trawling men can be at sea for up to 50 days, whereas with whaling the catches work on a daily basis. The people of Albany made their feelings very clear when expensively equipped protesters from interstate and from overseas tried to disrupt the whaling operations last year. 
On April 24 of this year the  Albany Advertiser  reported that the Albany Conservation Society had deleted from its platform all reference to the phasing out of whaling, principally because of concern for workers in the Albany region but also perhaps because they live a little closer to it and they understand the proposition that the International Whaling Commission and the whalers put forward. It is unfortunate that other conservation bodies choose to ignore the conservation of jobs. That is an overlooked but vital factor in preserving the quality of life in rural areas. The conservation movement must learn to develop a social conscience. Also it is not helpful to suggest that the Cheynes Beach whaling installation can be converted into a marine laboratory when scientists have declared the site to be unsuitable and when adequate laboratory facilities already exist in Western Australia and throughout Australia generally. 
Whilst the importance of whaling to the people of Albany is obvious, the general economic significance of the industry is worthy of comment. The chief products derived from whaling are sperm oil and fish meal. Very little of the animal is wasted. Sperm oil has a vital use in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and in high temperature/pressure situations it is a necessary additive to fossil fuel oils to produce viscosity. No matter what is said, no other oil is produced which has the range of sperm oil. Some oils produced have one-third of the range, but no other oil produced in the world has the range of  sperm  oil in pressure/temperature situations. Oil from the jojoba bean is not, for economic reasons, a viable substitute, as stocks will be used rather as a substitute for more expensive materials. As a protein source, whale meal is an important stock and poultry feed supplement, supplying some 10 per cent of Western Australia's needs. To substitute fish meal would be to divert a valuable food source away from human consumption- an action of questionable morality in an undernourished world. 
Despite the validity of these arguments, it would be hard to justify whaling if indeed the operations of the Cheynes Beach company were leading to the destruction of sperm whales as a species. But the facts must be seen in perspective. The company operates under the stringent conditions laid down by the International Whaling Commission, whose very objective is to control over-exploitation of the whale. Endangered species are protected, and other species, notably the sperm whale, are harvested under the principle of maximum sustainable yield. Maximum sustainable yield is related to the number of young males and females which may be taken without preventing the natural increase in the numbers of the species. Whales smaller than 9 metres or larger than 13.6 metres cannot be taken, and are not taken. 
-International inspectors. At Cheynes Beach whaling station there is a young man from America who is a member of the International Whaling Commission, although America is not a whaling nation. However, the American Department of Agriculture sent an inspector to Albany. He has oversight over everything that is done at the Albany station. The maximum sustainable yield concept protects both young whales and the mature adults of reproductive age. The initial depletion of stocks a generation ago has resulted in larger food reserves, which in turn has resulted in more rapid reproduction and maturity, with more young animals entering the population. It is worth noting also that the harvesting of more numerous species assists depleted and endangered varieties by reducing pressure on food resources. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Commonwealth Government to police the conventions of the International Whaling Commission within the new 200-mile fishing zone. It therefore enables Australia to play its full part in a process of responsible environment management. Under the terms of the IWC conventions, so long as member nations abide by its strict conventions, such fishing zones are open to whaling fleets of those nations. 
Criticism is often made of the killing methods used in whaling, yet an explosive harpoon causes a death that is almost instantaneous. Even if a second harpoon is necessary, the whale does not suffer for more than a few minutes. It seems inconceivable to criticise methods that are just as humane as are those used in abattoirs around the country. Indeed, the whale does not have to endure the smell of blood and the sense of panic that sheep and cattle may experience in an abattoir. Nevertheless, research, with Australia in the forefront continues towards finding yet more humane methods of killing whales. Nature is itself cruel and does not allow animals, in their wild state, to decline into peaceful old age. 
Finally, it would be futile to debate the question whether all killing of whales, endangered or not, is immoral. Attitudes to the subject are usually determined on an emotional rather than on a factual basis. I would merely state that those who claim that whales have an immensely high intelligence have yet to prove their point scientifically. It is my belief that whales are a valuable natural resource, to be studied, respected and responsibly harvested for the benefit of mankind. The Bill enables Australia to continue to play its part in the environmental management program of the IWC and to continue to foster an industry that, although it has a small effect on whale stocks, is of considerable importance to the southwest of my State. 
Turning to the other major Bill that we have before us tonight, the Fisheries Amendment Bill 1978, 1 have quite a deal of sympathy with the amendment that the Opposition has moved to it. 
The only difficulty I have is that it seeks to amend the motion for the second reading by substituting for all words after 'That ' the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House calls upon the Government to ensure that the guidelines determined by the Australian Fisheries Council in January 1977, to control foreign participation and give first priority to the local industry, are strictly observed. 
I know that the guidelines determined by the Council form a valuable document but I am not sure what input there was to its decision of January 1977 to adopt them. I suggest that if the Council were to have an opportunity to review the document it would have a lot more to contribute to it. To tie the Government down to strictly observing the guidelines in that document appears to me to be somewhat restrictive. The Government will certainly make its attitude known, but at this time the Opposition's proposal would appear not to be acceptable. 
I turn now to the amendment to the Fisheries Act. I trust that the creation of a 200 mile Australian fishing zone will herald- a great new era for the Cinderella fishing industry of Australia. The fishing industry has not enjoyed steady or substantial government support. It has not attracted the attention of private banks and the lending institutions to any marked degree. There has been little incentive for Australians to venture to new fishing areas not yet proven. That situation is changing rapidly since new markets, at home and abroad, have begun to emerge and since the 200 mile economic zone declarations in other areas of the world have reduced the available fishing areas for some of the high consuming nations. 
Speaking of markets, I point out that Australia imports fish products worth $70m a year. So, there is a great deal that our industry, with a little bit of encouragement, can gain in this country. This situation is a great challenge to the Australian fishing industry and to the Commonwealth Government to see that this vast new area of responsibility is developed and managed sensibly to the basic benefit of the Australian fishing industry and, of course, to the Australian people. Our industry and government will have to assess the resources of the Australian fishing zone and determine the total allowable catches of those resources. It is our responsibility to manage these resources to ensure that they are conserved for optimum use of mankind, now and in the future. It is a massive undertaking. The urgency of the task is demonstrated by many reported submissions from countries or organisations wishing to have fishing rights or joint ventures established in our area of responsibility. I recommend that we hasten slowly in making arrangements involving fishing personnel from other countries. At all times we should effectively canvass our own industry for its assessment of the implications and decisions which are made. 
With some forms of practical encouragement by the Government, our industry may be able to utilise different areas. Practical assistance has been demonstrated by the Government in the recent announcement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in conjunction with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that a relaxation of present vessel import policy will enable Australian fishermen to obtain large, second-hand fishing vessels from overseas for developmental work in Australia. I would like to see this policy expanded. For too long the fishing industry has been subsidising the shipbuilding industry of Australia which has been retarding the growth of what could be a wealth producing primary industry and which will, in the future, employ many hundreds of people. To prop up an industry which, by any international standards, is inefficient is not my idea of good economic management. 
There are obvious gaps in the finance which, in the coming period, will work to the detriment of the local industry. Funding by the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia and by the Primary Industries Bank will provide substantial assistance which has not hitherto been available and which will be critical to the development of the fishing industry in its new found responsibilities. There are many other aspects of interest in the amendment and in the whole question about the Australian Government taking the responsibility to create a 200-mile fishing zone around Australia. I am conscious of the fact that further speakers on this Bill from the Government side of the House will be covering these matters and enlarging on some of the comments which I have made in my brief speech tonight. The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who is listed to speak later in the debate is  chairman  of the subcommittee of the rural committee of back bench members of the Liberal Party. He, with other members of the committee, has investigated and made a fact finding study of this matter. I am delighted that he will be speaking later in this debate because he will have the opportunity to cover the areas that I have not been able to cover. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  is a well known authority on the fishing industry and on surveillance problems and he will be covering those subjects on behalf of Government members as the debate proceeds. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the recent events in Zaire. Can the Minister give any details about the Congo National Liberation Front, the group which carried out the attack on Kolwezi? Were Cuban troops involved in the attack? Were any Australians in the Kolwezi area at the time of the attack? 

Before the debate is resumed on this Bill and on the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I remind the House that it has been agreed that a general debate be allowed covering this Bill, the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Amendment Bill and the Whaling Amendment Bill. I call the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Does the honourable gentleman claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Australian delegation to the International Whaling Commission's meeting in London next month, and I ask the Minister whether the Government proposes to provide financial support to the conservation group Project Jonah to enable the group to have an observer on the delegation? Is the Government aware that the representative chosen by Project Jonah is not an Australian citizen? If so, does the Government still intend to provide financial assistance to Project Jonah? 
-It is now almost 12.45 p.m. In accordance with Standing Order 106 the debate is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Newman)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the consideration of order of the day No. 1, government business (Grievance debate), being continued until 1 p.m. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FiitzPATRICK (Riverina) (12.15)- I want to inform the House that in the near future this Parliament will be called upon to make a decision that will vitally affect the viability of three of our rural industries and some of our best rural towns. I speak of the dried vine fruit industry, the wine grape industry and the citrus industry, all of which of course are interdependent industries. In 1976 the Industries Assistance Commission brought down a report on the dried fruit industry which indicated an over-supply in world markets. This, together with rising costs, meant that the industry faced a very bleak future. Early in 1976 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  informed this House that considerable adjustment, with regional implications, would be necessary. I notice two reports in a publication called the  Rural Industry Information Papers  which support the views of the Minister. The February 1 977 issue of this document states: 
. in Sunraysia, SS per cent-65 per cent of commercial dried fruit properties have either little prospects of viability, or require farm redevelopment to make them viable. 
. 'a major reorganisation of the industry is therefore inevitable'. 
I notice that there has been some amendment in the  Rural Industry Information Papers  of March 1978 which states: 
The Industries Assistance Commission in its Report on Fruit Growing commented that in Sunraysia 30-40 per cent of present dried vine fruit producers have little prospect of viability as full-time fruit growers. 
The paper does not quite explain why there are two different percentages. One would hope that not that many growers have left the industry in the intervening time. Obviously, it would be quite foolish for any dried fruit producer not to take any notice of these warnings. I am happy to be able to report to the House that this forecast was not entirely correct. Due to the failure of the Californian dried fruit crop there was an undersupply instead of an oversupply on the world market. As a result the dried fruit growers have had a breathing space. As a matter of fact they have had one good year and it looks like another good year is coming up. I think the House will be pleased about that because 3,800 farms depend on the viability of the dried fruit industry which, of course, is highly mechanised and efficient. 
If we think of the towns that depend upon the industry I believe that no one in this House would want to see the industry fail. But this could happen unless the Government does something to protect the industry. I say this because the industry is closely allied to the citrus industry and the wine grape industry. Many farms have a mixed production of all these fruits. I am particularly concerned about another IAC recommendation which, if adopted by the Government, will not only knock this industry but also will cause a lot of disruption in many rural towns. I refer to the April 1978 issue of the  Australian Citrus News.  At page 3 we read that the tariff on orange juice, according to the Industries Assistance Commission, should be reduced from 65 per cent to 20 per cent. This tariff might look to be substantial, but the problem is that fruit juices are coming into this country in a concentrated form of 8!4 to one, and this gives a distinct advantage to the supplying countries due to the importance of freight in price competition. We read also that orange juice from Brazil this very month was imported into the country at 15c a litre. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics informs us that supply/demand will be back to normal by 1979 and that there will be a further reduction to 13c a litre in the price of imported fruit juices. How much will this return to the grower when we consider that processing costs are 8c a litre and sundry costs 3c a litre, with the ad valorem tariff of 20 per cent? At 455 litres to the tonne this would give an equated return to the grower of $48 per tonne. However, the Australian Citrus Growers Federation maintains that based on the 1978 cost movement, the efficient grower requires a minimum return of $100 per tonne if the industry is to have any chance of retaining its viability. I claim that the dried vine fruit industry, the wine grape industry and the citrus industry have proven that they are efficient and produce high grade fruit, but they have had more than their share of trouble in recent times. 
If we look at the wine grape industry we find that in the Leeton-Griffith area in my electorate there are 19 wineries crushing 75,000 tonnes of grapes, and I am sad to inform the House that during the 1978 vintage period we had an oversupply of grapes of 10,000 tonnes. I would like to read some passages from a letter I have received from the Wine Grape Marketing Board, to inform the House how concerned that Board is about this matter. They are in these terms: 
The income from grapes represents nearly $ 10,000,000 or some 43 percent of total horticulture income. 
In terms of money the importance of the industry to growers, wineries and business in general is obvious. 
In terms of employment, the demand for labour which the industry generates only demonstrates the necessity of the industry to the Area. 
For the first time in the history of wine grape growing there was a genuine surplus for the 1 978 vintage. 
Approximately 10,000 tonnes were processed on behalf of the Board to spirit and grape juice. Growers will not be paid for this processed fruit until the end product is sold. 
I point out to the House that this will leave the growers, who are already suffering a fair amount of economic depression, without the funds which are vitally needed. It is obvious that these industries have to compete against low standard products produced in heavily subsidised countries. If one takes into consideration the delay of this Government in doing something about the high salinity content of the river- and I am very appreciative of the Minister's reply today because it will give some encouragement to these peopleone can understand why these people believe that the Government has little concern for them or about their success or failure. I ask the Government to make some definite statement on these matters to give some indication that the Government really cares for the people in this area. I believe there has been a lack of information, and I was pleased when the Minister today made a very clear statement. 
Certainly these are interrelated industries. They have had a series of bad years but they have proved that they can compete. They have proved that they are efficient. I ask the Government to make some definite statements. The study of the citrus industry by the Industries Assistance Commission will affect all these other industries because they are interrelated and we must act quickly to give some assurance to the industries that we intend to do something to assist them. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It was not my intention to speak to this Bill because I know that the House will be pressed for time to get legislation through in the next couple of days before the end of the parliamentary session. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  is a good old friend of mine. He is one of the genuine people on the Opposition side of the Parliament. But he quite disappointed me tonight in the way that he raised certain matters in this debate. On the one hand he was trying to say that this matter should be beyond party politics, but on the other hand he was not recognising- in fact the Opposition amendment confirms this- that the Australian Labor Party has not come up with any alternative. All it is trying to do by its amendment is to put a wedge into the frail situation which the Government certainly admits exists in the dairy industry in Australia today. 
The Labor Party, for one reason or another, has no alternative to this legislation. Members opposite have referred to the lack of consultation with State governments and the dairy industry and dairy producer authorities. But this is just not true. As we know, during the last two years, and particularly in the last year, there have been many meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council on this very subject. The greatest possible consultation has taken place and it is a great disappointment to members on this side of the House that for reasons we understand there was no way by which the industry and the States could decide on a plan. I congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for going ahead and virtually saving this industry from the certain self-destruction that it seems to wish. 
We know how difficult it has been for the Government to produce this Bill. I admit quite frankly that the legislation probably suits no State or no diary producer. One could almost say that the dairy industry is one of the favoured rural industries in Australia. The Federal Government is underwriting its operations to a massive extent. At the same time, this legislation still will not please most people in the industry. In particular, it does not suit Western Australia. We would rather have had the original stage 2 proposition. 
Let me tell honourable members why this is the case. Western Australia is in a position different from that of most other States, mainly because it has a very small manufacturing industry. If there are to be further cuts in Western Australian manufacturing industry, a certain position is likely to develop in times of stress. This became very evident when cyclone Alby struck the west and south coast of Western Australia on 4 April 1 978. After 6 hours of winds, there was a shortage of fresh milk in Perth during the following days. In Western Australia, at time of stress, we are extremely close to not having enough milk to supply the fresh milk market in Perth. Further cuts in the manufacturing side of our industry in Western Australia could mean that in the period immediately ahead- next year or the year after- we could be in a position of not having enough milk to supply the Perth fresh milk market. The producers in Western Australia argue, quite legitimately I believe, that there should be no cut in the Western Australian manufacturing entitlement. I have risen in the debate on this occasion to put that point to the House and to say that States such as Western Australia are participating in the legislation reluctantly. We hope that the other States, in particular the major producing State of Victoria, recognise that this industry is receiving a tremendous amount of Commonwealth support. Such States should endeavour to tidy up their affairs and to play the game on a national basis. 

There is no point of order. 
No one likes to lose such a close and valued colleague. All of us in Government feel that way about our colleague. But nothing that has been said today by the Opposition has shown that either the Government or the Prime Minister acted wrongly in the course that was taken from the moment this matter was brought to their attention, from the moment it became apparent that some kind of inquiry had to be undertaken, firstly at the hands of the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General and subsequently at the hands of the Royal Commissioner. 

Order! The Deputy Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
On what grounds does the honourable member wish to make a statement? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations any information for the House on the national wage case decision? 

Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

The discussion has concluded. 
-Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce inform the House when the Government will be legislating to extend the export market development grants scheme to the travel and tourist industry? Is he at this stage able to give the House and the industry an indication of the way in which the scheme will operate? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  on his contribution to this debate. I believe that he has opened up a matter of deep concern to the rural industries, and I trust that what he has said tonight will not be taken lightly by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, or by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I can assure the honourable member that, on the basis of what he has said, he has a tremendous amount of sympathy from me personally and I should think from this side of the Committee. It is a matter that should be looked at in the detail that he would like to see. 
It should be a matter of concern to primary producers in my State that only about 6 per cent of the national rural research effort is spent in Western Australia, which produces 1 6 per cent of the gross national rural production. I must stress at the outset that it is not mere parochialism to urge that funds be spent in greater proportion to the value of the State's production. Much of the money used for rural research comes from growers' levies, particularly in regard to wheat and wool, and surely they are entitled to receive value for money. At present Western Australia is getting only one-fifth of what it might expect from an allocation of growers' levies on a production value basis. Further, it must be emphasised that in this vast country, with different soil and climatic conditions, research done outside our rather isolated State may well have no application to our rural problems. For example, it has been estimated that only 28 per cent of research by the Australian Wool Corporation in 1975-76 was fully relevant to Western Australia and 40 per cent was quite irrelevant. Western Australia, if anything, requires special consideration in the provision of research funds because its agriculture is still in a pioneer phase. The value of overall production doubled in the five years between 1971 and 1976. Of the 15 million hectares of agricultural land, seven million have been brought into production in the last 20 years. By the year 2000 a 25 per cent increase in cleared land and a 30 per cent to 40 per cent increase in livestock in the State is estimated, provided, of course, that proper research facilities are forthcoming. 
Western Australia's rural industries are very much export based. They accounted for approximately 20 per cent of national rural exports in 1975-76. While the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation budget for agriculture is between $50m and $60m per annum, only $ 1.5m is spent in Western Australia. Three of its divisions, plant industry, entomology and product processing, are not represented in Western Australia. The State Department of Agriculture undertakes 75 per cent of the rural research and 80 per cent of its funds is supplied by the State. The State's population limits the size of the Department of Agriculture and institutions such as universities can only do so much. This may well accord with the realities of a small population and the pattern of Federal-State relations but not with economic realities. In particular, the light soils of Western Australia demand sustained long term research. That is not recognised by the Industries Assistance Commission in its attitude to flexible financing. 
In 1975-76 Western Australia received 1 1 per cent of Commonwealth extension service grants, another shortfall by any production standards. Western Australia produces around 35 per cent of the national wheat crop. In 1 977-78 it received 21 per cent of Wheat Industry Research Council distributions. The shortfall in this respect is less apparent as 2 1 per cent of the funds are allocated to special research in the Australian Capital Territory and the grower levy of 1 5 cents per tonne is distributed in the State of its collection. Nevertheless, the three smaller wheat producing States, South Australia, Victoria and Queensland, are, to some extent, being subsidised. However, the Wool Research Trust Fund operates differently from its wheat counterpart insofar as both grower levies and the matching Commonwealth contribution are pooled with no provision for the grower levy to be spent in the State of collection. Western 
Australia, with nearly 25 per cent of the nation's wool production, normally receives only 9 per cent of the Australian Wool Corporation's grants. That is less than Queensland receives although it has one third the number of sheep. 
The research funds of smaller agricultural industries tend to operate on a similar basis to that of wool research. In such fields as dairying, chicken meat, poultry and the meat and pig industries, Western Australia's share of research moneys is invariably far below its percentage of national production. This direction of research funds away from Western Australia results basically from the fact that funds tend to flow to those States with existing large research staffs and facilities, regardless of production. This was actually the declared policy of the Wool Research Trust Fund in 1962. 1 also note that the relatively satisfactory allocation of wheat research funds may be related to the fact that Western Australia is represented on the Wheat Research Council. No such representation exists on the other bodies. 
I reiterate that there is some feeling in Western Australia that the CSIRO does too little agricultural research in a State with so high a productive potential. It is not sufficient to argue that the research it does in other parts of the Commonwealth will assist Western Australia. Regional studies have regional application. What is disturbing is the trend for the CSIRO to wind down rural research in Western Australia as the Division of Land Use based in Perth is more concerned with environmental and recreational aspects. The inadequacies of research in a vital sector of national primary production need no further elaboration. There is a basic requirement for a greater degree of direction by State-based bodies. I have explained already that 75 per cent of Western Australia's rural research is in the hands of the State Department of Agriculture. Certainly there should be a general application of the principle that moneys obtained from grower levies should be spent in the State where collected and allocated by committees with grower participation and control. Moreover, matching Commonwealth contributions should be allocated by committees in each producing State but without the requirement that all available funds should be spent within the State. Thus, projects with a truly national character in other States would receive support. 
To give effect to these principles eight Federal laws would require amendment. Allocation of research funds on this basis, using 1975-76 data, would give Western Australia an extra $ 1 .5m per annum. If export earnings and future potential were taken into account Western Australia would receive substantially more than this. To allow the continuation of a situation in which a vital sector of Australia's primary production is deprived of its rightful and necessary share of research funds is hardly desirable and, to my mind, not creditable. The Acts that would need amending are those controlling the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee, the Dried Fruits Research Committee, the Australian Meat Research Committee, the Pig Industry Research Committee, the Poultry Research Advisory Committee, the Dairying Research Committee, the Central Tobacco Advisory Committee and the Australian Wool Corporation. One does not have many opportunities to speak in this House so I do not raise this matter lightly. It appears to me that in all equity the wealth producing State of Western Australia, in this matter in particular but also in some other matters, does not receive the consideration given to some of the more populous States. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.38)-The Estimates for the Department of Primary Industry total $109,256,000, a small increase on the amount appropriated last year, but the primary producers in my electorate fear that the actual amount spent in 1978-79 will be less than that spent in 1977-78. They fear this because of the slow progress in allocating the funds appropriated. Last night the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  spoke on the estimates for the Department of National Development. He appealed to the Federal Government and State governments to make a genuine effort to preserve the Murray River for future generations. I make a similar appeal tonight, not only for future generations but also for this generation. Many primary producers in my electorate fear that any benefit they will gain from this Budget will be wasted unless something is done urgently in regard to the salinity in the Murray River. 
In answer to a question that I asked the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  following the introduction of the Budget, the Minister informed me that $2. 26m was provided in the Budget for the elimination of the salinity problem. One of the items included in that appropriation was the tube wells at Wakool. The people in that area are in pretty serious circumstances. They have pointed out to me that their fear is that the year will pass and this money will not be spent because there is no clear indication of when the work will commence. I ask the Minister to make a clear statement on this matter and to ensure that the member concerned receives a copy of the statement first. I think it only democratic that a member who represents an area should not be put in the position of being told, as we are sometimes, of a news report in some newspaper way out in the bush. We are sometimes put in the situation of being asked about a matter and not knowing anything about it. I do not think that is democratic. I believe that more attention should be given to this matter. 
Whether we are satisfied with the appropriation or whether we think it is being reduced, I do not think that is the main issue. What the man on the land is concerned about is that the general policy matters covered by this appropriation make his farm more productive and viable. In other words, are things getting better or worse for those directly concerned with our primary industries? To answer that question I think we should look at the publication entitled:  Rural Industry Information Papers  of March 1978. In paragraph 2 at page 9 under the heading ' "BAE Trends". Extract from March 1978 Issue' that publication states: 
Aggregate farm income in 1977-78 is forecast to decline by 6 per cent to $ 1,900m. If the rate of inflation were assumed to be around 8 per cent in 1977-78, then real income per farm is estimated to fall by 1 1 per cent. 
I point out that an estimated fall in farm income of 1 1 per cent indicates a pretty serious trendone that would justify the Government providing more assistance to our primary industries. The primary producers in my electorate have told me that unfortunately their income is falling at a rate much faster than that estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Whether one believes that the BAE trends are right or whether one takes more notice of the primary producers, I think one should remember that this forecast was made before the Budget was introduced. Of course the trend would be much worse in regard to fall in income for primary producers if one were to include the added cost resulting from the fuel price hike. I suggest that those people who think that the March issue of the publication  Rural Industry Information Papers  is not uptodate should have a look at the first birthday edition of the  National Farmer  dated 18 September to 14 October. An article headed 'Farm viability shock' states: 
Thirty per cent of Australian wheat/sheep and 25 per cent of high rainfall zone farms face severe financial difficulties in the near future according to a Government document. 
The report, a study by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, contrasts sharply with the optimistic outlook for the farm sector espoused by the Federal Government. 
It presents a horrifying scenario which shows that in spite of some improvement in farm product prices, the sector will continue to suffer intense pressure to adjust and that many  farms will go to the wall, while others will diversify their investment resources out of agriculture or take off-farm jobs. 
It confirms farmers' own expectations of the future in two national  Farmpolls  which showed that at least a quarter of producers believed they will be off their property within ten years, while a massive 38 per cent of the sector continues to exist purely on income earned off the farm. 
That is a very tragic outlook for our farming sector. I believe it is a matter to which the Government should give every attention, and in those areas in which it can stop this drift, it should do so. 
I refer now to the 65 per cent ad valorem tariff on imported orange juice and the decision of the Industries Assistance Commission to replace it with a 20 per cent duty. The growers have told me that they need to receive at least $100 per tonne to remain viable. If this IAC report is endorsed by the Government they will have to compete with this imported juice and they will have to sell their fruit at $67 per tonne. That would ruin many of the towns from Renmark down to Leeton and Griffith as well as other towns including Wentworth. The Sunraysia area would also be ruined. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is aware of this situation because he has recently announced that the "65 per cent tariff will be continued until February. That is not sufficient for the citrus fruit producers to be confident of the future. They have to plan for the future. 
I have been told that the citrus growers of Australia have provided evidence and internation to the Industries Assistance Commission and made submissions to it. The growers were dismayed when the draft report came out, because no notice seemed to have been taken by the Industries Assistance Commission of any of the submissions of the growers. The feeling was that it was all a public relations exercise to cover up the already pre-conceived ideas of the commissioners whose basic philosophy was to reduce tariffs and to produce cheaply no matter what the circumstances. I ask the Government to look very closely at this matter because this industry is closely connected with the dried fruit industry. 
It was gratifying to hear the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  speak tonight on the brandy industry, because that industry is also closely connected with the citrus industry and the dried fruit industry. They are interrelated industries. Some of the growers devote 50 per cent of their blocks to wine grapes, a small area to the growing of dried fruit and another area to the growing of citrus fruit. I wish to refer once again to the publication  National Farmer.  An article headed 'Brandy Tax Storm' states: 
There is mounting anger and frustration among the thousands of small family grapegrowers of the South Australian Riverland as they face another year of poverty and hardship. 
I inform the Committee that that problem extends much further than South Australia; it reaches into my electorate and it rightly concerns people in the Riverina area. I ask the Government to have a good look at these matters and to take every precaution to see that the situation is not made worse for the man on the land. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin) 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs seen a report alleging that the Government has failed to honour its obligations in accordance with the United Nations Security Council resolution in relation to Rhodesia; that it is in fact admitting Rhodesians contrary to that resolution; and that the Government is using its program for the entry of IndoChinese refugees as a means of legitimising entry of Rhodesians? 
-I wish to devote my time to a matter of public expenditure that is minor but which relates directly to a question of great national importance. I refer to the appropriation for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the allocation of $350,000 to unspecified conservation organisations. One of the bodies that benefit from the taxpayers purse is the Australian Conservation Foundation. When the nature of the Australian Conservation Foundation is considered, other honourable members also may seriously question the propriety of giving that organisation one cent of the taxpayers' money. The statements and actions of the ACF over the past few years brand it as being a partisan and political organisation. It can have no claim to being an objective and impartial critic of environmental policy. It is committed to an antigrowth philosophy and implicit support of a radical restructuring of society to an extent that would alarm even some honourable members opposite. I do not say for one minute that such people as the ACF Director,  Dr Mosely,  have no right to express their points of view; but I do say that they should not do so at the expense of the taxpayers who supplied some 45 per cent of the funding for the ACF in 1 977. 
Direct funding is only one way in which my electors and the taxpayers generally are supporting the ACF. This organisation also benefits from the fact that donations to it are tax deductible. That is a considerable financial advantage that confers the imprimatur of total respectability. It is a concession that is not available to a great many charitable and benevolent organisations. Particularly disturbing are suggestions that other conservation organisations that are not in receipt of government grants are also sharing the privilege of tax deductible donations. Friends of the Earth, an extremist conservation organisation that was denied government funding in 1977, has solicited donations, claiming that they will be tax deductible if sent by way of the ACF. Project Jonah also has been reported as attempting to creep under this convenient umbrella. That does not please the constituents in my electorate, especially those who reside in the Albany region. I appreciate the fact that the Government has denied that tax deductibility is extended to these and other organisations, but I would ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to ensure that no donations are being collected through the agents of the ACF and then passed on to other bodies whose aims make no pretence of objectivity. Moreover, I earnestly request the Treasurer to withdraw the undeserved privilege of tax deductibility for donations to the ACF. 
Anyone who doubts the nature of the ACF need only examine its publications. In the ACF June newsletter, ACF councillor,  Mr K.  Vallance, openly proclaimed the political nature of conservation. A page is devoted to a satire of Lang Hancock. Whilst  Mr Hancock  may be fair game for criticism at times, there is no need for him to be ridiculed at the expense of the taxpayer. The August newsletter featured a call by 

 Dr Mosely for support for the anti bauxite lobbyist in Western Australia, quoting some spurious and questionable arguments as gospel. Needless to say, the ACF- and  Dr Mosely  in particular- has taken a hard line position against whaling. One would expect a responsible conservation body to back up its assertions with hard scientific evidence. But the June issue of  Habitat,  the ACF glossy magazine, boasts and antiwhaling article written not by a marine scientist or naturalist but by a trendy professor of philosophy from Monash University. An article in the August issue is more factual but it is the work of two individuals, Peter Brotherton and Joy Lee, whose activities as propagandists cast a doubt on their scientific objectivity. If a supposedly responsible conservation organisation funded by the public is going to intervene in such politically sensitive issues as whaling or bauxite mining, then the public will have a right to expect it to present a carefully researched and factual viewpoint. All we are getting is emotional propaganda which is preservationist rather than truly conservationist. 
I come now to the basic objection to public funding of the ACF. In every major controversy in which it has engaged- the Newport power station, Fraser Island sand mining, wood chipping and bauxite mining- it has sought to stop development of industries that create large scale employment or to shut down major export earners. Is the ACF so shortsightedly concerned for the slightest environmental damage that it totally ignores these questions? Alternatively, as I tend to believe, is the shutting down and strangulation of industrial growth the real objective of the radical conservationists who now control the ACF? 
I must confess to a deep interest in this question. Expansion of the bauxite industry, at a conservative estimate, will create something like 3,000 new jobs in the Forrest electorate. The sober assessments of the Western Australian Forestry Department do not indicate that mining will increase water salinity in the western slopes of the Darling Range where mining will be concentrated. A very full program of reafforestation by the mining companies is already enhancing both water catchment and the recreational value of the forest. Yet the ACF chooses to intervene on the side of the extremists whose arguments in relation to water salinity have been proved wrong time and time again.  Dr Mosely  calls upon the Federal Government to overrule the State Government and deny export licences for alumina. Truly, the ACF has embarked on a massive campaign of industrial sabotage- and the taxpayer is footing the bill. 
I must unreservedly endorse the statement of  Sir Charles  Court on 6 August when he declared that radical conservationism ignores the need for a balance between the needs of development and the environment. Job lobbies will have to be formed to meet the challenge of environmental lobbies.  Sir Charles  has put the matter into perspective. The voters who have returned this Government twice expect it to act to conserve jobs ahead of conserving sand mines, disease ridden forests and whales. People do want responsible environmental management which is not incompatible with responsible development, of which wood chipping and bauxite mining are prime examples. Let me quote one of the finest environmental scientists in Australia, Professor Des O'Connor. He defines conservation as: 'The planned management and wise use of nature's resources- as a whole as well as separately'. He is well aware of the disastrous effects that environmental extremists can have on the economy and on the average man's standard of living. 
What do the extremists say when taxed on the question of jobs? They prattle on about labourintensive industries. That is economic idiocy unless- and this is the significant point- one believes in Marxist solutions to economic difficulties. It is our labour-intensive industries that are in the most trouble today, yet the Marxist leadership of the extreme left Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Unions promotes it as an economic solution. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Australian Conservation Foundation, which last year was funded by the Federal Government to the tune of $150,000 or 45 per cent of the Foundation's budget, is the subject about which I would like to speak tonight. This organisation is developing a definite trend of preservation rather than conservation. Its solutions to the unemployment problem created by its actions in opposing any development would appear to be to promote the concept of labour-intensive industries. It is economic idiocy unless- and this is the significant pointone believes in Marxist solutions to economic difficulties. It is the labour-intensive industries in Australia today which are in the most trouble. Yet the Marxist leadership of the extreme Left promotes this as an economic solution. At the same time, it seeks to shut down some of our mining industries and other development industries within Australia which keep our economy afloat. Is it an accident that the Australian Conservation Foundation has established an organisation called Conservationists for Full Employment under the chairmanship of our best known communist, Jack Mundey? It is all so simple: Sabotage employment and export earnings under the guise of conservation and rebuild the shattered economy on Marxist lines. What has happened to the Austraiian Conservation Foundation is a classic example of the politicisation of non-government organisations by dedicated Left wing extremists who know how to manipulate genuine, if impracticable, idealists. 
The concept of the Australian Conservation Foundation is not unsound. There is a valued place for responsible, objective organisations concerned with sensible environmental management- and I say that as the representative of one of the most stunningly beautiful areas in Australia. But to fund the Australian Conservation Foundation in its present state is to mock the unemployed and in particular, is to mock this Government. Would you believe,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this organisation which could not survive without Federal Government fundingtaxpayers ' money- has the audacity to take out a writ in the High Court of Australia against the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  with regard to the tourist development at Yeppoon in Queensland. What a cheek! One sometimes wonders just what the heck we are on about. 
Earlier this year an inquiry was initiated by the Australian Government into Australia's involvement in whaling. Cheyne Beach Whaling Co., which is a legitimate Australian enterprise operating under a licence issued by the Australian Government and complying with international standards as set down by the International Whaling Commission- it is Australia 's only whaling company- found that it had to defend its position against the conservationists- in particular, against Project Jonah, which was offered and has been given funding by the Federal Government to the tune of $25,000 of taxpayers' money. It is true that similar funding has been offered to other organisations. I trust that the Cheyne Beach Whaling Co. will also be given the same amount. I know that it has cost the company far more than that amount to defend its position, which, as I have said, is to run a legitimate licensed enterprise under this Australian Government. 

Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

The debate is concluded. 

Order! There is no real substance to the point of order. 
AAA recommends in the strongest possible terms that the Government  rechart  its course in road expenditure, to provide; in real terms, an increasing level of road grants to the States. 
The Association referred to the Government's own report, the 1975 report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, which demonstrated that a five-year recommended program of road construction would return total benefits worth 3.9 times its costs. That was a report from inside the Department of Transport, not a comment from an outside organisation. 
The other matter which the Government overlooks completely- we believe it is part of the Government's deliberate policy- is the employment-generating capacity of road construction and maintenance. Studies that have been done on this subject show that 64 per cent of expenditure, direct and indirect, on road construction and maintenance goes to the employment of labour. If the Government were in any way genuine about wanting to reduce the level of unemployment it would be increasing the funds made available for road construction and maintenance. Instead of that, in consumer price index terms the Government is decreasing the funds. Correspondingly, the level of unemployment is increasing. 
I turn now for a moment to the fuel conservation aspects of road construction and maintenance. The decision of the Government to raise the price of petrol by 1 6c a gallon was put forward as being a means of bringing about a more efficient use of fuel- liquid energy- in this country. We were told that if the price went up substantially people would use that scarce resource more sparingly and there would be greater incentive for exploration companies to find further sources of supply. What needs to be repeated to the House is that from each $10 spent on petrol almost $5 goes to the Government. If we add to that, from the motorists' point of view, the 45 per cent import duty on new cars, the 15 per cent sales tax on cars, which as 1 work it out on a $7,000 car represents of the order of $625, we see that already motorists are extremely heavily taxed. 
The overseas record shows that where a pricing mechanism has been used in an attempt to ration the use of liquid energy- petroleum products- it has failed. The same will happen here because of the point I was making earlier, namely, that so many people in this vast country of ours do not have a choice in using a motor car; they have to use a motor car because no other means of transport is available. So all those people simply have to pay. The demand for petroleum products is properly defined as being highly price inelastic. In countries overseas where there have been substantial increases in the price of fuel some temporary dropping off in demand might have occurred in the early stages, but it has successively returned to the former level. 
If the Government were genuine in that approach not only would it be responsible for the increase in the price of fuel that has occurred but also, at the same time, it would be doing several other things. Firstly, it would be spending more money on roads because practice has shown that better road services provide better fuel economies for motor vehicles; better roads provide less delay; vehicles move more quickly; and less damage is caused to vehicles. However we are not providing better roads. Better roads also mean safer roads. They save lives, but the Government is not doing anything about that aspect either. So, the Government is not genuine in putting forward an attempt to try to conserve fuel as its justification for the increased price of fuel. 
I turn to the other complementary areapublic transport- and my colleague, the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  will deal with this at greater length a little later. In any properly managed and responsible fuel conservation program, the additional money that is being taken from motorists by way of fuel tax increases should be diverted to the upgrading and extension of public transport services. That is not happening. Funding in real terms for urban public transport in the 1978-79 Budget- the Budget as a result of which this Bill is introducedrepresents a fall of 46 per cent over the level of funding in 1976-77. So at whichever area we look, it is quite clear that the Government is not genuine in its claim that fuel prices have gone up in order to assist to conserve fuel and to enable greater exploration activity to take place. The schedules attached to the Bill provide details of the allocations to each of the States under the various categories of road construction. On page 66 of Budget Paper No. 7 there is set out in finer detail the provision of funding to each of the States and for the Commonwealth as well as the quotas to be met by each of the States in the year ahead. That information should be looked at in conjunction with the Bill and I seek leave of the 
House to have the tables incorporated in  Hansard.  I have not yet had a chance to show them to the Minister. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811091_47_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811091_48_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811091_48_6.jpg"></graphic>

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these four measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (3.46)-I have discussed the provisions outlined in the four dried vine fruit Bills which are before the House- they are the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Bill 1978, the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Bill 1978, the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill 1978 and the Dried Fruits Export Charges Amendment Bill 1978- with the growers and grower organisations in my electorate. Both the growers and the grower organisations seem to be unanimous in their support of the establishment of a statutory equalisation scheme for equalising market returns on dried raisins, dried currants and dried sultanas. They are also in agreement that the relevant statutory authority be restructured and be given additional powers, including that of administering the equalisation scheme. It appears from an examination of the four Bills that the legislation has been drawn up to achieve that purpose, namely, the establishment of a statutory scheme for equalising market return on dried fruit. 
Because these Bills have the support of the grower organisations, I believe that they will achieve the equalisation of market returns on dried currants, dried sultanas and dried raisins that are sold both on the domestic and export markets. This should remove some of the major grievances that have been bugging growers and packers of dried vine fruit for a long time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, said that he was dealing briefly with the reasons for introducing these measures. It appears to me that he has given a pretty clear explanation of the reasons for introducing these measures. I am happy to say that the reasons given are consistent with the wishes of the growers and grower organisations in my electorate. It is true that the voluntary scheme or system of equalising returns from the domestic and export outlets has been operating for over 50 years. However, the very fact that some packers and growers were getting higher prices by selling on the domestic market without carrying their share of the obligation to supply the export market at a lower price was undermining the value of this voluntary scheme. Because of this, the growers in my electorate have continually asked the Government to secure the equalisation system by placing it on a statutory footing. 
The principle of imposing a levy on the production of each variety of fruit in a season and of relieving from the levy fruit that is exported seems to me to be the best way in which to achieve this equalisation. It certainly has the approval of the growers. However, growers are keen to see that no loopholes are left in the Act. They require more information on what the Minister meant in his second reading speech when he stated: 
Fruit that is exported will be relieved from the levy as will also fruit which for some reason does not pass into commercial channels as packed fruit for human consumption. 
The growers want, as far as possible, all fruit to pass through the commercial channels. I would like to see no loopholes left in the Bill under which the scheme can be bypassed as was the old equalisation scheme. I ask the Minister whether he can give some explanation on that point. We have no objection to the equalisation payment being made payable to the producer of the fruit; that is, the dried fruit grower. However, we do see some danger in the remainder of the Minister 's statement in that paragraph. He goes on to say:   but packers will have a right subject to appropriate authorisation by the producer, to apply such moneys in their hands to discharge producer indebtedness to them, including indebtedness arising from costs and charges associated with the packing of a producer's fruit. 
Under the old scheme, growers often complained to me that because they were in debt to the packing sheds not enough of their money was released to give them a comfortable living. I see some danger in that situation and I hope that some safeguards can be written into the legislation to protect people in those circumstances. It is realised that provision must be made for exemption of some fruit from the levy. The example given by the Minister is certainly one of the classes of fruit that should be exempted. The Minister said that that class of fruit was dried fruit processed at certain packing establishments from fresh grapes by a relatively costly process of dehydration in tunnels. We know that small quantities of such fruit are produced to meet the requirements of specialty markets and because of the cost of the process it is not appropriate that the return for it should be equalized with dried vine fruit produced in the traditional manner, as this would place other growers at an unfair advantage. 
We have to ensure that care is taken to see that the exemption provisions do not get out of hand and that they are not extended in any way. We want some restriction kept on that exemption. The Opposition agrees that fruit exempted in this way is not entitled to an equalisation payment and exports, if any, would not participate in the export accounting arrangements. It is also noted that in particular circumstances a variety may be completely exempted from a levy in a season. Where this occurs, the equalisation mechanism is, in effect, put in abeyance for the variety for that season, as no equalisation payment would be payable and the system of transfers between the fund and the exporters would not operate. 
The examples given by the Minister of where this situation would apply seem to be very logical. They are: Where production of a variety falls to a level close to the Australian market requirements, where the differential between domestic return and assessed average export returns becomes marginal- that is, less than $20 per tonne- and where the assessed average export return exceeds the domestic return. In those circumstances there will be no need for the equalisation scheme. 
The Opposition sees no reason for the transfer of money in those cases. We agree that whether the marketing circumstances in 1979 will necessitate the application of the equalisation mechanism to that season is a matter for recommendation by the Corporation in due course. It does not appear to us that it will be necessary to apply the mechanism in 1979. However, there is a possibility that, through chance factors, very high export prices may be obtained in a particular season. It does not really remove the essential problem that statutory equalisation is designed to meet. The Opposition agrees that the dried fruits equalisation levy is necessary to meet the objectives of the dried vine fruits equalisation scheme and to impose a levy under certain conditions on the dried fruit that is produced in Australia. 
The Opposition also agrees that the Dried Vine Fruits Export Charges Amendment Bill 1978 is necessary, consequential to the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Bill 1978. The Opposition thinks that the Dried Fruits Corporation Bill represents a major change in the production and marketing of the dried vine fruits because it provides for the establishment of an Australian Dried Fruits Corporation to replace the Austraiian Dried Fruits Control Board which has been in existence since 1925. Although I suppose that overall it could be said that the Board did a fairly good job, there have been several complaints about it and the consensus seems to be that it is time for a change. Most of the growers seem to be satisfied with the set-up of the new Corporation which of course has only 8 members, compared with 11 members of the Board. 
It gives the opportunity for four members to be representatives of the growers. They will be selected from a panel by the Minister for Primary Industry. Two members will be ministerial appointments and will be persons who are specially qualified by reason of experience in marketing or promotion of dried fruits or other products or who have experience in commerce. The Opposition thinks that this is common sense. Not too many growers have this expertise to see that fruit is marketed properly. It is good to know that, in making these appointments, the Minister will consult the Australian Vine Fruits Association and other bodies that he considers are appropriate. The fact that all members will be appointed as part time members and that the term of office will be three years meets with the approval of Opposition members. We have found that one of the main complaints about the old system was that some people whom the growers did not like were on the Board, and it was a major operation to remove them. We think this provision is good. It seems to meet the general approval of the producers, as I have already mentioned. 
The revision of the Board to the Corporation will provide for a smaller and more compact body with a wider range of skills and expertise available. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, it will have wider powers and functions. It appears that the Minister has gone out of his way to produce a set of Bills that are consistent with the wishes of the producers. There is no doubt that this is of some satisfaction to the dried vine fruit producers because, as the Minister and anyone else who is connected with the dried fruit industry knows, the producers have had more than their share of problems in recent years. It is only because of the failure of crops overseas that many of them have been able to survive. The fact that dried fruit was being shipped over the border was causing some problem in the dried fruit area. The producers still have many other problems, including the problem of overproduction due to the lack of agreement about new planting between the various States. 
I point out that the dried vine fruit grower is not in this financial predicament through his fault. He had to face adverse seasons in 1971, 1973 and 1974, so much so that the Australian Dried Fruits Association made a submission to the Industries Assistance Commission. The recommendation was that the Commission inquire fully into the federal raisin insurance program for dried fruit producers in California so that it may be able to recommend to the Australian 
Government the establishment of a rain insurance program that would be appropriate to the Australian dried fruits industry. My mind goes back to last year when hail damaged a lot of the fruit in the Sunraysia district. The Board considered that if the industry had had suitable insurance during those adverse seasons it would not be in the financial predicament in which it is today. Further, it made a recommendation that consideration be given to the establishment of a food bank throughout the world in strategic centres, together with the provision of suitable transport and distribution facilities. 
This is another factor which is causing a great deal of problems for the Australian fruit growers because they have a fluctuating production level. Sometimes they do not grow enough fruit and at other times they have too much. They feel that if they could have this food bank it would have a cushioning effect. Unfortunately often they have had to cut off supply to their markets. So that they could supply the bigger markets, they have had to drop other markets altogether. With some kind of a food bank this problem could be overcome. I have already pointed out to the House the interrelationship between the dried fruits industry and the citrus juice industry. I have also indicated that the IAC has recommended that the 65 per cent ad valorem tariff on imported juices be removed and replaced by a 20 per cent duty. I point out that if this Government endorses the IAC's recommendation all the good work that is contained in these Bills will be wasted because the towns in the dried fruit growing areas are interdependent. Some farms produce citrus fruits as well as dried vine fruits. Many of those towns will be only half their present sizes if the IAC's recommendations are implemented. 
The growers of citrus fruit need $100 a tonne to produce the juice. If they have to compete with this lower standard imported citrus juice they would have to sell their fruit at less than $62 a tonne. I ask the Government to consider that point. I believe that all of us have some obligation to see that the dried vine fruits industry survives not only because some of our best inland towns depend on that industry for their survival but also because there are 5,500 dried vine fruit producers and 70,000 other people who are dependent on the industry. The history of the dried vine fruits industry has shown that it has always been able to adjust to a change in circumstances. Even at present it is earning valuable export income for the Australian Government. I ask the House not to overlook its problems because I think they are really worthy of consideration. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to the suggestion in this week's  Bulletin  that Australia can learn a lot from Israel's defence? Can the Minister inform the House whether any assessment has been made of this novel idea? 

Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Do you claim to have been misrepresented? 
Australians were brainwashed into believing that owning one 's home is the Australian thing to do. 
Of course, the quotation was made in this House by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins),  not the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Fremantle class patrol boat being built for the Australian Navy in the United Kingdom is nearing completion? Can the Minister advise the House whether a decision has been reached as to the type of gun to be fitted to the 15 new patrol boats? 
I do not wish to canvass the whole whaling argument again. Suffice to say that I believe that Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. Ltd, operating out of Albany in Western Australia, was carrying on a legitimate business under an Australian licence and was subject to international control through the International Whaling Commission. I believe that, with careful management leading to increasing stocks, the harvesting of whales for man's use is a legitimate endeavour. I content myself with the observation that the whaling industry in effect has been sacrificed to community sentiment as much as to an objective consideration of conserving whale stocks. 
It is very significant that, as is revealed at pages 190 and 191 of the report of the inquiry into whales and whaling, the Australian National Opinion Polls survey reveals that Western Australia was the one State to show support for the continuation of whaling. Another survey showed strong opposition in Melbourne to whaling, moderate support in Perth and massive endorsement in Albany. The further people were from the realities of the situation, the more they opposed whaling. It would not be unreasonable to suppose that, had more whaling stations been situated on the eastern seaboard as major employers of labour in a number of towns, perhaps larger towns than Albany, the conclusions of the inquiry might have been different and the pressure to hold such an inquiry might have been less. So much of the argument has been irrationally protectionist rather than seeking the management of a natural resource in a responsible manner. 
One aspect of the inquiry rankles me strongly. It is the decision of the Federal Government to award $25,000 to Project Jonah as compensation for costs in putting its case before the inquiry, and to award only $10,000 to Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. Ltd. That company, which is still basically the same organisation, despite today some change in the shareholding, incurred expenses far in excess of that figure and it might reasonably have expected to receive the same amount as Project Jonah. The conservation movement on an issue such as this does not lack numerous supporters. Yet Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. Ltd found itself carrying the burden of the whole scientific-ethical case in favour of the whaling industry almost alone. It meant that a massive extra expense had to be met by a legitimate business enterprise. Very few medium sized firms have been placed in a position of having to justify their existence at such expense. I believe that the Government still has this matter under consideration, so I urge it in all fairness to treat Cheynes Beach with equity. The Prime Minister said in his statement today: 
The Government 's decision represents a change in policy from one of conservative utilisation of whale stocks controlled by international agreement to one committed to a vigorous and active policy of protection. 
I think that every member of this Parliament would be aware that, in the years that the whaling industry has been conducted in Australia, it has been conducted within my electorate. After receiving the report of  Sir Sydney  Frost the Government came to its decision without reference to me or, to the best of my knowledge, without reference to the party room. That saddens me a little because in our style of government we are encouraged not to express disagreement with the policy that might be espoused by the Government before we take our disagreement to the party room, where the matter can be thoroughly thrashed out. 
The Government's decision is a decision of some magnitude. It is a change, I believe, in our approach to conservation. It is a change in decision-making. I wonder what the Government's attitude will be if the conservationists of the world turn their attention to, say, marlin fishing. The marlin is a beautiful wild creature of the deep ocean hunted by man for sport. What justification can there be for hunting and killing such a beautiful animal? I believe that whales served a great purpose in man's endeavours and were of use to all men. 
The Prime Minister's statement refers to a vigorous and active policy of protection. I wonder whether the Government has taken into consideration the needs of some of the great whaling nations of the world that for many generations have used the whale as a food supply. The Prime Minister also mentioned that satisfactory substitutes were readily available for nearly all whale products. I note that he said 'nearly all whale products'. I am not too sure for which ones there are no substitutes, but no oil which has been produced covers the range that sperm oil has the ability to cover. Within a certain pressure or temperature range another oil can do the job, but outside that range no other oil can do the job sperm oil does. It is used in spacecraft, high speed gear boxes, some surgical instruments and the like. 
It is not my intention to prolong this debate. I would like to say in conclusion that the Government may do what it will and, according to the Prime Minister's statement, have a total commitment to protect the whale so that present and future generations of Australians can have the opportunity of seeing these wonderful mammals in their natural habitat. I just wonder how many people have seen them in their natural habitat up to date. The Government may do as it will, but the realities of life have to be faced. If the whaling nations that are members of the International Whaling Commission believe that the whale stocks of the world are increasing and if they are unfairly denied their legitimate livelihood because of pressure from conservationists, we may well see the breakdown of the International Whaling Commission. Russia, Japan and others may withdraw. Where will that leave the International Whaling Commission? It will be just another conservationist body without any authority over the whalers of the world. Who then will monitor the whaling nations? I believe that Russia and Japan will still take a responsible attitude because they want to be in the business of whaling for ever. Other nations may not take the same attitude and then we may well see the demise of those wonderful mammals. 

There is no substance in the point of order. 
If one looks behind the meaning of that to people and looks at, for example, the deposit gap one will find that the deposit requirements in Melbourne were higher than they were in all other capital cities of Australia. To buy a house in Melbourne in 1976-77 a deposit of $15,300 was needed. It was estimated that it would take 12.6 years for a single income family and approximately two to three years for a dual income family to save enough for the deposit. In Sydney the deposit gap was less at $14,500 and in Adelaide it was only $9,600, compared with $1 5,300 for Melbourne. The deposit required to buy a house and land in Melbourne is 5 per cent higher than it is in Sydney and 37 per cent higher than it is in Adelaide. Melbourne has the highest deposit gap requirement in Australia. The source for those figures is volume I of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs. The deposit gap has increased beyond the means of the average family on less than average weekly earnings. 

Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting. 
If one looks at another statistic- the one for mortgage repayments- one will find that more Victorians pay higher monthly mortgage repayments than Tasmanians, South Australians and Queenslanders. In Tasmania, 60.3 per cent of the mortgage repayments are less than $100 a month. In South Australia it is 59.7 per cent and in Queensland it is 48.9 per cent. In Victoria only 46.3 per cent pay less than $ 100 a month in mortgage repayments. This Government has made a tremendous amount of play over the last two years about interest rates. Interest rates, as we all know, have recently been increasing. Despite public calls for a reduction in interest rates, the Premier of Victoria, in tow with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  supported the increase in government interest rates. Because Victorian home purchasers pay higher weekly mortgage repayments, they will be most directly and adversely affected by increasing interest rates. 
If one looks at other costs associated with housing one finds, for example, that Victoria has higher stamp duty costs for housing than any other State in Australia. One also finds that conveyancing and mortgage preparation costs are extremely high in Victoria and, in some cases, higher than those in most other States. 
I think that the whole picture that I have been trying to present in terms of the statistics indicates that what the Minister had to say today was, to say the least, extraordinarily misleading. He was seeking to help the Victorian Government, and in doing so in a rather ham-fisted way he had to distort the figures. He was not really able to present a factual case to the House. The facts that I have presented indicate that it is becoming increasingly more difficult for Australians to reach a home ownership situation. It is much more difficult for the average family to achieve that goal in the State of Victoria than it is in most other States. The reason for that is a combination of the policies of the Commonwealth Government and the ineptitude of the State Government, as well as its corruption in terms of its involvement in housing and land deals which have been well dealt with. 
-! was listening to what the honourable member said. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports of a dramatic increase in the number of Kampuchean- formerly Cambodian- refugees entering Thailand as a result of fighting between Vietnamese troops and forces loyal to the former Pol Pot regime, and the proposed establishment of a refugee transit centre in Indonesia. Are refugees fleeing the fighting in Kampuchea being denied refuge in Thailand? Does the Government support the proposed establishment of an island processing centre for refugees in Indonesia? Does the Government support the proposed establishment of a permanent island settlement for refugees? 
-I call the honourable member for Hotham and I warn the honourable member that his point of order had better be a genuine one. 

Is the motion seconded? 

Order! There is no substance to the point of order, lt is the duty of the Government to see that a quorum is present in the House. 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industrial Relations. Has Government legislation relating to the election of union office bearers had any noticeable positive effect in improving democracy in recent ballots for union leaderships? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Is leave granted? 
The second point I would make in that connection is that the Government has to look at the whole situation and, against the background of a full understanding of what would have been implied by indexation for 1979-80, make its decision about the tax surcharge. To express a personal view as to what should happen- I notice that my time has nearly expired- against the background of that full understanding, it might be considered that in lieu of the tax surcharge, which is perhaps something of a blunt instrument impacting unevenly on different income groups, there may be a recasting of the tax system which would spread the necessary burden of personal taxation as equitably as possible. 
There are many possibilities. The recently publicised proposal of the Government's health and welfare committee is one such possibility. The essential feature of that proposal is to give the option to families to be treated as a notional partnership for tax purposes, which would have the effect of greatly reducing the incidence of taxation in favour of Australian families. Such a new structure is consistent with any change, upwards or downwards, in the aggregate of taxes as circumstances come to reveal the need. I would predict that this change or other changes will enable an easing of the PA YE tax take after the Budget and, in the upshot a total of personal taxation for 1979-80 which is not significantly greater in real terms than it will be this year, thus preserving the essential and over-riding feature of the gains that the Government has achieved in this area. With that Australia will stay in the low tax category of the international league in terms of the total of taxation as a percentage of the gross domestic product. I have another table which I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  in order to illustrate that point. 

Is leave granted? 
-Order! 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I have received letters from the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order No. 107, the Acting  Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Prospect, namely: 
The Fraser Government's incompetent handling of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member for Hunter is indisposed and has left the chamber. I have agreed with the sanction of the Whips that his vote be recorded in this division. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 

The honourable member for Denison will withdraw the remarks he made regarding the honourable member for Melbourne. I remind the honourable member for Melbourne that he has made his speech and that he was heard in silence. 
He has failed to note that the Minister cannot give a direction to the Commissioner as to the operations of the Australian Federal Police Force unless he does two things: First, he has to confer with the Commissioner- in other words, he has to explain the direction to him- and secondly, he has to put the direction in writing for the record. That would not have been so under the Whitlam proposals. A telephone call would have been made in the middle of the night; no record would have been made; and a direction would have been given by one of  Mr Whitlam  's political henchmen that the force was to take action in relation to a certain person. No record at all would have been kept. Not a skerrick of evidence would have been available upon which the truth could have been nailed home and upon which political intervention could have been established. 
One should examine the provisions of the Bill and consider how on earth they can be reconciled with the remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne. The power of the Minister to give a direction is restricted. He can do so, as I said, only after he has conferred with the Commissioner and if he is prepared to do so in writing. I ask: What Minister of this Government would be prepared to give a political direction in writing? What Minister would put his reputation on the line by putting in writing- as the Bill requires- the direction to the Commissioner? The honourable member for Melbourne obviously has not been talking recently to officers of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. I would have thought, if he had, that he would be well aware that following a number of meetings with the Minister and with back bench committees, practically every single objection to this legislation in fact was ironed out. Unlike the fruitless efforts of the honourable member for Melbourne - 

The honourable member's point has been made. I ask the honourable member for Denison to rephrase that last part of his speech. 

Whilst the amendments to the Act are only of the nature that the Minister has described, I think that a more broad ranging discussion should be allowed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! As far as the Chair is concerned, there will be adequate time later on in this debate for the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to explain his position. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these four measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of Press reports in recent days which give the impression that the Government 's decision in the Budget in relation to wool research and promotion was taken without any prior consultation with the wool industry and that the decision was, in some way, hidden within the Budget? Are these impressions correct reflections of the facts? Will the Budget decision in any way adversely affect the industry's research and promotion activities this year? 

Order! I ask the right honourable member for Lowe to refer to the Leader of the Opposition as the Leader of the Opposition. 
-We have just heard an extraordinary speech from the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes). 
-He is a rather extraordinary member. I have no doubt in my mind that if we went to the people on this Budget we would get their resounding backing, as we have in the last two elections. Therefore, I rise to support this Budget. I have no doubt that it has been reasonably well received in the electorate. There is no way that a responsible Budget will receive national acclaim. There will always be those interest groups which feel that not enough has been done in their particular field, and there certainly will be people who feel that they are paying too much, through all methods of taxation, for the services the Government supplies. A successful government must strive to achieve a balance between these two groups. At this point in time I believe that we have the right Budget. 
The Australian public must be well warned of what the alternative government proposes. It would actively increase government's role and government spending. It would seek to ginger up the economy with capital works. It would subsidise employment and create a community youth service. It does not cost its plans, but the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has said that it would finance them by reducing costs- although he did not say how- by taxing capital, resource development and oil producing companies, by increasing the deficit and by increasing taxation, particularly at the top end of the taxation scale. Heaven help the people of Australia. 
Have not we heard it all before? Not only have we heard it, but also it has been put into practice during the administration of the previous Government. The result was record levels of inflation and unemployment. The nation is still struggling to discard the effect of those tragic years, and it is succeeding. We, on this side of the House, do believe in social justice. We do believe in providing incentives for both individuals and businesses. We do believe in bearing down on inflation to equip Australia to succeed in a world environment of rising inflation and intensifying competition. We do believe in small government. 
Many people within our community would suggest that since 1975 we have not progressed along these paths at a sufficient rate. They would suggest that a very close study should be made of California's Proposition 13, as approved a year ago by 65 per cent of voters in that State. Let us look just briefly at Proposition 13. It provided for a 57 per cent cut in the State's property tax and stipulated that no new State taxes be imposed without the consent of two-thirds majorities in the legislature and that no new local taxes be levied without referenda. It had been opposed, predictably, by the Left, local government, education and welfare lobbies and unions, and also by politicians of both sides, by the Press and by big business. There were forecasts of massive lay-offs, increased deprivation, budgetary chaos and the collapse of essential services. So, 12 months after Proposition 13 it is useful to look at its effects and examine the whole question of lower personal tax and less government spending. 
The facts are that the $6.4 billion tax cut has resulted in a 14 per cent increase in personal income, and unemployment in the State being down by 1 per cent, against a national decline of 0.5 per cent in 1978-79. Some 552,000 new jobs have been created, offsetting 100,000 jobs lost in the public sector. Revenue from business and sales taxes is up by $ 1 billion, and income tax receipts are up despite cuts made last year. Sceptics suggest that the boom would have happened anyway, but to deny its connection with tax cuts strains credibility. Policitians have appreciated the public mood and previous opponents of Proposition 13, such as Governor Brown, now champion the principle of expenditure restraint. 
The public employee roll in California has been cut by 8 per cent. Jobs on the city payrolls are down by 8.5 per cent and in education, where the cuts have fallen on ancillary employees rather than teachers, by 8.9 per cent. Only 16 per cent of the 100,000 lost public sector jobs involved actual lay-offs. A freeze on cost of living wage increases was imposed on State public servants, to avoid further reductions. The same freeze applied to welfare benefits. The State had a much publicised $5 billion surplus in mid- 1978, and this has helped cushion some effects. Public schools that lost $2.6 billion in property tax got $2 billion in aid from the State. The operations of the State Government have been so little affected, in fact, that Howard Jarvis is now turning his attention to a 50 per cent income tax cut to force smaller government. But, as economist Arthur Laffer points out, the cut in property tax has resulted in a general increase in the tax base, so that a projected surplus of $1.5 billion for 1978-79 has come out at $5 billion. 
There have of course been significant cuts, particularly in the sphere of local government, which in the United States of America performs a wide range of services. How undesirable these changes have been depends on one 's philosophy. Certainly, such essential services as fire fighting and police have remained unaltered. There is less spent on such things as parks and street lighting, and the fee-for-service principle has been extended. Summer school fees of $120 have been imposed, or some summer schools have simply been closed. Left wing commentators weep tears of blood over this and bemoan the fact that libraries close earlier and do not open on two days of the week. There is similar indignation over social service cuts. General assistance for the needy and poor has been cut by 23 per cent in Orange County, with a Budget of $43m, 40 social and mental health workers have been laid off. The 'inarticulate poor' are paraded as victims of middle class greed. Tenants are also held to have suffered. 
Professor Irving Kristol, however, notes that there is an element of self-interest in all this. Summer schools were used by the middle class more than the poor, and their main beneficiaries were middle class teachers. The same could be said of much of the social service industry. It has also been remarked that there is less need for education spending as population levels off, as is happening in Australia. Kristol points out that the genuine rich and poor are small minorities. The great bulk of Californians are middle income taxpayers whose prime requirement is to pay less tax. The freeze on welfare and public service salaries should be viewed in context. Welfare payments were generous- perhaps too generous- and public servants enjoy very high pension entitlements at the expense of other taxpayers. That is not a uniquely American experience. Local authorities must simply agree to return to smaller government. Naturally, reduction in property tax has no direct benefit to rent payers. Protection of home owners however is surely the major task of fiscal policy. Many rent payers in the United States of America or Australia are young adults who are aspiring home owners rather than a permanent interest group. It is of course true that California is a State where citizen initiated referenda are easy to hold, and where the property tax, inflated by rising land values, was penalising home owners. But this does not alter the significance of the tax revolt. In California the legislature had attempted to stave off Proposition 13 by the Behr Bill that would have been put had the Jarvis.Gann proposal failed. This provided a 30 per cent property tax reduction for private home owners only and rent credits. Yet clearly the voters were in no mood to accept vote catching palliatives from politicians. On the same day, voters in local polls in the State of Ohio rejected 117 of 198 school financing projects because they felt they would not get value for their tax dollars. 
Commentators of right and left agree that politicians of most shades have got the message- that taxes are too high and that spending, if not actually cut, should be more discriminating. Tennessee has limited spending and taxation growth to the rate of growth in the State's economy. State legislatures are in the process of approving tax cuts worth $3.5 billion, and 20 States are looking at statutory limits. A constitutional limit to federal spending has won approval from 30 States- only four short of the numbers for a constitutional convention. Federal spending was 18.7 per cent of gross national product in 1958, and 22.6 per cent in 1978; localstate government taxes were 8.7 per cent of GNP in 1960 and 12.4 per cent in 1976. Congress has discussed proposals to enforce balanced budgets, and a Bill cutting income tax one-third has been proposed. Across the board cuts of 2 per cent in numerous Federal programs have already been supported by the House of Representatives. There would seem to be a consensus that it is up to the executive to determine where specific cuts should be made, once the electorate has established broad limits. Left wing academics are clearly worried by the movement, linked as it is to a conservative trend in intellectual circles. An article by Robert Lekachman in September 1978 gives the game away. Beneath the largely unsubstantiated rhetoric about 'penalisation of the economically vulnerable' is the feat that there will be less money for universities and less interest in the more theoretic and left oriented courses. To guage the worth of Proposition 13, we only have to look at its committed opponents. 
As noted earlier, the practical effects of large scale tax cuts have been job creation in the private sector and an actual expansion of revenue. Arthur Laffer argues that, while a once-off rebate styles incentive, permanent cuts in tax rates have the opposite effect. Lowering rates for higher income brackets is particularly important, since punitive rates have resulted in the diversion of resources into tax avoidance schemes and away from revenue and productive use. Lower tax will simply mean that expensive avoidance schemes cease to be relatively attractive. Laffer cites the example of Puerto Rico, incidentally a far less prosperous society than California, where in 1977 income tax rates reaching 87 per cent were reduced across the board. A deficit has now become a surplus and interest rates are falling. In four years, the highest tax rate will be 50 per cent. When President Kennedy cut taxes, a $4 billion deficit in 1961 became a surplus in 1965. Considerable publicity has been given to the Laffer curve of tax rates between 0 per cent and 100 per cent. The top of the curve means high tax and high government services, and the bottom of the curve towards 0 per cent means the converse. The apex of the curve represents the ideal balance between taxes and services, but it is a matter of fine judgment to determine at what rate this occurs. In wartime it could be well above 50 per cent but in peacetime far lower. 
A disciple of Laffer 's, Jude Wanniski, elaborates on the effects of tax rates through history. The reason why comparatively small numbers of Arabs were able to conquer so much of the Near East in the seventh century relates to the fact that the populations of the provinces had been so oppressed by Byzantine taxation that foreign conquest became preferable. The postwar recoveries of Germany and Japan, it is argued, stem from the imposition of much lower tax rates, including those on higher incomes, resulting in the incentive for high productivity. The British Empire was built on the lower end of the Laffer curve and dismantled on the upper end. Taxes were low from 1816 to World War I, the age of British commercial dominance.  Her  postwar decline coincides with the imposition of high taxes on the rich in 1945 that have not, until the advent of Margaret Thatcher, been seriously questioned. In the United States, the continuation of high tax rates imposed during World War I caused recession in 191 9-20. The repeal of these by Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon, taking the optimum 77 per cent rate down to 25 per cent by 1925, caused GNP to rise from $69.6 billion to $103.1 billion in 1921-29. In turn, the depression owes much to  President  Hoover's high tariff and high tax policies. The most damning example of high taxation is found in Soviet agriculture. The State takes 90 per cent of the output of collective farms. A vast increase in effort would yield only a comparatively small increase in return to the peasant, stifling productivity; hence the fact that 27 per cent of the total farm output comes from the I per cent of land retained as private plots by the peasants, a rate of 40 times the efficiency of the collective. 
Politicians have a poor record of appreciating that low taxes can be economically sound as well as electorally popular. The British Conservatives have acquiesced to punitive taxes, and conservative Republicans in the United States have only recently embraced tax reform. Jarvis comes from outside the political establishment. Indeed, Goldwater attacked the Kennedy tax cuts in his disastrous 1 964 campaign. It is a lesson that Australian politicians should heed. If we decide to move further on the path of tax reduction, we will have to set our face against some persuasive and 'respectable' lobby groups, including a large section of the Press. Pseudo-intellectual journalists are already trying to discredit Arthur Laffer because he enjoys country music, just as they rubbish Margaret Thatcher's politics by ridiculing her mannerisms. It is a fair measure of the moral bankruptcy of these people. The facts that have come forth since the passing of Proposition 13 give the lie to so many objections raised by its opponents. 
The lesson of Proposition 13 is that tax reduction has both stimulated the economy and increased the tax base. Real deprivation does not appear to have resulted from reduced services. So many of the consumers of government services also happen to be taxpayers who have accepted public austerity in return for meaningful tax cuts. I believe that it is an exciting prospect. I trust that our Government and Opposition will look at the Californian and the American situation to gauge for themselves what has occurred in the last 1 2 months. Decisions probably have to be made by the community in Australia whether it is going to insist on smaller government and be content with the austerity of government or whether the big government syndrome is to prevail. I support the Budget. 
-Has the Minister for Special Trade Representations noted the recent announcement by the United States Government that up to 25 million tonnes of grain will be made available by the United States to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? What impact does he expect this announcement to have on the world wheat market and on Australia's prospects for selling wheat? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the six measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen a report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Nationwide  on 1 November 1979 in which it was said that officers of the Department of Health, when appearing before an Estimates committee of the House, had suggested that the total cost of the reintroduction of a Medibank-style health scheme would be only about $500m? Is this true? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

It is my understanding that the debate may continue after the honourable member makes his observations tonight. 
I am critical of the Minister's actions because the Committee has not been given sufficient notice of the Government's response and is not able to seek clarification on why some of its recommendations have been rejected. It is all very well for the Minister to come here and to say that only five of the Committee's recommendations are unacceptable. The report was the unanimous report of members from both sides of the Parliament. It is misleading to say that there are only five unacceptable recommendations. That may be a statement of fact, but only 1 1 of the recommendations have been supported without qualification, and a further five are unacceptable. 
New arrangements are to be made. The Minister has not elaborated on these matters. He has read a one page covering letter attached to the summary of recommendations and the Government's decisions on those recommendations. There is nothing more than that. Five of the recommendations have not been accepted in principle and three are to be noted. As far as the Opposition is concerned, very few legislative policy changes will result from the support of 1 1 recommendations. Two recommendations are supported because they represent the present situation. Seven are supported only in principle. One example is recommendation Bl. However various parts of these recommendations involve little or no change whatsoever. 
This great statement by the Minister means very little or nothing. Even though accepting the Committee's recommendations could have involved much more, it seems to me that the Committee 's deliberations deserve better consideration than they have received. I put it to the Minister that he should have a meeting with the Committee as soon as practicable to show why the Committee's recommendations were rejected and to give some reason for the attitude of the Government in this matter. If the actions of the Minister are to be taken as an example, they make a farce of the committee system. I will not elaborate further this evening but I will have something more to say about the matter at a later stage. The  Deputy  Government Whip is indicating to me that I should wind up. I have always co-operated with the Whip, particularly at this time of year. But I can assure the Minister that if this matter had arisen at some other time of the year and under different circumstances I would be really giving him the treatment over the botch of the operation that has been carried out today by the Minister in tabling this statement. 
I hope that the Minister is not going to have another go in the debate on this matter this evening. I would have thought that it would be far better to achieve some equity in the discussion of this matter to hear at least some other people in this Parliament who are members of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and at some time in the future give the opportunity to the Parliament to discuss it. Time should be given to me, as Opposition spokesman on the Australian Capital Territory, to reply to a statement that is made in haste. It was presented in another place before the Minister tabled it here. Further, if we are to do justice to the work of the Joint Committee and other committees in this place, we ought to be given the opportunity in a reasonable way to receive reports and to comment on them. Moreover, sufficient time should be given for us to look at them intelligently and then to respond. If we are to carry out the work of this Parliament properly, that should be done. It will be intolerable if the Minister is to have a second go at this matter after the brief statement that he has made. He made a botch of presenting it to Parliament and he now stands over the people who worked on the Committee and who would like to respond to the principles contained in the recommendations. I ask the Minister to allow some time in the future for the debate of these reports. In the meantime he should give the Committee that courtesy and an opportunity to hear why some of the recommendations were rejected. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
