I ask the Minister for the Navy: Firstly, how many Service patrol boats does Australia possess at the present time and, secondly, having regard to the vast area to be patrolled, will the Minister use his undoubted powers of persuasion in an effort to have more patrol boats provided as early as practicable? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Interior. Will he consider the introduction of mobile polling booths for use at major hospitals to replace the present unsatisfactory voting procedures at these institutions? Will he also consider abolishing the present practice of handing how to vote cards to electors at the entrance to polling booths and in lieu thereof provide for the display of authorised how to vote cards in every cubicle in every polling booth? 
I deny with every fibre of my being the charge that has been levelled against the Government by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Far from being an object of censure, I believe that this Government can claim credit, as previous governments of our political parties can claim over the last 20 years, for a great deal of progress and advancement in all fields. If the Opposition were really genuine in this charge 1 would suggest that instead of accusing the Government of delays and of holding up the processes of this Parliament it should have refrained from moving urgency motions day after day, almost without exception, ever since the Parliament met early in March. 
The honourable member for Lalor finished his remarks by advocating that there be some change in the method of government in this country. I would like to ask members of the Opposition, and I would like them to give a clear, frank and unequivocal reply, why they have not put before the people at election time, or at any other time, their true platform. It is all very well for the honourable member for Lalor and other honourable members to get up in this chamber and make accusations and move motions of censure against the Government for delays. If there have been delays in the last 3 weeks or so since the Parliament met those delays were caused primarily by members of the Opposition. I would like to ask honourable members opposite why it is that they keep quiet or keep under the counter their one objective and the one reason for existence of the Australian Labor Party. I quote from the Australian Labor Party's 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' for 1969 as approved by the Commonwealth Conference at Melbourne. As far as I know, this is the latest official document put out by the Australian Labor Party. It sets out in clear black and white what the objective of the Australian Labor Party is - and it has only one objective: 
The Democratic Socialisation of Industry, Production, Distribution and Exchange - to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation and other antisocial features in those fields - in accordance with the Principles of Action, Methods and Progressive Reforms set out in the Party Platform from time to time. 
I repeat that there is only one objective, but we never hear it spoken of by honourable members opposite. I would have thought more of the contribution from the honourable member for Lalor if he had come out clearly and stated what the Opposition stood for. It is a very regrettable thing in the political life of this country that the Party which claims to be the alternative government keeps under the counter, as it were, its true platform. Why does it not tell the people, and why do the honourable members in this Parliament not stand up and say what they really believe in, instead of accusing the Government falsely of not attending to the affairs of the nation? Honourable members opposite are interjecting. They cannot take it. Obviously my remarks are hurting them. 
I return to the second paragraph of the Labor Party's platform, headed 'Interpretation of Democratic Socialisation'. We do not hear much from honourable members opposite about their programme of socialisation because they know that an overwhelming number of Australians are opposed to socialistic policies. Australians have demonstrated this opposition in years gone by. I remind the noisy honourable member opposite who persists in interjecting that the word 'democratic' before the word socialisation' in the Party's platform does not mean a thing. I have as my authority no less a personage in the Australian Labor Party than  Mr Joe  Chamberlain. Members of the Opposition do not say much about the Labor Party's platform for pretty obvious reasons, but the platform refers to the restoration of Parliament as the principal organ of democracy. Notwithstanding this, we have the word of  Mr Joe  Chamberlain that the word 'democratic' before the word 'socialisation' does not alter one iota the terms of Labor's objective. 
Later in the Labor Party's platform we find a paragraph dealing wi.h inc methods of implementing the objective of socialisation. This reads: 
Nationalisation of - 
Banking, credit and insurance. 
Monopolies. 
Shipping. 
Sugar refining. 
I regret having to remind the House that during the last general election campaign on a television programme 'Meet the Press' the Leader of the Opposition, answering a question put by a member of the interviewing panel as to whether the ALP still stood for nationalisation, said: 'No, that is out of date.' The nationalisation plank still stands in Labor's platform, lt was altered in only one respect, and that was in respect of radio and television. Radio and television were on the list to be nationalised until about 1968, when they were removed. On television the Leader of the Opposition has said that the nationalisation plank is out of date. He suggested that the interviewer examine other proposals in the Party's platform, such as those with respect to education. Fairly and squarely 1 ask honourable members opposite: Do they stand for nationalisation? Do they stand for the nationalisation of banking, credit, insurance, monopolies, shipping and sugar refining? If they do they should tell the people of Australia now from this Parliament and at election time. 
As a Queenslander I am hit hard by the knowledge that sugar refining is on the list to be nationalised should Labor come to power. Labor's methods of implementing its platform include the following: . 6. (b) Adequate grants in aid to the Stales by the Federal Parliament with special consideration for the disabilities under Federation of the States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. 
That apparently indicates what the ALP thinks of Queensland. Queensland is a large State with a relatively small population. If Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania are listed by the Labor Party to receive adequate grants in aid, why has Queensland been excluded? 
I will not be sidetracked by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Lalor had a good deal to say this afternoon about defence. He was highly critical of the statement made last week by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I and many people outside this Parliament think the statement on defence was an excellent one. It was full and detailed. Obviously it could not deal in a complete form with the aircraft situation. The honourable member said a lot about the Fill. He must know that the Government has decided to send the Minister for Defence to the United States in the next week or two to investigate the present situation regarding the Fill. I would like to ask honourable members opposite a fair question, just as I asked them a fair question about their nationalisation plank. Since they have so much to say about defence and since the honourable member for Lalor was so critical of the Government's activity in this field, why is the subect of the defence of this country listed 23rd in order of importance in the Labor Party's platform? We on this side believe that the defence of this nation - its safety and security - should have top priority. Because of this view Australia has been governed safely and securely over the last 20 years by Liberal-Country Party governments. The changes advocated by the honourable member for Lalor will do nothing to preserve this situation, but unfortunately many people in Australia are not aware of the hidden dangers to this country in Labor's platform. I shall await with interest answers by responsible spokesmen of the Opposition to the questions I have posed. 
The Government's health proposals were criticised. My mind goes back to the late 1940s- 1948 or 1949- When  Senator McKenna,  who was Minister for Health in the Chifley Government, endeavoured to introduce a health scheme but failed because the government of the day got off side with everybody in the community whom it was necessary to have on side in order to implement a proper health scheme. It was left to governments of the persuasion of the present Government to devise and introduce successfully a national health scheme for the benefit of the people of Australia. This was done some years ago by the late  Sir Earle  Page. It is all very well for the honourable member for Lalor to criticise the Government's health programme but I remind him that we will soon hear from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  details of proposals now being formulated in association with the medical profession. I stress that the Government must have the medical profession on side if it is to implement a successful set of health proposals. 
The honourable member for Lalor said a good deal about the economy. He said that it was distorted. He talked about inflation. Inflation is not indigenous to this country. As an economist he is well aware that Australia is prosperous and stable. We have a degree of inflation from time to time; we have a degree of inflation now. I do not deny these things, but a degree of inflation is not a crime. Plenty of countries suffer inflation to a greater or lesser degree. This is part of the price one must pay for progress. Things are changing not only in Australia but in other countries. Processes change. Methods and techniques change. Technology is changing. Advance and progress mean change. With all these changes we have an element of inflation, but I know that this Government has the matter well in hand. I trust the Government to look after the economy of this country and to keep it in a healthy state for the life of this Parliament, just as it has for the last 20 years. We ran into some trouble in 1961 through applying the brakes too hard but I remind the honourable member for Lalor, who was critical of the Government's handling of economics and finance, that no less an authority than the 'London Financial Times' praised Australia for the way it handled its financial crisis. I know of no other country, although there may have been others, which received such high praise from such a well respected journal as the 'London Financial Times' in respect of the handling of its finances. 
I see sitting at the table on the Opposition side the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who I understand is to follow me in the debate. I want to put a question to him in relation to health. I saw the honourable member for Oxley in a television interview, which he handled very effectively, but when he was asked what a Labor government would do about the nationalisation of health he replied - and I hope I quote him correctly, but this is the gist of the reply he made on the interview on Channel 9 - There is no authority to nationalise health or anything else'. There may not be any authority. I am not a constitutional lawyer nor am I a member of the High Court but I should like the honourable member to explain what he meant by that statement, particularly as this interview must have been watched by thousands of people like myself. If there is no authority for nationalisation of health or anything else, why does the Australian Labor Party still keep in its platform a nationalisation plank? I shall leave the Labor Party now, because that is all the time it deserves. 
The year 1970 marks not only an important landmark in our history but also the beginning of a new decade in which all of us hope that we will continue to enjoy a period of progress, stability and advancement. During this year not only do we commemorate the bi-centenary of the discovery of eastern Australia but, perhaps more importantly, we take stock of our present position and prepare and plan for the future. As I said earlier, the defence and the security of Australia must, at all times, be paramount. It is like the biblical saying about the man who builds his house on rock: He builds a secure house. The man who builds his house on shifting sand builds a house that will not remain. We want in Australia to build a house on a firm foundation. I believe that we are doing this and I am sure that under this Government we shall1 continue to do so in the years ahead. It is vital to us that we should continue to strengthen our regional alliances, to build up our population, to develop our resources and to play an everincreasing and responsible part in our region. 
I was pleased to see, and I am sure many people were pleased to see, the assurance in the Governor-General's Speech that there would be a review of income tax rates, particularly as they apply to the middle and lower income groups. I have talked to many people in my electorate and elsewhere on this subject. As an accountant I am interested, and I feel that we are on the right track in attacking the problem of reviewing the rates of income tax, particularly as they affect the groups I have mentioned. They are undoubtedly hard hit. 
 If the honourable member had a little more experience he would realise that it would be better to listen and then he might learn something to his advantage. I suggest that the opportunity be taken as soon as possible to have a thorough review of the whole field of taxation, not just as it affects middle and lower income groups. Others in the accountancy profession and members of chambers of commerce would like to see a thorough review and not just a piecemeal review of the entire taxation structure. One tax that I would like to see abolished is payroll tax which is a bad tax and wrong in principle. I would like to see the Commonwealth vacate certain fields of taxation. 1 have advocated this both to the Government and in public. I would like to see the fields of gift duty and estate duty vacated by the Commonwealth just as it vacated the fields of entertainment tax and federal land tax some years ago, leaving these fields open to the State governments. The States need to be given more fields of taxation from which to draw. It is the essence of democratic government that State governments should have more responsibility than they have in relation to the raising of the moneys which they spend. I am pleased thai more moneys are being allocated to the Stales for the remainder of this financial year. 1 suggest that hy 30th June the States will be in a much better position as a result of the recent Premiers Conference. I do not suggest that everything in the garden is completely right, but we are moving in the right direction. 
For a long time it has been part of the Government's programme to develop Australia on the basis of growth with stability. Admittedly "from time to time the road gets a little bit rocky, but we are on the right track and we have kept a straight path. We are going to continue that straight path into the future, bearing in mind our responsibility for the welfare of the Australian people as a whole. I emphasise that. There is do discrimination, as the honourable member for Lalor said, on ihe part of this Government in favour of the rich against the poor. I doubt whether in the history of Australia any government has shown a greater concern than this Government for the needs of those people who are most in need of help. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  have repeatedly, at election time, in this House and in other places, shown that it is this Government's deep concern to seek out areas of need in the community and to help them to the best of its ability. Surely there is nothing wrong with that. Unlike the Australian Labor Party this Government can claim that it has never reduced the pension. The Labor Party cannot claim such a record because on one occasion it actually reduced pensions: 
Education will become more and more an important matter of government in the 1970s. Our former Governor-General. Lord Casey, said: 
A better educated Australia is a  stronger  Australia. 
Speaking in Brisbane 2 years ago Lord Casey said: 
The speed of Australia's economic advancement depends on the provision of the necessary numbers of skilled people. 
I might interpolate that the migrant flow is, of course, greatly helping this situation. 
 If the honourable member had been reading the Governor-General's Speech instead of opening his mouth so much he would be better informed than he is. Special grants have been announced for educational research and for the construction of teacher training colleges. This is good. These are all marks of progress in the field of education. I am confident that each year we will see greater progress in all fields of education. 
I wanted to speak about the very important matter of conservation but I can touch on it only briefly because I have devoted much of my time to dealing with the speech of the honourable member for Lalor. I refer particularly to the very good work that is being done by the Australian Conservation Foundation of which the Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, is  President.  I have in my hand a newsletter issued by the Foundation of which I am a financial member, being very interested in this subject. The newsletter, dated January 1970, contains an account of a symposium on conservation in relation to the Australian coast. It reads: 
The Australian coast must henceforth be viewed as a national responsibility, requiring the allocation of Commonwealth funds. 
The Australian Conservation Foundation, which organised the symposium as the third in its national series, was asked to prepare a statement urging all States and the Commonwealth Government to recognise the special importance of planning the future development of the coast. 
The recommendation, passed unanimously by over 100 professional experts, academics, conservationists and other members of the public, read: 
This symposium recommends to the Australian Conservation Foundation that it should prepare and pass on to the Governments of all States and the Commonwealth a statement urging that the coast be viewed as a national responsibility. 
If time had allowed I would have liked to quote a few very interesting and significant passages from speeches that were made during the course of the symposium. One leading authority in the field of science and conservation,  Dr F.  N. Ratcliffe, the 
Scientific Secretary of the Australian Conservation Foundation in Canberra made some very interesting remarks indeed concerning postwar changes and the conservation problems in a developing country. A little later in the symposium some very valuable and helpful information was given on the same subject and some remarks on the general1 problem of water pollution in coastal areas were made by  Senator Davidson,  the  chairman  of the Senate Select Committee of Inquiry on Water Pollution.  Senator Davidson  said: 
There is now a growing awareness of the problems of environmental pollution . . . throughout the world. 
I am sure that Australia will not be lagging in dealing with these problems. We scarcely open a newspaper these days without reading of some aspect of the dangers and problems caused by pollution of the water and the air. These problems will1 call for the devotion of our best brains, and I am sure that during the next few years great progress will be made in dealing with this very important problem of pollution, which is affecting this country and so many other countries of the world. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. I refer by way of preface to some correspondence I had with the Minister some little time ago concerning the plight of widowers who are left to rear young children under extremely difficult conditions. I ask the Minister whether he can assure the House that the financial difficulties faced by men who have been widowed and have the care of children are still being actively considered by the Government. 

Leave is not granted. 

There is no substance in the point of order. There has been no personal reflection on an individual honourable member. 
The honourable member for Reid could not hide his envy and dislike of the wool growers of this country. This led him to contrast the Government's recent action in respect of interest rates for primary producers with its treatment of ex-servicemen under the war service homes scheme. Of course, there is no comparison between the two issues. The rate of interest for war service loans is 3£%- In the case of primary producers we are talking about the withholding of an increase in an already much higher rate of interest. The honourable member said that the waiting period for a war service loan is 6 months. He arrived at this figure by including as waiting time the average time taken to process an application. The time taken to process an application has always been counted as waiting time, so I regard his accusation as one designed only to mislead. 
Let me refer to the table which I so generously agreed should be incorporated in Hansard. As on the last occasion he spoke about housing, the honourable member had the table prepared by trie research service of the Parliamentary Library. I have no reason to believe that the table is not accurate. My only observation is that since the table has been incorporated in Hansard honourable members will not be able to see it until tomorrow. I have already seen it. Honourable members might not realise that the way in which the honourable member for Reid used the table did not present the complete picture, to say the least. He used the table to indicate that from 1966-67 to 1968-69 more revenue came into the War Service Homes Division by way of interest and repayments than was paid out in that period. What he did not say is that the table also lists figures for no fewer than 16 years going back to 1950-51 - 1 think it goes back further than that - and in every year the amount found out of the Government's Budget was considerably in excess of the amount that came back in receipts from interest and repayments. I have just roughly added the figures. The total exceeds $500m. 
The honourable gentleman argues that because this year, according to this table, it is expected that receipts from interest and repayments will be $72.62m  -  I do not vouch for the validity of the figures - the Government therefore should not worry about increasing the amount available at least up to that figure. If that is correct it would be equally valid to argue that in previous years when the position was the other way round the Government should have confined the amount it made available for war service homes to the amount that was being received from interest and repayments. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman is suggesting that but it is a logical consequence of the argument he is putting forward. The Government has never done that. It has done what a responsible government should do. In the Budget context each year it has assessed the amount that it is prepared to make available out of its Budget for all the many items of expenditure for which the Government has to provide and that process took place this year. The Government does this each year irrespective of the money coming in and whether it will have to find some amount from normal taxation. 
Housing for ex-servicemen is one job the community expects to be done well. I would like to take the few minutes available to me to outline facts that will show that the Government can look with pride on what it has done to help the ex-serviceman with his housing problem. The record of the Government is a factual record of achievement. I rely on facts and not on words and bogus tables of the sort used by the honourable member for Reid to provide the evidence on which this claim rests. The story simply told is that out of a total expenditure of approximately SI. 3 billion for war service homes since the inception of the scheme the Liberal-Country Party Government has provided since it took office late in 1949 $1.2 billion. Put another way, of the total funds made available under the war service homes scheme about 92% has been provided by this Government since it has been in office. 
It is scarcely necessary for me to mention that these amounts have been provided during a period of unparalleled economic development and at a time when heavy demands were being made on the Government for finance for many other important undertakings. War service homes finance is easily the cheapest and best form of housing finance available and as a consequence applications are still being received at a very high rate. They have increased over the past 2 years. To meet the increased demand the war service homes allocation was increased this year to $55m, an increase of $5m over the amount provided last year. This very large sum was provided despite the fact that the number of ex-servicemen seeking war service homes assistance represents a diminishing part of the total population seeking houses. Despite the large sum provided the demand for war service homes finance has been so great that it cannot be encompassed within the allocation. That seems to be a pretty common problem these days while the nation is straining its resources in development of all kinds. 
Let me make the position quite clear because it has been obscured by the honourable member for Reid. No ex-serviceman's application is being refused on the grounds that funds are not available. In some cases it will be necessary to defer settlement for periods which vary from 1 to 8 weeks. The deferment of the settlement date will be necessary in only a relatively small proportion of applications, notably applications in respect of existing properties which would ordinarily be settled in May or June. These applications will be carried over for settlement in July. With a delay of only 1 to 8 weeks involved, it is expected that most applicants affected will be able to make arrangements with the vendors to defer settlement and it will be open to the applicants concerned to complete the transaction with temporary finance should they so desire. Some may decide to obtain temporary finance, feeling it is worth doing so to save rent and to be in their homes earlier. 
The facts show in today's circumstances we have carefully protected the interests of ex-servicemen. It might even be argued that the present scheme weighs the scales against young men now marrying who are not eligible for a war service homes loan. The Opposition may be happy to forget its record in the field of housing for ex-servicemen when it was in office. The present Government does not need to do so. It has every reason to be proud of its record in providing $1.2 billion for war service homes since it has been in office. This huge sum, together with the favourable terms on which loans are provided and the efficient administration of the scheme, surely represents a record of achievement which the Opposition should commend rather than criticise when it raises this matter. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
The honourable member has raised no valid point of order. 
It is extraordinary to find that one of the things that have been most apparent in this Parliament since we new members came here is the vituperation and extraordinary hatred that has been heaped upon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  This has been manifested today by this extraordinary censure motion that has been moved against the Leader of the Opposition. As I say, honourable members opposite have talked in pompous terms about law and order and about anarchy. I suggest that they examine their own tactics and their own procedures in this House. Let me remind them that the gag has been moved some 24 times during this session and was moved another 7 times on 25th November. 
This Parliament is a direct arm, if we like to call it that, of the British House of Commons. We ought to be proud of the institution that we have. We ought to be proud to serve that institution with distinction and with some dedication. I myself am quite prepared to do this. I am prepared to apply myself to it but only if the Government will allow me to do so. If it will not allow me to do so, I suggest that it be honest enough to say so. It is most frustrating, indeed quite horrifying, to a new member to come here full of the wonderful spirit of being able to make some contribution to this national Parliament and to the welfare of the people but to see the appalling tactics adopted time and time again by the Government to prevent members from making some contribution, however small it may be. This is a most frustrating and depressing experience for any member, particularly for a new member. 
I would hope that the affairs of this morning and last night will fade into the background. I hope the lesson will be learned. I hope the lesson has been learned that this Government has a responsibility to all people in the Commonwealth and not only to itself, because this Government has no right to think that it has a priority on the affairs of this nation. It does not have a priority on the affairs of this nation. We on this side of the House are members of the largest single political party represented in this chamber. We have not only some rights but also some responsibilities. We are prepared to accept the responsibilities if the Government is prepared to allow us to engage in legitimate discussion and the legitimate dissection of any programme that it puts before this chamber. It is no good at all that it is completely fooling yourselves to believe that we do not understand the importance of this place. If we do not understand the importance of it and what our contribution is to be we ought not to be here. I certainly am proud to be here, but I am not proud to be a witness to the exhibition that has been going on for the last 24 hours. I like no part of it at all. 
The action of the Government last night was provocative in the extreme. If it is to carry on like this the whole image of the Parliament and the image of what we are supposed to be doing here will be tarnished forever, and the blame will lie fairly and squarely on the Government side of the 
House. As I said earlier, for a new member it is a very distressing thing to have to see. I am bewildered by the procedures that have gone on in this chamber. I was proud to come here to serve and proud to make some contribution to this Parliament, but now I have very grave doubts about whether I will be allowed to make any contribution at all. 1 would suggest to the Government that it reassess and make a re-appraisal of what it considers to be the role of a democratic Parliament, particularly as it applies in this chamber. 

Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. By way of preface, may I refer to a statement made by the Minister some months ago with regard to the possibility of introducing a national child minding scheme. 1 ask the Minister whether such a scheme is still under consideration by the Government. 
I congratulate the Government on taking this big step forward. Having regard to the fact that so many countries today have adopted the metric system I think it is right and proper that we should take our place among that majority of countries which, over a period of time now, either have been implementing or have fully implemented the metric system. 
I should like to pay tribute also to the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures for the splendid work that it did under the chairmanship of the late  Senator Keith  Laught. I have in my hand a copy of the Committee's report. It is quite a voluminous document. No doubt it has been read by other honourable members as it has been by me. I am sure we all have been greatly impressed by the amount of care and thought that has been put into it. I know that the late  Senator Laught  was very keen for the Government to adopt the metric system and my only -regret is that he did not live for another 10 or 12 months to see this actually take place. 
On pages 117 and 118 of the Senate Select Committee's report are listed the countries which have adopted the metric system and those which have not yet adopted it. It will be seen from a quick glance at the list that there are 126 countries today, containing about 90% of the world's population, which are using the metric system. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said a few minutes ago, the introduction of the metric system in Australia undoubtedly will be relatively slow. There will be no M Day, or Metrication Day, like D Day was associated with the introduction of decimal currency. Nevertheless I am sure that once it has been officially recognised and adopted the system will be implemented and will proceed with reasonable speed. 
The Government has indicated that metric conversion board will be established. I am sure that this will be equally successful as the Decimal Currency Board was a few years ago. To take an example, Great Britain plans to be fully metric by the end of 1975. We probably will not be fully metric until about 1980 according to the plan which has been outlined to us by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen). 
I understand that in some industrial sectors in Britain metrication is already well under way, as it is in South Africa. For some time India and Japan have had the metric system. The United States Congress not long ago authorised an official inquiry into the metric system with the implication of ultimate conversion to it. The New Zealand Government has accepted the necessity of assisting metrication in that country and has set up an advisory board to encourage, assist and advise on the progressive voluntary adoption of the metric system, lt is logical to assume that the process of change to the metric system in Britain will progressively affect Australia and New Zealand, if only for trade reasons. That is pretty obvious. I think it is also reasonable to suggest that the pace in Britain will affect to some extent the pace in Australia and New Zealand. 
Considerable planning and co-ordination undoubtedly will be required so that each sector within the community, as it becomes ready to do so, will move over to the new metric system from the old imperial system gradually and in line with and related to other sectors of the economy. Obviously conversion here cannot be achieved all in 1 step as was the case with the conversion to decimal currency. The changes to be made, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has indicated, will be many and varied, and obviously it will take some years for them all to be implemented. Undoubtedly there will also be some growing pains or perhaps should I say some transitional problems that will have to be coped with, and I am sure they will be met as they arise. 
The Minister in New Zealand who was responsible for handling this matter there indicated in his Parliament that the means for deriving maximum advantage at minimum cost lie in the development of pro grammes, the phasing of changes with external events, and the replacement of plant and practices when, these become obsolete. As was the case in New Zealand, I have no doubt that in our country individual sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, retailing and transport will best be able to plan their own programmes for metrication through some special sector committee system established from amongst their own members. This has been done in a number of other countries and apparently it has worked well. These sector groups will be able to determine their own timing, depending on their own individual problems, but hearing in mind the overall national timetable, which in. our case will be approximately 10 years. This of course will be the ultimate responsibility of the Metric Conversion Board and of the Commonwealth Government. 
Some of the sectors may well find that metrication presents special problems for them, and the change may take .longer to achieve. These sectors will no doubt be able to work at their own pace. No doubt they will be provided wilh what assistance can be given to them either by the Government or by the Metric Conversion Board, and it may of course not be possible for them to reach full metric conversion until some years after other sectors have completed the change. There is no suggestion, of course, of a crash programme of change for any sector or in the overall picture. The entire process, as has been indicated by the Minister and as was commented also by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who preceded me tonight, is seen to be gradual, voluntary and co-operative, with timing to secure the maximum benefits at the least cost. 
In collaboration with the Board, it will be the task of all sections of the community to ascertain what is involved for them in metrication and to achieve harmonious conversion with advantage to all. I believe that this will almost certainly be achieved. As costs in the country are continually increasing, maximum speed and efficiency in conversion from the old system to the metric system are clearly desirable. The Senate Select Committee emphasised that delays in conversion could increase the ultimate cost by approximately 7% per annum, and I am sure that the Government has this in mind. We are not starting from scratch, because in this country in the pharmaceutical and scientific fields and for electrical measurement the metric system is already being used almost exclusively. Almost without exception education authorities in this country favour the early adoption of the metric system because it would simplify and unify the teaching of mathematics and science. One writer says: 
The metric system of weights and measures will make living easier, simpler, more efficient and may be even cheaper. Industry will benefit, school children will benefit, trade will increase, Australia will benefit. 
Whatever the costs of conversion may be, I am positive that the ultimate benefits will in every way be to our advantage. It is interesting to note that a gallup poll taken about 18 months ago showed that an overwhelming majority of the Australian people approved the change. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 

The question is: 
That the Bill be considered an urgent Bill. 
Order! The time allowed for the debate on the motion has expired. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Snedden's)  be agreed to. 
I ask the Treasurer whether the Government will consider a suggestion from the Federated Taxpayers Associations of Australia that a permanent taxation law revision committee be established for the purpose of making an impartial survey and recommendation to the Treasury on matters relating to proposed taxation law amendments and on questions and requests emanating from the public? 

I ask the honourable member to come back to the Bill which deals with parliamentary allowances. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he is getting a little wide of the Bill, which relates specifically to assistance to teachers colleges. 
Order! Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The time allotted for the debate has expired. The honourable member for Lyne will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. The House will proceed with Government Business. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science had a recent opportunity to inspect the University of Queensland and to observe the very difficult conditions under which many of the staff and students are working? If not, is he, by arrangement with the appropriate authorities, willing to go to Brisbane in the near future to make such an inspection and to ascertain at first hand the inadequacy of present accommodation and facilities, particularly in certain faculties? 

Order! I suggest that the honourable member address his remarks to the Chair. 
He then went on: 
So far as overseas work is concerned, the Snowy will be authorised to work in a somewhat wider field. It will be able to act as a constructing authority and supervise construction of projects in the fullest sense of this term. 
In other words, it will be able to do this except inside Australia itself. These works, of course, as I have said, will be paid for out of funds made available by the Australian Government. 
The Minister said that he expects much of the work for the Corporation to come from mining companies. Much of the work that it could handle could come from mining companies, but the work required by mining companies is the kind of work which requires an immediate decision. The Corporation will be utterly unable to make an immediate decision. In addition there is a requirement that the Corporation will have to charge cost plus  100%  and that it will have to go through an outside consulting firm as well, which will add  10%  to the cost. So in the mining field it is quite clear that the Corporation will be effectively priced out altogether. The statement made by the Minister that he expects a great deal of this work to come from the mining companies is either naive or hypocritical politically. Why should this Corporation be required to charge cost plus 100% and in addition engage private consultants who will charge additional fees? 
The honourable member for Farrer well knows, as he was once Minister for National Development, that there is a Division of Rock Mechanics in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. No obligation is placed upon it to become involved in paying consulting engineers' fees, although its work is mainly the investigation of rock stresses, etc., in tunnels for mining companies. The Division does not have to call into action all the private consultants that this new Corporation will have to; nor does it have to charge  100%  of costs or even  50%  of costs. It is allowed to make its own judgment as to the fees it charges for this very similar type of work. Why is this crippling obligation placed upon the new corporation except for the purpose of ensuring that it will never function effectively? 
Let us look at the part which can be played actually by these consulting firms. The honourable member for Farrer will be interested in this because he was the Minister for National Development at the time. The River Murray Commission called in the firm of Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey to do the salinity test on the Chowilla Dam site. The Snowy Mountains Authority was approached also to do a feasibility study on the dam. Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey asked the SMA to do the salinity test which that firm had been approached by the River Murray Commission to do. The Authority actually did that work. That is not a secret. It could not be a secret. Dozens of Snowy Mountains Authority staff worked on the salinity test for the Chowilla Dam and the fact is exceedingly well known. The then Minister for National Development, the present member for Farrer, passed the results on to the South Australian Government. He said in effect: Look, the consultants have reported that the tests are adverse*. But the work was done by the Snowy Mountains Authority. 
Let us suppose that, after the Snowy Mountains Authority is phased out, the Snowy Mountains Council takes over and has control of all work in the Snowy Mountains, something serious occurs inside the Snowy Mountains project. Let us say that a rock fall occurs in a tunnel - for instance, the Snowy-Eucumbene tunnel - or that indications develop of a pipeline breaking. The Snowy Mountains Council, let us suppose, seeks the immediate aid of the new Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation whose staff will be established in the very same building. Under this legislation, the Corporation would have to reply: 'We realise the gravity and the urgency of the matter on which you wish us to report; but, before we can do this or any job, we must obtain the approval of the Minister for National Development'. But I make the point that before the Minister can give his approval to that body he will have to obtain the approval of the consultative council, some of whose members might be thousands of miles away. Such a procedure for an urgent task is as tragic as it is farcical. Disaster could and would very easily strike while the formalities were pursued not only for days but for weeks. 
The honourable member for Lang has dealt with the deficiencies of this legislation in respect of the staff who will be employed by the Corporation. Scarcely any mention is made of superannuation- in this legislation.  Is it not realised that, so -far as the Snowy Mountains Authority itself was concerned, the superannuation scheme of that Authority closed in 1962 or 1963? No-one has been able to get on to a superannuation scheme in Snowy staff employment since that time. What happens to those who are transferred from the Snowy Mountains Authority to this new Corporation? What security of employment will there be for them? If they have 10 years employment with the Snowy Mountains Authority, then have 10 years employment with the new Corporation and are told then that they are not required further, what provision is there to be for them? 
May I make this further point: There will .be no inducement for anyone to stay with this new Corporation either from the point of view of security or from the point of view of possessing a challenging job. Many men joined the Snowy Mountains Authority and took far less money than they could earn in private enterprises because they were seized with the magnificent concept of this great water conservation and electricity scheme. Nothing challenging or inspiring to the enthusiasm of men is to be found in the very minor task which has been allotted to the new Corporation. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether he has received details of resolutions carried unanimously at the 1970 annual tax conference together with annotations on each resolution. Will the Government consider at the earliest opportunity the simplification of tax laws as well as the correction of taxation anomalies? 

Order! The honourable member is going beyond the point of order. He cannot make a statement without the leave of the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Oxley will resume his seat. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member is not entitled to proceed beyond the point of order. 


Is the amendment seconded? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether, in view of the anomalous position that has arisen in the States following a recent High Court decision, he will consider the desirability of introducing Commonwealth legislation to overcome the present situation under which State criminal law cannot apply to Commonwealth property within a State? 
ls the amendment seconded? 
In dealing with the motion I was pointing out that there are other aspects of a serviceman's work which place demands upon him which would never be accepted by a civilian worker. In the United Kingdom it has been suggested that these peculiar aspects of service life should be assessed in terms of a special factor called the X factor. This would take account of the special conditions of service life and provide a compensation factor in Service pay rates. This X factor, as defined by the Standing Committee on the Pay of the Armed Services, takes account of 4 basic elements peculiar to Service life. The first is the serviceman's commitment to his service and his subjection to a code of discipline which is more far reaching than in any form of civilian service. The second is the serviceman's exposure to danger on active service.  His  obligation as part of normal peacetime service to endure bad or uncomfortable conditions while in the field or on board ship is the third element. The final element is the constant upheaval and uncertainty imposed by the need for high mobility in a military force - the so-called turbulence of Service life. These constitute the X factor for which an additional increment should be incorporated into Service pay. This seems eminently reasonable. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Dury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is not relevant to the motion, which relates only to a joint select committee on benefits payable under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act, and is out of order. 
During two recent visits to the University of Queensland I had discussions with the  President  of the Staff Association and other University authorities. I promised to bring to the notice of this Parliament the difficult financial and other conditions and the mounting problems at the University and to present as soon as I could a case for supplementary financial assistance. In doing so, I have no desire to trespass on the preserves of the Queensland Government or of the University Senate. In a review of the fourth report of the Australian Universities Commission, 1969, the University of Queensland Staff Association submitted that the time had come for a wide ranging inquiry into tertiary education similar to that conducted by  Sir Keith  Murray in 1957. It is suggested that this would need to take into account the functions and development of Colleges of Advanced Education and the financial embarrassment of the State governments under the present formula for matching grants. 
I am convinced that on the present basis the staff-student ratio of 1:11 recommended in the Australian Universities Commission's report cannot possibly be achieved by the University of Queensland by 1972. Its recurrent grant per equivalent full time student is the lowest of all Australian universities. The unfavourable treatment meted out to Queensland in the past is, unfortunately, continuing in the present triennium. Although the extremes in relation to recurrent grants per equivalent full time student will be lower by 1972 than has previously been the case, an urgent need exists to make up lost ground in relation to other universities. An analysis shows that the University of Queensland has had to finance a disproportionately high percentage of its expenditure from fees. The percentage is higher than in all other Australian universities except Sydney and Melbourne, both of which were established earlier and ate fairly static. This is not the case in Queensland, where student numbers have increased in the last decade at more than twice the rate of any other university with the exception of Monash University. 
It was submitted by the Staff Association that Queensland's enrolment increase warrants different treatment from that accorded to the older, static universities. Total enrolments are so large that, for instance, in 1969 the difference of Si 14 in the recurrent grant between Queensland and Melbourne meant that Queensland would have gained $1,320,000 if it had been financed at the Melbourne rate, thus raising the year's recurrent funds from $14,443,000 to $15,763,000. It is claimed that this would have had very beneficial effects on the quality of teaching in terms of the staff-student ratio, library facilities, equipment and so on. The only Australian university whose growth in enrolments compares wilh Queensland is Monash. A growing university such as we have at St Lucia needs a high level of recurrent grant because of expenses connected with the appointment of new staff including in many cases transport from overseas, extra equipment which is required for practical work, and the quantity and variety of library materials needed for new courses which are established to break up very large classes. 
The Staff Association points out that, in the current inflationary period, the present annual increase is insufficient to cover rising costs. The figures show this. Two comparable universities - New South Wales and Monash - have both been allocated larger increases. The city of Brisbane as yet has no second university. The 1960s were years of steady and, at times, dynamic growth at St Lucia. Enrolments for 1970 exceeded the Commission's estimate by 1,229. This trend is almost certain to continue in 1971 and 1972. The  President  of the Staff Association has said that, on the projected enrolments, an increase of 195 staff would be needed to reach the required ratio. For 1970 a sum of $210,000 was set aside to appoint 65 new staff, but that figure had to be cut to $160,000 for 46 staff because of other needs. Even to achieve this modest increase in academic staff, cuts had to be made elsewhere. I am informed that the equipment vote to teaching departments at 
St Lucia has been cut by $136,817 compared to i969. After meeting rising costs in the form of new salary awards, extra staff to meet the demand for service, and spiralling costs of periodical subscriptions, the University library has been forced to cut book purchases by 20% in comparison with 1969. This surely is not good enough. 
Assistance is urgently needed to cope with the problem created by sharp increases in . non-academic salaries and wages, which are estimated by University authorities to cost the University an additional sum of well over $lm during the current triennium. The University authorities claim that this is an impossible burden to carry. For a long time now the universities have been pressing for additional funds to meet wholly unanticipated rises in non-academic salaries and wages. 
Due to severe and prolonged drought conditions in Queensland the State Government is in some difficulty financially; so it is clear that the initiative must come from the Commonwealth. In a nutshell the position is that in a fast moving wage situation the University of Queensland will find itself in an increasingly serious plight unless it receives supplementary financial assistance. The University authorities in Queensland have informed me that they will have to carry through to 1971 a deficit of at least $250,000. Additional wage burdens will arise from the national wage case. Next year the burden of supporting the deficit plus an additional $500,000 or more will be intolerable. Without a supplementary grant it is clear that the University of Queensland will not go forward in the 1970-72 triennium. On the other hand, I am sorry to say, it appears to be in grave danger of sliding backwards. Surely this is a crazy situation when we have regard to the extent of the operations of the University and the importance of those operations to the State and to the nation. 
I submit there is compelling evidence that the recurrent grant for Queensland is completely inadequate for the purposes suggested by the Australian Universities Commission. In spite of some recent re-arrangements and improvements, the University of Queensland Staff Association fears a further decline in facilities and working conditions during the 1970-72 triennium. Conditions of service as well as salaries must, needless to say, be adequate to attract and retain staff of the calibre required to maintain satisfactory standards. Accommodation problems are acute. I am informed that repeatedly teaching staffs have to move from one temporary location to another. The overcrowding of staff in some departments makes personal discussion with students extremely difficult or even impossible at times. The University is unable to provide some staff with offices at all, so they must work elsehwere. With no prospect of adequate accommodation before 1972, the implications of the situation for the housing of the additional staff who are to be appointed to improve the staff-student ratio can only be a worsening of the present conditions. University facilities are unable to meet the legitimate requirements of students for places in which to study. I have noticed myself that on occasions when the libraries are full some students have to sit on the floor. Lecture rooms are in short supply and seminar rooms are gradually disappearing as they are divided up to make unsatisfactory studies for teaching staff. There is serious overcrowding in the faculties of arts, architecture, chemical engineering and law. The law students have to work in unsatisfactory conditions and are appealing for a new law school in the coming triennium as the present law school in Queensland has the poorest facilities of any law school in Australia. Having studied the position myself, I strongly support the students' plea. A leading university authority has said: 
The provision of a decent university education depends on decent working conditions. 
Surely no-one would disagree with this. The Staff Association has pointed out that university maintenance and equipment services will have to be cut and that the overall situation is causing considerable unrest amongst staff and students. It is submitted that, in these circumstances, the recommended capital grant of $7,965,000 for 1970-72 should have been much greater. 1 believe that in Brisbane's subtropical climate there is a strong case foi air conditioning throughout the University and not only in the library. I hope that this suggestion will be considered favourably. 
Grants for computer equipment are needed to enable the computer centre to meet the growing demands on its services. 
I  understand that, owing to delays in dealing with submissions made by the University of Queensland, an amount of $2.4m unspent in the 1967-69 triennium was carried forward into the current triennium. As against this it is highly probable that the State Government will find itself unable  to  match the full Commonwealth capital grant for 1970-72. Inflation and increased building costs have eroded very considerably the real value of this capital money. In absolute size of capital grants since 19S8 the University of Queensland has received less than either the Sydney or Melbourne universities, both of which were well established on their present sites by that time. In terms of amount of capital grant per increase in student numbers, the figures show a gross injustice to Queensland. Continuing large capital grants to the University of Queensland will be needed to bring accommodation and facilities up to  a  standard comparable with those in other universities. In terms of buildings, the University of Queensland has been grossly undercapitalised. The Staff Association submits that it will take some considerable time to remedy the deficiencies even if funds are made available on a more realistic basis. The great fear is that there will be no opportunity to catch up if the financing of a new university at Mount Gravatt in the 1973-75 triennium prevents justice being done to the needs of St Lucia. I sincerely trust that this fear will prove to be unfounded. 
To sum up, the University of Queensland Staff Association submits, first, that recurrent grants for 1970-72 are completely inadequate to enable the University to meet the legitimate needs of study and research; secondly, that the claim that the recurrent grants are sufficient to improve the staff-student ratio to 1 to 11 is totally unrealistic; thirdly, that there is a need for flexibility and that a substantial supplementary grant should be made to remedy the situation and to meet the constantly growing needs resulting from the unexpectedly large increase in enrolments as well as the extremely steep increases in cost. I urge that prompt and favourable consideration be given to these submissions. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The purpose of my question to the Minister for Health is to clear up a point that was raised at a meeting in Brisbane at which I was present. In view of the potential threat to our livestock industries and to the Australian economy will the Minister confer with the Minister for Customs and Excise to ensure that every possible safeguard is taken to prevent the entry of foot and mouth disease into Australia? 
- Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Mt GARLAND (Curtin) [3.46]- Since this debate allows comment on any topic, I propose to address myself to foreign affairs and its effect on this country. Though events change from day to day, the basic reality of Australia's interests and existing conflicts have been static for at least 10 years. But the need for continuous review must . continue because of the deep differences between Government and Opposition in this House. As a nation we have always 2 great needs: To survive and to earn our living. Neither can be done in isolation from world events. Clearly, Australia has a great and increasing capacity to pursue its national objectives. They include security for its people to enjoy a high standard of living with truly satisfying lives in the widest sense and to contribute significantly to the world's less developed nations in every way - by general aid, education, food and contributing to international law and order, by resisting aggression, and influencing to the extent we are able truly peaceful co-operation between nations, based on justice, truth and mercy among men. We have already done much: Our influence is already much greater than our numbers or military power would indicate. Our attitudes and words have been careful and responsible. We have backed our words with deeds. Our neighbours regard us as trustworthy, and we are in the fortunate position of not disputing a claim with any country. But the world in which we must live and make our contribution contains much rivalry for power, great ideological conflicts which directly attack our basic principles and freedoms, a world in which one great group of power holds the principles of the Charter of United Nations in defiant contempt. 
We face the reality that, for at least 20 years, military power will be the main force in international relations; not reason or law. Yet the probability of world war between major powers has receded because of the deterrent of the nuclear equilibrium and I believe can arise only by miscalculation or accident. Our policy is directed to maintaining the equilibrium of the present world power, underneath which the world may progress and build until more peaceful and co-operative days; protecting ourselves with alliances and a contribution to current issues as they arise; and doing our utmost to encourage all towards restraint and eventual - howbeit exceedingly slow - inert accommodation between nations. How long and by what process of evolution that will happen no-one can foresee. But we must play our part with caution and strength. Having said that, I propose to look at Australia's position in the region in which we live, for I have no time to discuss other world problems, important though they are. 
Firstly, concerning the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, there is ample evidence around the world of aggressive intent to seize an advantage wherever possible, to exert sustained pressures, and amass an even mightier military power. That part of this may be to service their quarrel with Mainland China is of no consolation. That their policy to support Communism in South East Asia is, in part, an attempt to offset Chinese influence and hegemony is of no consolation. Importantly to our region it is clear that Russia aims to build the world's biggest navy and station substantial units in the Indian Ocean.  Mr R.  Blackman, a British naval expert, has described growing Soviet maritime power in this way 'What the USSR built in the 1960's looks like rising to a flood tide in the 1970s'. He advocates that the 12 nation naval force of NATO should be promoted from an international squadron to a supra-national fleet, to offset the shrinking' United States and United Kingdom navies. This Russian outsurge extends to all the seven seas, and certainly includes the Indian Ocean. How wide and prudent, therefore, is the Government's decision to build our naval base at Cockburn Sound, and. as I have said to meetings in Perth, I look forward to, and urge, continuous expansion right up to and well beyond the point where we have a 2-ocean navy. We will need such naval capacity in the region in which Australia lives. So. the announcement last week by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  that good progress is being made at Cockburn Sound is most welcome. 
Turning to the South East Asian mainland, the struggle in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos today is a struggle with the Communist states for the whole of Asia. The future freedom of Asia is being decided. So Australia's strategic position and consequent defence requirements need to be examined, if necessarily briefly. Our position can only usefully be seen in relation to our neighbours and our international associates. Our main concern is with East and South East of Asia; it is hard to imagine today circumstances in which Australia would send forces elsewhere. In Asia there is a struggle against the offensive Communist states, coupled, let me emphasise, with other important developments in this under-developed region, but using all those varied cold war techniques of subversion, insurgency and a whole variety of threats to the integrity of the small nations they wish to bring under their domination. All the evidence there is of Communist attacks, conduct of diplomacy, insurgency, materia) support - and their own official statements - give the clearest possible proof of these intentions. 
China is the centrepiece. That country has a standing army of 3,000,000 men - about 150 divisions - and 2,500 aircraft, a greatly expanding military capacity in socalled conventional and nuclear weapons, with ICBM's by 1972, soon sufficient to threaten major powers. This strength has been used already to support aggression and subversion of neighbours and thus upset the world balance of power. We do not yet know the effect of this growing nuclear capacity on her political and military intentions, and the effect on the policies of other states in the region, including India, Japan, Pakistan, Thailand and Indonesia, but we do know that, for some purposes, it is making big military efforts its people can ill-afford. However much China's actions are explained by Communist ideology, its imperialist history or its internal politics and nationalism, China's international conduct in Korea, Tibet, India and Russia and support of so-called national liberation fronts in South Vietnam. Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, etc. and its behaviour iti diplomacy around the world, amount to the clearest warning to us all. One hopes that, in time. China's leadership will change to a reasonable, well-intentioned and co-operative modern state, but it will take a long time. Meantime, our highest possible defence capacity will be our chief influence on events. 
China's possession of nuclear weapons, especially ICBM's, can only add to a sense of instability in the region and in the world. For instance, even India, and consequently Pakistan, must consider going nuclear. These are new factors emerging in our region. The recent tragic events in Laos and Cambodia are all too clearly results of aggression by a Communist state - North Vietnam - supported strongly by China and the USSR. There are now regular North Vietnamese troops in substantial force in Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam. Here blatant outside aggression, coupled with insurgency, threatens the independence of 3 States - all the agreements and pious hopes formerly expressed notwithstanding. Here are plain cases of neutrality not respected. of free peoples and independent states overrun because they were, in the main, defenceless. The domestic policies of the Western powers make adequate assistance impossible because of the many who are blind to strategic considerations and historical aggressive intent, and follow carefully prepared Communist propaganda which seeks to convince us that this is none of our concern and offers us, in the short terra, an easy way out - of withdrawing and doing nothing. Those who have criticised Australian and United States intervention and policy and who are dedicated to a world where small countries like Australia can remain free, need to examine whether their words and actions have given encouragement to the Communist nations. One consequence of this is the anticipated withdrawal of Thai forces and perhaps realignment of Thai policy. The Thais have every justification te be fearful. Events in Laos - the Communists have shamelessly ignored the 1962 Geneva Agreements - and the road being built right to the Thailand border in Laos bv Chinese are ominous indeed. 
In reviewing strategic considerations, some comments on our SEATO and ANZUS treaties ought to be made. As we all know, SEATO has not met all the hopes originally held. Laos and Cambodia are not now protocol states, South Vietnam is. Australia has responded to South Vietnam's call for assistance as a protocol state to SEATO even though some other countries in SEATO have not so responded. That South Vietnam is a sovereign state has been demonstrated many times by a majority of United Nations members. That is as clear as anything can be in international law. It is worth recalling SEATO's value today, as it is not inconsiderable. SEATO provided and has achieved United States intervention in South East Asia - in South Vietnam - and to meet large-scale North Vietnam aggression. It is, of course, not logical or honourable to suggest United States intervention without Australian intervention. SEATO thus prevented the immediate collapse of Indo-China. Weighty reassurance has been given to Thailand and Malaysia. It has provided defence consultants and practical co-operation of forces on South East Asian matters which go beyond ANZUS in making defence contacts in the United States itself, and the opportunity to learn procedures and practices. 
Concerning South Vietnam. I do not intend to indulge in al' the polemics or argument, moral and political, that is possible. The position as it is now is the one to face. Australia was obliged and has honoured its solemn treaty obligations, as it has every time in its history. We have, in our area in South Vietnam, considerably improved public safety and provided much aid and protection of it. We have provided medical clinics, schools, etc. We have again been a steady ally in difficult times, as we expect others to be to us. That makes an alliance of trust, confidence and moral strength which only true friends know and feel. It transcends ANZUS and cynical comments. 
ANZUS is important to our security, because agreements by those countries which are parties to it are always honoured, not the empty gestures we see so often elsewhere. ANZUS, of which so much is said, is most substantial because, allowing for wording made necessary by the United States Constitution, the moral obligation, and what is understood by all parties, is a strong one and a military one. The degree of commitment is not vague for, in the event of an overt substantial attack, a party could not absolve itself from action without a complete and public breach of faith which would be seen by the world and which would, rightly, affect a nation's prestige forever. That ANZUS applies to Western Australia too, as indicated by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in his statement of 18th August 1965 is, if I might interpose, of more than passing interest to me. But Americans, New Zealanders and Australians have more in common than their treaties. We feel free to criticise one another, as do any working partners. But further, in a real sense, Australia feels a kinship for Americans. It is a mistake to think the relationship is our defence need only: It is much deeper than that. Australians would be the last people to adopt, nationally, an attitude or outlook just to suit another country. We are ourselves and determined to be ourselves. With a family relationship, we are like so many families - fiercely independent. 
The free world certainly should acknowledge the great efforts of the Americans in South East Asia in the interests of free and small nations. The region has presented them with many problems and difficulties which they have faced with courage, determination and justice as an historical act that again indicates the great and honourable cation it is. Australia's interests were and are greatly assisted, for again and again it has been shown that to refer a matter to the United Nations Organisation for solution is not in itself a constructive policy. In the circumstances, our expenditure is a minimum, even at $l,100m per annum, and must increase steadily. Our defence forces will and must, as a continuing process, seek the best use of that vote among the array of priorities presenting. 
Naturally, as one who lives less than a mile from the Indian Ocean, I am interested in the defence capacity's relation to Western Australia. As Western Australia is so close to Indonesia, so are the people of Western Australia interested. Our forces in South East Asia and the mobility of forces are of direct interest to them, as I have frequently stated in Perth and elsewhere, and so is the strengthening in Western Australia itself - the upgrading of Learmonth as an air base to take aircraft of any type; the building of the Cockburn Sound base; the $5m for improvements to and enlargement of Pearce Royal Australian Air Force base and, I hope, a new army camp near Perth soon. I am glad that an exercise by Gurkha and Australian troops is to take place later this year in Western Australia. May such defence expansion and training continue. I shall be with those who press for it. 
Cambodia, traditionally proud but militarily weak and economically poor, is, without blame, to suffer a devastation if it is to remain free - and worse if it is not. It was a pleasant place, contrasted with South Vietnam in war as I saw in a visit to both countries early in 1968, even if badly led. Remembering that visit, how one is reminded of the saying: 'Put not your trust in princes'. Like every South East Asian country, economic development and land reform are prerequisites to progress but ruthless Communist dictatorship makes life insensitive, harsh and without those basic principles which give social expression and the full life their deepest meaning. Cambodia needs badly a harnessing of the rivers for rebuilding an irrigation system, achieved by the dynasty of Ankor Wat centuries ago to get two crops per year. Many such enterprises with foreign aid and local work in LDC's are to give way to war and worse. Real progress of this type can and, I hope, will be done here in Laos, 
South Vietnam and other countries, but real peace is a prerequisite and aggression puts freedom and progress backward. 
There is not time to discuss today the growing influence and policy of other countries in the region beyond passing comments on two of them. 
Japan, with its population of 100 million and defence capacity 10 times bigger than Australia's already, is of rapidly increasing importance in the strategic forces to be felt in the region. Its future relations with China on the one hand and the other nations on the other hand are most important factors which will emerge shortly. Australia must study this position with close interest and perhaps with some concern. Japan's changing relations with the United States, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and South East Asian countries probably will have dramatic influences before long. 
Indonesia, our closest neighbour, has a population of 120 million. With an army of some 300,000 and a smallish navy its forces are relatively minor in the region and relations with Australia are excellent. There can be little doubt that the resistance of the Indonesian generals to the 196S Communist coup was stiffened greatly by the presence of United States and other forces in South Vietnam. Thus can efforts in maintaining freedom have most helpful byproducts. As is known, Indonesia has vast economic problems and it was most gratifying to hear the Australian Government's recent decision giving, not lending, aid of $60m to Indonesia. I hope we will give every assistance to the development of Indonesia's undoubted mineral wealth - that mineral belt which crosses much of the country from west to east - so that the people of Indonesia can help themselves to derive significant internal income to meet their great needs. Furthermore. Australia should see that Australians and not only Japanese have, an opportunity to bc involved in this development, as I understand that in this development we would be most welcome. 
From all these comments the only sober conclusion that can be made on our strategic position is that it has not been improved by recent events in the past months; it has worsened. It is appalling and tragic therefore that the Labor Party - the Opposition, and the only alternative government offering - should take so little cognisance of the real position. It seems to depend for policy on the understandable emotion that the war engenders, supported by the technical and practical limits of television as a news medium which tends to see the war exclusively in terms of combat and casualties, to the exclusion of ideas and issues. There is a reluctance to ask: Who is responsible and what is the alternative? 
It is well to remember that some members of the Labor Party first favoured our commitment in Vietnam. Now the left wing, having apparently taken over in all States, including, now, New South Wales, is opposed to it in every respect. It can be demonstrated that Labor's pleas are always to do less in defence. Occasionally members of the Labor Party speak as though they favour defence measures, but I remind the House that their contributions to debates in recent times lead us to see that they wish an Australian withdrawal from South Vietnam and Malaya. They want less done on defence, though they show a perhaps understandable interest, as we have just heard, in servicemen. They criticise everything - Australia's overseas service, its forward defence concept, conscription and army adequacy, Fill aircraft, Phantoms - they praised them before this Government leased Phantoms - most major defence purchases, Vietnam and SEATO obligations. Their leader in  1954  challenged the preamble to the SEATO Agreement. 
The Australian Labor Party offered the implausible nuclear-free zone as policy and criticised President Kennedy's stand against the attempt of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to put missiles on Cuba. Often Labor speakers talk of the Labor Government's war effort, implying neglect by the Menzies Government. But prior to the end of  1939  they opposed the creation of the Second AIF, the British Empire Air Training Scheme and compulsory military service, and many and emphatic were the Labor speakers who assured the House that war was not imminent. The Labor Party is historically against defence preparations and ignores external threats and realities of aggression because of bogies about big business and United States imperialism. It is just as silly to think that good will inevitably come from the situation in South 
East Asia as it is to think that it must be bad. I maintain that our position at present is worsening, but no result is inevitable. We must realistically judge the position from day to day and not be reluctant to resist aggression and plan and build our defence, even at cost. If international law and order existed disarmament would be everybody's aim - let no-one doubt that - but without it Labor's policy is a policy of diminishing defence, which at this moment is a policy of recklessness. Domestic politics in Australia have reached such a pitch that the Labor Party, in particular the Leader of the Opposition, seems to believe in, and be so excited at, the prospect of government that principles, Australian interests and responsibilities have gone out the window. There are many examples. Listen to what the Labor Leader said in the House on 22nd April  1970.  He said: 
The Government has backed every move for tho escalation of the war and resisted every move to limit it or end it. The result of its policy of prolongation has been that the whole of IndoChina is now engulfed in civil and racial war. 
This is a reduction of a matter of the most serious character in our age to an appallingly low level. It is purely party politics. No consideration has been given to the aggressive acts of North Vietnamese troops, Russian and Chinese assistance or treaty obligations. There has been not even a small acknowledgment of any influence or presence at all of Communist forces. It is all our fault, according to Labor. Realistic policy cannot be formed in a political vacuum. It is significant that most of those who have visited these countries in South East Asia usually express views which accord with the attitude of this Government and express the belief that the South Vietnamese cause is right. The United Kingdom Labour Government was not for withdrawal and did its best to negotiate, using its position of Co-Chairman of the Geneva Conference, but its official statements were in accord with the Australian Government's view and its successive Foreign Ministers have been quite clear as to the interpretation of events. Theirs was a reasonable attitude. 
If we were to desert our allies in the field what would the United States - our friends - and our enemies around the world think of us, of the agreements we have signed and the undertakings we have given? These are weighty issues. But if history has any lesson it is that naked, deliberate force must be met. Resistance does not cure every problem - it is only a beginning - but it is the foundation upon which all can be built. 
It is one thing to express the Opposition's professional gloom about the Australian economy and the Budget but it is quite another thing to take an exaggerated, false and misleading position in matters of this import. Members of Parliament on both sides have a solemn duty to be responsible and to guard Australian security. One would have hoped for at least a lessening of the deep differences in defence policies between the major political parties. Surely this is a time for a bi-partisan policy in the interests of Australia. This is a time for the long view, not the short view. I credit most members of the Labor Party with loyal, honest and patriotic intentions without reserve, but Labor's present policy takes grave risks and would leave us exposed in the face of every warning. Wc Government supporters are chided for making political capital, but these policies need not be the issues they ate. The solution is in Labor's hands. 
I know that there are many sincere, well-intentioned people who have sought Australia's withdrawal from South Vietnam. 1 equally know that there are many Communists and Communist sympathisers who want us out and want the Viet Cong to win and want Communist states to take over South East Asian countries one by one. We must see the position for what it is and not fall back into a position far worse and costly in days to come. This is no time for any Australian in a partisan mood to react into a policy of dangerous complacency against all the evidence. 
I speak in this debate as a member of the Standing Orders Committee which gave  a  lot of consideration to many of the mailers under discussion. I realised there would possibly be amendments suggested. The last meeting of the Standing Orders Committee was held on 10th June, nearly 3 months ago. Since that time honourable members have had the advantage of talking to one another here during this Budget session and I think some of us have realised that we need a greater degree of flexibility than we thought was necessary 3 months ago. For that reason I go along with the view expressed tonight by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  based on an extract from a letter he received from  Mr Speaker  concerning the hig strain which would be placed on the officers of the House should there be an early start. 1 need not read it again as it has already been read a couple of times during the course of the debate tonight. I am one of those who are prepared to be flexible and I hope, reasonable and I think this Parliament should aim at achieving a greater degree of economy and efficiency. I do not think there would be any disagreement on those points. Having regard to the information imparted to the House by  Mr Speaker  through the Leader of the House, I feel that the starting time should be changed from 2 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. and in the case of morning sittings from 10 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. in order not to place any greater strain than is necessary on the administrative officers of the Parliament without whom - I cannot stress this too much - the Parliament simply could not function. 
It is all very well for some honourable member opposite to say that he feels (he first and paramount interests are those of honourable members. We could not function as a Parliament without 'the several hundred people who are associated wilh the running of the Parliament and who cannot speak for themselves as we can in this chamber. Therefore it is up to us as members to take them into consideration and reflect on how these decisions might affect them. It is very easy to make a decision thai we will meet at 10 a.m. and leave aside the realisation that this is placing perhaps an undue strain on senior officers who have had only 5 or 6 hours sleep the night before. I am against this early start for this human reason.'! believe it also bears on the efficiency of the Parliament. 
I also wish to say something about the very thoughtful memorandum which was circulated by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I know he appreciates all the difficulties involved but I do not agree with him that this is something which could be introduced within a matter of months or perhaps a year. I would go along with him on the basis that in all probability at some future time this Parliament will find itself in a position to sit during the dinner break from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., assuming the dinner break is still the same when that time comes. 
During the last few days I have made it my business to discuss with the heads of various departments in this Parliament just how they and their staffs would be affected if the Parliament were to decide to sit through the dinner break. I will be as brief as I can because I know there are other honourable members who wish to speak on this,. but I think it is important to go a little further than other honourable members have gone tonight. The administrative staff would need to be increased by approximately 30 per cent to enable this House to sit through meal breaks and accomplish the amount of work we visualise we should be doing in a sitting day. I leave out of account the question of increased cost and the question of overtime. I do not take them into account under any of these headings. In connection with the Hansard staff, the Principal Parliamentary Reporter told me he would need an increase of 30 per cent in this staff and an equivalent increase in accommodation. The plain fact is that in this building we do not have any extra accommodation for an increased Hansard staff, even if an increase in the staff were capable of achievement. I understand it is not. Trained reporters are just not available to be recruited to the Hansard staff. 
I feel it is a false analysis at this point of time to compare the working of this Parliament with that of Westminster. I wish to quote one or two figures in respect of the Hansard situation. At Westminster there is a minimum of IS reporters always available; 9 reporters are available for this House. I repeat that it is no good thinking in terms of adding to the staff unless we have accommodation for them. I understand the present Hansard reporters hardly ever get a full meal break to themselves. J believe this is wrong. We should see to it as members of this House that the staff gets its full entitlement in relation to meal breaks and all other considerations. As I understand it, at the present time the pressures are so great upon the reporters we do have on our Hansard staff that they very frequently have to use a good part of their meal break in correcting proofs and doing other work, especially since the introduction of the daily Hansard. This is a matter involving a great deal of intense high pressure work on the part of the reporters. Other people such as the Government Printer and his staff also are affected by the daily Hansard. 
There are a great many people who have to be considered quite apart from the members of this House. I agree that there should be facilities for committees to meet. I am flexible as to when they should meet. I believe adequate time and opportunity must be made available to all the committees - the Government members' committees, the Opposition committees, the joint statutory committees, the standing committees and the select committees. We would all agree that they are a most important and integral part of the parliamentary machine. I am speaking of the difficulties involved in sitting through meal breaks. I come back to the matter of the refreshment rooms, having dealt with the position of Hansard. 
I am informed that the situation in the refreshment rooms is that there would be very little difficulty in relation to the lunch, break if it were decided now or at some future time to sit through the lunch hour, but there would be very serious difficulties in relation to sitting through the normal dinner adjournment from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. I am told by those in charge of the refreshment rooms that it would be necessary to extend meal times. We normally eat between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. and then do committee work between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. I understand that if the Parliament decided to sit during the meal hours from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. this would mean greatly increased overtime and great difficulties in connection with staff, because a number of the waitresses are married women. It is believed that many of them would not be prepared to stay on for the necessary extra time for members to have their meals up to 8 o'clock. It might even be 8.30 p.m. before they were able to get away and return home. At the present time a big percentage of the dining room staff return home at about 7.30 p.m. That is only a very short glimpse at some of the mechanical difficulties and the human and personal problems that would be aggravated if the Parliament at this stage were to decide to sit through the dinner adjournment. We do not want to contemplate the loss of any of our staff. I am told that it is difficult enough to recruit suitable and competent staff for the refreshment rooms, for Hansard and for administrative purposes. Let us not make any decision at this point of time that we are going to be sorry about later. 
I have endeavoured to cover, as briefly as I can, the situation that would apply - as I have been able to discover it - if we were to make a decision in favour of sitting through meal breaks at this juncture. Therefore, I am personally opposed at this stage to sitting through meal breaks. I think that there are other aspects, too, in relation to sitting through meal breaks that perhaps would have to be considered when the time came, such as the question of some matter suddenly blowing up. It is all very well to say that there would be  Mr Speaker  in the Chair, the Hansard reporter, the Minister in charge of the Bill before the House and the people on boy sides of the chamber who are speaking in the debate. But as I see it there would need to be a great deal of organisation, and I would hope that we would hasten slowly in respect of such a major change as has been put to us by the Minister for Social Services. 
My final point is in relation to the finishing time at night and here again I think we are all pretty much of the same mind. We dc not want to sit later than we have to, but at the same time I think it is necessary to realise that there are occasions when some very important matter comes up in the adjournment debate when members do want to speak and use this occasion to express views on a particular problem, and the time to speak about it is when it is current. It might be something that needs to be discussed that very night. Therefore I think that by arrangement with the Leader of the House there needs to be a degree of flexibility in relation to the actual time of the rising of the 
House. 1 am not hard and fast in my views on this. I am reminded in this discussion of the old saying that he who never changes any of his opinions never corrects any of his mistakes. I am not ashamed to say that during the last 3 months, having thought about this quite a lot and having discussed these points with other members and with senior staff officers of this Parliament [ have slightly changed my views on certain aspects and I have endeavoured to put them to the House tonight. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of External Affairs for the current financial year, I should like, firstly, to take the opportunity of offering my congratulations to the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  and his departmental officers for the splendid work which they are doing on behalf of Australia. 1 include among the departmental officers the many people who serve Australia in overseas missions. Some of them serve in difficult places whilst others serve in dangerous places. I believe that this is a suitable time and occasion for me to pay my tribute to the many people who unobtrusively in many cases and efficiently in almost all cases further Australia's interests in various parts of the world. There is no doubt that this country has been playing and is continuing to play an ever increasing role in the world scene. We should be very proud of the Department of External Affairs and its officers in Australia as well as the various people who serve in overseas missions. Some of them do so at a good deal of personal inconvenience, because they have to send their children to school in some other place. 
I am very pleased indeed that in this current year an increased vote has been provided by the Government, particularly in relation to external aid. My main remarks will be related to this question of external aid. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  in making his Budget Speech for 1970-71 on 18th August said that the Government will provide approximately $200m this year for external aid. The basis on which financial assistance will be provided to Papua and New Guinea this year has been changed to accord with the recent arrangements to transfer greater responsibility and control over expenditures to elected Ministerial Members and the Administrator's Executive Council in the Territory. The estimates envisage an additional $11. 2m for economic aid to Papua and New Guinea as well as increased aid to various other countries, including in particular Indonesia, South Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand and the islands in the South Pacific. 
During the current session legislative authority will be sought for an Australian contribution to the value of $US10m over the next 3 years to the special funds of the Asian Development Bank. I feel that the people of Australia would be pleased and proud to know that this country again ranked among the first 3 donor countries in the world in 1969 in terms of the percentage of gross national product devoted to official development assistance to poorer countries. We class ourselves as a Christian country and a Christian democracy. I believe it is our bounden and moral duty to do what we can to help those less fortunate countries in the world, particularly those which are geographically near to us. In relation to South East Asia and the other countries in our region we are playing a helpful role and an ever increasing role and we are making even firmer the friendships that we have formed with those countries. Geography has placed us close to one another and for all time we will live in this region. I hope that we shall get closer and closer to one another and create deeper mutual respect and understanding as time goes by. 
An interesting and valuable booklet called 'Australia's International Aid' was put out by the Department of External Affairs in April this year. I will not take time to read passages from it, but anybody wishing to read a brief summary of the background to Australia's international aid, the reasons therefor, the various projects in which Australia has been and is participating and the amounts being spent on the various Australian aid projects overseas, could not do better than to read this little booklet. It contains only about  23  pages and is very readable.  1  refer to it only in passing but I believe it is a most interesting and helpful book for anyone who wants to understand more of the background to and the reasons for Australia's international aid. 
In statement No.  8  attached to the Budget papers there is set out detailed information under the heading 'External Aid'. Unfortunately time is not on my side and  1  cannot hope to cover very much of it. I draw the attention of honourable members who are interested to the details in that statement. The table falls into  3  sections. It lists various items of expenditure which can fairly readily bc identified as economic, or non-military, aid to developing countries. It shows the actual expenditure in  1968-69,  the actual expenditure in  1969-70,  the estimated expenditure for the current financial year,  1970-71,  and the increase or decrease.  1  am happy to say - and those who have already studied this schedule, as I am sure many honourable members have, would have noticed with pleasure - that in most cases there are increases and in some cases there are substantial increases over the past financial year. 
The  3  main headings are: Multilateral aid agreements, bilateral aid agreements and aid to Papua and New Guinea, which is a very special section. For those who may be listening and who may be interested to know something of the broad sweep of the details under those headings I will quickly run through a few of the headings under each section without going into the amounts, because time will not permit it. The multilateral aid agreements cover contributions to the International Development Association, the Asian Development Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, the United Nations Children's Fund, the World Food Programme, the South Pacific Commission, the Regional Projects for Economic Cooperation in Asia, and the International Red Cross. The total amount of multilateral aid provided in the Budget for the current financial year is  $12,698,000,  which is an increase over the present year of  $2,218,000.  That is a very substantial increase in relation to the multilateral aid agreement. 
The bilateral aid includes the Colombo Plan. I would like, if time permits, to say something in more detail about the Colombo Plan. Also under the heading of bilateral aid is included special aid to South Vietnam, special aid to Cambodia, the Food Aid Convention under the International Grains Arrangement, the SEATO Aid Programme, the Indus Waters Scheme, the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund for Laos, the ASPAC Registry of Scientific and Technical Services, the ASPAC Food and Fertiliser Technology Centre, the Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan, the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education Scheme, the South Pacific Aid Programme, the Australian International Awards Scheme, disaster relief contributions, Australian-Asian University Aid and Co-operation Scheme, emergency refugee relief for Nigeria, and practical training for Papuans and New Guineans. The total of bilateral aid under all those various items I have mentioned for the current year amounts to  $45,198,000,  which is an increase of  $4,836,000  over the last financial year. 
I think that most honourable members are fairly familiar with the situation  ia 
Papua and New Guinea. It is mentioned from time to time in the House. Broadly speaking, the aid to Papua and New Guinea covers grants to the Administration, grants for development, allowances under various headings and payments for particular budget equalisation purposes. 1 think that honourable members would be fairly familiar with these. It is interesting to note that for the current year .the total estimated expenditure under this heading is $126,100,000, an increase of $11,216,000 over the past financial year. The grand total under all of those 3 headings - multilateral aid, bilateral aid, and aid to Papua and New Guinea - is an estimated expenditure for the current financial year of $183,996,000. That is an increase of $18,270,000 over the past financial year, a remarkable increase. I feel it is something that we as a nation can be proud of. We can point with satisfaction to an increasing involvement and an increasing degree of practical aid under a multitude of headings in our region of the world and beyond. 
Time is running out, and I turn now to the Colombo Plan. I would like to say something in particular about the Colombo Plan because this is by far Australia's largest bilateral aid programme. As honourable members know it covers a wide range of activities including the training of overseas students and officials in many different subjects in educational institutions, government services and private industry in Australia as well as the assignment of Australian experts in various fields to work and teach in developing countries. It also embraces the provision of heavy machinery and equipment for large construction projects - for example, highways, bridges, dams and town water supplies - undertaken in collaboration with foreign governments. In addition it includes the installation of radio telecommunication systems, assistance in the rehabilitation of 'telephone and railway networks and gifts of such diverse items as trucks, buses, landrovers, irrigation and farm equipment, dredges, pumps, railway wagons and sleepers, hospital and broadcasting equipment, wool, bakery equipment, and lathes and teaching aids for vocational training institutes. Various other commodities and manufactured goods have been given to developing countries under the Colombo Plan. 
The total provision for the Colombo Plan in 1970-71 of $26,397,000 is 14.4 per cent greater than the actual expenditure under this head in the previous financial year. Again, I suggest, a most satisfactory increase. Australia has undertaken to provide $53,570,000 in bilateral aid to Indonesia over this and the next 2 financial years. J will not dilate on this because the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is to speak more particularly on the subject of Indonesia and aid to Indonesia. The total amount of aid to be provided to South Vietnam in 1970-71, excluding purely military aid, is $3,500,000 compared with the expenditure of just over $2m in the previous financial year. This will be spread over the votes for the Colombo Plan, the SEATO aid programme and the new item of special aid to South Vietnam. Under the heading of bilateral programmes there is provision for special aid to Cambodia and aid for road building projects in Thailand. All these are worthwhile contributions to those countries with which we wish to be friendly and live on closer terms in the years ahead. To me and I am sure to all honourable members irrespective of party it is a matter of great satisfaction to be able to look at a set of figures like this and a programme of international aid which we know is making a very real contribution to the progress, happiness and future of those countries which we wish well. 
It seems that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  takes an unnecessarily gloomy view of the outlook for education in Australia. I remind him that it is only a few short years since the Commonwealth came actively into the field of education. If we care to glance back through the records during the 5 years or so since the Department of Education and Science was established, with the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  as the first Minister for Education and Science, I believe that we have reason to be satisfied with the progress we have made. That is not to say, of course, that everything has yet been ironed out - far from it. There are still problems, as the honourable member for Barton said. 
The honourable member referred specifically to the teacher training field and to the shortage of teachers. This is true, and it is a problem which is affecting not only Australia. He referred also to the waste of potential amongst students. Undoubtedly  there  is a degree of waste of potential, but I suggest that that wastage is becoming less and less. As the Commonwealth is assisting more and more in the education field, I believe that greater use will be made of this talent in each year. I think that looked at against the figures and the context of the Appropriation Bill which we are examining, there is all the more reason to be satisfied with the progress we are making. 
I should like to compliment the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  on his plans for the extension of our educational and scientific programmes and services for the current financial year. If one glances at pages 25 to 30 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, one sees very substantial increases in allocations over the previous financial year, 1969-70. As the Minister has pointed out, this has resulted from the introduction of new measures as well as from the continued development of programmes already in operation. 
I should like to say a special word about the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Earlier this afternoon the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  referred to this Organisation. He referred particularly to the system of promotion. I want to express special appreciation of the brilliant work that has been done over a long period of time by very dedicated officers of the CSIRO. They do much credit to the Organisation and to this country. I believe that their work is recognised in many parts. 
I want to say a word, too, about the Metric Conversion Board. I do not think that reference has yet been made to this matter in the course of the debate, but it is a subject in which I am particularly interested. I am pleased to see the provision of $107,000 to further metrication in Australia. I trust that the Government, in co-operation with the various sections of the community, will press forward and exert every endeavour to ensure that we achieve complete metrication in Australia within the 10 year period which the Minister mentioned when he introduced a Bill some time ago. 
The Australian Universities Commission is a very important body which deserves particular mention. It does a lot of hard work - particularly the  Chairman.  I notice that $220,000 has been allocated to the Commission this year. I suggest that the time is coming when it may be necessary to have more full time members of the Commission. I understand that the  Chairman  is still the only full time member of the Commission, and it seems to me that he is carrying a very heavy burden. With the growing problems in universities - a number of universities have very acute problems - perhaps consideration will need to be given to the appointment of some additional full time personnel to assist the  Chairman  in the very large and important task which he is performing. 
In his Budget Speech on 18th August, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  expressed the view that the greatly improved system of general revenue grants to the States over the next 5 years should enable them to do much more for education than hitherto. 1 draw to the attention of the honourable member for Barton and to those other honourable members opposite who have been critical about education and expenditure on education, particularly in the state field, the fact that substantially larger allocations are being made for education in this current financial year. In a direct and an indirect way the Commonwealth is assisting more and more in this very important field of education. I think that my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who spoke earlier, pointed out that there has been a 25 per cent increase in the allocation for education in this financial year, 1970-71, over the allocation for 1969-70. I believe it is a healthy sign that there is a continuing demand for greater expenditure and effort in the overall field of education. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  referred to this fact. He is an educationist of note. 1 agree with him when he said that the field is virtually unlimited. In a young and developing country like Australia, with a very great future before it, there will continue to be a growing demand in all fields of education. Specific purpose payments to the States are expected to rise this year from $148m to approximately $19Im - in other words, by 29 per cent over last year. That is not an inconsiderable increase. The Budget Papers show that the main items in this category will be payments of $78m to universities; payments of $35m to colleges of advanced education; payments of $48m for special purpose unmatched grants for school facilities, technical colleges, and teacher training colleges; and per capita grants of $24m towards the running costs of independent schools. 
Another very pleasing aspect of the Government's increased education pro gramme - despite what has been said by the honourable member for Barton and one or two other honourable members opposite - is the expansion of the Commonwealth scholarship scheme. I agree with the honourable member for Denison when he says that there will be a very satisfactory expansion of Commonwealth scholarships in this current financial year. The number of open entrance university scholarships is to be increased by 1,000 to a total of 8,500, in addition to the present 4,000 later-year university awards and 2,500 advanced education awards. The number of post-graduate awards for research training will be increased from 650 to 700, and a new category of postgraduate awards far course work leading to master's degrees will be created. A total of 100 of these new awards will be provided in 1970-71. 
Contrary again to what one or two members opposite have said, 1 believe that the national survey on education conducted by the Commonwealth in conjunction with the States will prove to be of great benefit as time goes on. I do not agree with the concept advanced by honourable members opposite concerning the centralised control of education in Australia. I am totally opposed to it. I think perhaps that we need to be reminded - certainly honourable members opposite do--that constitutionally education is primarily the responsibility of the States. But nevertheless the Commonwealth has, in my view, very properly provided increased financial assistance to education in a variety of ways. 
There is no need for me to emphasise the ever-growing importance in education of the role of the teaching profession. I believe that the Commonwealth's role in the overall field of education needs to be clarified, and no doubt this will be done in the future. As I see it the Commonwealth and the States must co-operate and work closely together in order to obtain the best possible result and this is being done through the nation-wide survey and the Australian Education Council. In the rapidly growing field of tertiary education there is, I submit, a strong case for a review of the present formula for matching grants. Capital grants are matched on a £1 for $1 basis but the recurrent grants formula of $1 for $1.85 calls for a review having regard to the financial position of some States. I am thinking particularly of diy own State of Queensland. Tn my speech during the second reading debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) I put forward the view that the time has come for a wide-ranging inquiry into tertiary education similar to that conducted by  Sir Keith  Murray in 1957. I was interested this afternoon to hear this view supported by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
Increased overhead costs of universities, particularly in relation to sharp rises in non-academic salaries and wages, warrant urgent consideration. It is clearly beyond the present capacity of the State Government to provide the extra financial assistance needed in Queensland and I repeat the plea that I made here on 27th August. It should be stressed that the vast majority of university students in this country are hard working and law abiding and are anxious to obtain their degrees. This fact tends to be obscured by the publicity given to the activities of a handful of radicals and extremists whose aim appears to be to cause trouble and disruption. I sincerely trust that genuine university needs will not be prejudiced by the highly unpopular actions of a very small minority on the campuses. I believe it is most important that the real needs of the University of Queensland at St Lucia be met in the current triennium, particularly as increased grants will have to be made in the next triennium towards the establishment of a second university at Mount Gravatt. 
The demand for tertiary education has partly been met by the colleges of advanced education but as was mentioned earlier by the honourable member for Fremantle and as is pointed out at page 1 of the second report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education these colleges are 'an evolving concept not susceptible to close definition*. Their development is aimed at extending the scope of tertiary education io  meet  our growing technological needs. At page 77 of its second report, the Commonwealth Advisory Committee states: 
Australia's problems in tertiary education differ in some respects from those of other countries and Australia should attempt to adapt the best in other systems to its own needs and resources and to learn from mistakes made elsewhere. 
At page 78 under the heading 'The Education Explosion' the Committee refers to the growing numbers of secondary school leavers who want to continue with tertiary education and the importance of considering the motivation of students who undertake tertiary studies. The whole of chapter 10 of the report - no doubt some honourable members have read it as I did with interest - under the heading Trends in Tertiary Education' deserves the most careful study and after examining the systems followed over the years in a number of countries the chapter concludes with these words, inter alia, on 'Forward Planning': 
The trend in the past has been for educational systems to evolve slowly to meet changing conditions and too often changes have been forced upon them by the demands of the community  . . Standardisation and uniformity must not be the aim. Imaginative use of the results from well-selected investigations will lead to sufficient flexibility to enable the needs of each individual be met. 
Surely this should bc our goal in Australia. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Interior and by way of preface I refer to a statement made on 13th May last by the Minister with regard to the siting of the High Court of Australia and the National Art Gallery near Lake Burley Griffin a short distance from Parliament House. Will the Minister inform the House whether design studies for the National Art Gallery and preliminary planning for the High Court building are proceeding? 

 - Mr Chairman, pages 50 to 59 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, which is now before the Committee, show that the estimated expenditure for the Department of the 
Interior for the current financial year is $103,167,000 as against an actual expenditure for the financial year 1969-70 of $92,381,674. 1 should like at the outset to compliment the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  on the very capable and efficient way in which he handles a very difficult portfolio. This Department has many ramifications. There are many, many things for the Minister to consider. Personally, I always have found him most approachable and ready to consider any proposition that is put to him. I appreciate, as other honourable members do, the way in which he so competently administers his Department. I pay tribute also to the very many departmental officials in all the various branches of the Department of the Interior who provide such efficient service to this nation. 1 wish to say something in particular tonight with regard to one branch of the Department of the Interior. That is the Electoral Branch. The estimated expenditure for the Electoral Branch for this financial year, as shown at page 50 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, is $4,582,000. On 12th March of this year, I put to the Minister for the Interior a question without notice. It was a twofold question. In the first part, I asked the Minister: 
Will he consider the introduction of mobile polling booths for use at major hospitals to replace the present unsatisfactory voting procedures at these institutions? 
Those of us who have any knowledge of voting procedures at major public hospitals, large convalescent homes and the like, cannot but be of the one mind, I am sure, that there is room for improvement. 1 believe that the present methods are slow. They are cumbersome. They are outmoded. I point out just as an illustration that in Queensland - my own State - mobile polling booths are used satisfactorily and efficiently at these institutions for State and municipal elections. I would be very grateful to the Minister if he would pursue his inquiries into the possibility of introducing mobile polling booths for Federal election purposes. 
The second part of my question consisted of a request to the Minister in this form: 
Will he also consider abolishing the present practice of handing how to vote cards to electors  at  the entrance to polling booths and in lieu thereof provide for the display of authorised how to vote cards in every cubicle in every polling booth?  1 suggest that this should be done throughout the country. This seems to me to be a fairly straightforward suggestion. It would need to be considered carefully. If this system were to be decided upon, the printing would need to be uniform. It would need to be clear. It would need to be easily readable. The authorised cards would need, I suggest, to be fixed to the wall in every cubicle and probably would need to be covered with glass so that the wags could not scribble rude remarks on them. 
I am reminded of the story of the old lady who went into a polling booth and asked the presiding officer to assist her because she was very confused. There were 17 or 18 candidates in the Senate election being held and she did not know one from the other. The presiding officer, quite rightly, declined and said: 'I am sorry, madam, but this is something that 1 cannot do'. He took her to a cubicle. She wrote on her ballot paper: 'God bless them all'. This may not be a very constructive approach but it may be a very well meaning approach. I do ask the Minister most seriously whether he will consider this suggestion. 
If I may reminisce for a moment, 1 first put this forward at least 10 years ago - possibly more - in this chamber. I was supported by certain other members at that time. They included the late  Mr Bruce  Wight, who was the member for Lilley, and the late  Mr George  Lawson, who was the member for Brisbane for many years. They were very strong supporters of my proposal in relation to this new method. When 1 say 'new method', it is in fact the method adopted in Britain. It works well there. I do not think anyone would suggest that the Australian electors are any less intelligent than electors in Britain. It has been argued, I know, that in Britain voting is not compulsory whereas voting is compulsory in this country. But I still feel that, if there were a will, a way would be found. The present system is not economical. The system that I am advocating would be much more economical. The present system, I submit, is costly and wasteful to all political parties. 
I believe that almost all electors have made up their minds how they are to vote before they reach -the entrance to a polling booth. I do not think that they need to have handful after handful of how to vote cards thrust into their hands by the representatives of all the various candidates and political parties. A real scrimmage takes place to be the last to put a how to vote card into the hand of some elector, who is harassed on the way to vote. I suggest that this harassment is unnecessary. I suggest that this harassment is outmoded. I suggest that the system, the adoption of which I propose, would be much more acceptable to electors than the present system that we have followed for so many years. 
I wish to say a word or two regarding polling hours. I believe that the present polling hours for Federal purposes - that is, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. - are too long. Each polling day is a long and arduous day for all the returning officers, the presiding officers, the poll clerks and all those who sit at tables hour after hour in this very detailed and responsible work. I have advocated previously, as serine of my other friends whom I have mentioned and other honourable members of this chamber have advocated also in previous years, thai there be a revision of the polling hours and that consideration be given to reducing them to 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. I have in mind the voting hours in Queensland which are from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. for the purpose of State and municipal elections. I understand that in some States the polling hours are from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. whereas in certain other States they are the same as for Federal purposes, that is, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
If the 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. voting method operates successfully in some States, as it does in Queensland, I suggest that it could be made uniform successfully. I realise that there are farmers who like to be on their farms in the summer months working and getting the last ounce out of the daylight before they go to vote between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. I would suggest that, even if polling hours were extended beyond 8 o'clock at night, there would be some electors who would roll up at the last minute,  f  n my judgment and in my experience, after talking to many people, I say with conviction that there are very, very few people who could not manage to vote between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. if those were the voting hours. 1 realise that the matter of religious beliefs comes into this proposal. But 1 do not think, from my investigations and inquiries, that there would be a great many voters whose religious beliefs would preclude them from voting by 6 p.m. on Saturday. There are some, I know. I would suggest to the Minister for his consideration that this matter be thought about also. I ask him whether or not those who have religious beliefs and fall into the category that I have just described could perhaps be catered for with postal votes. There would not be so very many involved. 
With regard to the method of voting, very much has been said and written. I know that there are critics of the present preferential system. But it seems that the only genuine criticism that can be levelled against the preferential system is that a voter quite truthfully may claim that he has no preference for any of the candidates. In fact this did happen in a case in Victoria relating to the last Federal election in October 1969. A  Mr Little,  a barrister, took the matter to court when he was summonsed for not having cast a vote. He pleaded his case on the basis of a High Court case presided over by, if I remember rightly, the late  Mr Justice  Higgins and he won his case.  His  argument was that he did not have any preference for any of the candidates. None of the candidates gave him a real choice because he did not want any of them. It appears to me that, on a legal basis anyway, only on this ground is there a valid criticism of the preferential system. In my experience, Party room ballots and ballots in most organisations with which I have been associated in my life are conducted on a preferential basis. It is true that in some instances the exhaustive ballot system is used. We use the exhaustive ballot system for the election of Party leaders, for example, in the Parliament. But generally speaking the preferential system is acceptable throughout the community and it is a system with which the people are familiar. There are people who argue that a fairer and more democratic system should be devised and perhaps some system of proportional representation could be devised for the House of Representatives. Personally I am a little sceptical. I prefer to keep what I understand and what I believe the great majority of the people of Australia understand and that is the preferential system of voting which I believe to be a fair system and the fairest that has yet been discovered. 
The first past the post system, which is advocated by honourable members opposite, is obviously unfair and undemocratic when one looks into it because minority groups in the community would virtually be disfranchised. I will give a simple illustration of the unfairness of the first past the post system which used to operate in some spheres, lt was definitely unfair and 1 feel that those who argue in favour of the first past the post system probably do not properly understand its implications. 1 give this simple illustration: if candidate A polls 40 per cent of the total votes cast and candidate B runs him a close second with 38 per cent of the total votes cast and candidate C polls 22 per cent of the total votes cast, it is obvious that candidates B and C between them have polled 60 per cent of the votes. In other words, 60 per cent of the voters want a candidate other than candidate A. Yet under the first past the post system candidate A would be elected with a small minority of 40 per cent of the votes. My argument based on this simple illustration is that if we are to have at some future time a change in the method of voting let us have a fair and democratic system and one which will truly give a proper reflection of the wishes of the people. 1 am certain that the first past the post system does not do that. 
Finally I want to make reference to a matter which I raised at question time today. I asked the Minister for the Interior a question pertaining to the siting of the High Court of Australia and the National Art Gallery. I asked the Minister whether design studies for the National Art Gallery and preliminary planning for the High Court building were proceeding. I trust that they are. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to look into the present position and if he sees fit to do so to inform the House at an early date so that we will know how these matters are progressing. I feel it is important in relation to the development of the Parliamentary Triangle that no unnecessary time be lost in arriving at a decision with regard to the High Court building and to the Art Gallery because as I understand it the development of the Parliamentary Triangle will have to be considered in relation to the design of the new parliament house which we know is probably a good many years away yet. But I do emphasise the necessity for some uniformity of approach and uniformity of design in relation to the development of the Parliamentary Triangle. 

Order! The honourable member for Riverina has already spoken in this debate. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs whether Australia's representatives at the United Nations are continuing to express our concern for the millions of people in Europe and elsewhere, who, through ruthless and oppressive Communist action, have been deprived of their basic human rights completely against the principles of the United Nations Charter. 
ls there a seconder of the amendment? 
I want to incorporate in Hansard a letter received by the former member for Lalor.  Mr M.  W. Lee, and signed by  Mr I.  D. V. Ralfe, the  Deputy  Director of Qantas flight operations. Is the Minister prepared to allow me to incorporate the whole of this letter from Qantas in Hansard? I would like the whole of the letter incorporated, because it puts the whole of the problem of Avalon airport in its true context along with the attitude of the people and, most important of all, what Qantas had to say about this matter. 
As usual the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has given the House a thoughtful and interesting contribution. I listened with interest to what he said, although there are one or two points on which I would take issue with him. For example, I doubt the validity of a comparison on the basis of the gross national product of this country with that of other countries. I am inclined to think that in this young, growing and developing country with so many demands upon our resources, the Government needs annually in drawing up its budget to give prime consideration to the total outlay that it can make in the ensuing 12 months in relation to the total amount available for expenditure. Bearing -in mind the fundamental point that governments do not have any moneys of their own - they have only the moneys that are obtained from the people by way of taxation or some other form of revenue - I doubt whether a comparison on the basis of gross national product is really a reliable one. 1 believe the honourable member had a point when he said that education in Australia had developed on a more or less ad hoc basis. Having regard to the fact that the Commonwealth has not been in the education field for many years I think we can look back with pride on a record of achievement which would, I think, be the envy of some other countries. The honourable member did not make any reference to the fact that the total estimated expenditure by the Commonwealth in the current financial year is expected to be an increase of 25 per cent on the expenditure for 1969-70. I believe that this alone indicates that we are moving forward at a considerable rate. I do not want to trespass and go outside the limits of the Bill. I would first of all like to say to the House and to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that I for one welcome the introduction of these 2 Bills. I regard them as an earnest of the Government's desire to help the cause of tertiary education in general. I also regard the Bills as a fulfilment of undertakings given by the Commonwealth to the States. I wish to quote a brief paragraph from the speech made by the Minister for Education and Science when he presented to this House on 19th August of this year a ministerial statement on the Commonwealth education programme for 1970-71. Under the heading: 'Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education', which are the 2 heads under which these Bills appear, the Minister said: 
The proposed Commonwealth expenditure during the financial year on universities am/ colleges of advanced education reflects its support for the continued expansion of tertiary education facilities. Grants to colleges of advanced education are expected to total almost $40m, which is more than 75 per cent above the figure for 1969-1970, while those to universities will total approximately $11 Om, as compared with just under 594m during the past financial year. With respect to the colleges, a significant development for which funds will be provided in the current financial year is the provision of residential accommodation at institutions in country areas. 
Moving back to (he Bill, we find that, in the Schedules, the increases State by State in respect of all the various tertiary institu tions are set out clearly. I feel that the Government is fulfilling its promise. It is moving forward steadily, surely and carefully in the wide field of education. I think that this is a field in which the Government is wise to hasten reasonably slowly. Certainly there is much yet to be done and I know that there is no-one more aware of this fact than the Minister himself. After all, Rome was not built in a day. As I said earlier, I believe that we have made good progress in the period that the Commonwealth has been assisting actively in an increasingly big way in the overall field of education. 
In his second reading speech on the State Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) 1970, the Minister explained that the additional Commonwealth contribution is in accordance with the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Eggleston and is designed to meet the new levels of academic salaries in universities and also salary increases in relation to certain university officers in medical schools. The Bills, as I commented earlier, are relatively narrow in scope. Therefore, I do not wish to go outside that scope and to try to cover the wide field of education in the course of my remarks because I know that there are other speakers who wish to take part in this debate and that we have still a heavy legislative programme ahead of us. 
I am sure that the additional Commonwealth assistance that is being provided by these 2 Bills will be appreciated by the governing bodies of the institutions concerned. They are, as the Minister has said in his statement, responsible for determining the actual levels of remuneration of their own staff. While it is true that these levels may vary - and no doubt do vary from university to university - there is, I suggest, a common factor that has to be borne in mind. That is the need to attract and to retain sufficient high quality staff. This can be done only if pay and conditions are adequate. This is one of the main points that the Government has had in mind in the preparation and submission of these 2 Bills. 
I hope that, before long, assistance will be given with regard to the greatest single financial problem of all. That is the steep increases in non-academic salaries and wages for which no help at all is provided at the present time. There is, I believe, a strong case for a review of the grants formula in relation to grants to the States for tertiary education. I say this with particular regard to my own State of Queensland with which I am more familiar than 1 am with any other State. The university at St Lucia, as I have said before in this chamber, is in an extremely difficult financial position. The need for a second university in Brisbane is becoming more and more urgent each year. 
Colleges of advanced education which, as we know are still evolving, will be assisted and strengthened by the adoption of the Sweeney Report and the willingness of the Commonwealth Government to assist with the establishment and maintenance of residential colleges. I have in my hand a cutting from the 'Australian' of 1st October 1970. This is an interesting article by  Mr Graham  Williams under the heading: 'College degree issue divides States'. This article deals with the very matter on which I am just touching, that is, the evolving state of the various colleges of advanced education. I am sure that we all hope very much that the Commonwealth and the States can work on the basis of a co-operative partnership in the development of these colleges as in the other fields of tertiary education. 1 believe that, by this means, we can achieve the maximum results. 
I make one final plea before I conclude. It is now 13 years since a wide ranging inquiry was held into tertiary education in Australia. I urge once again that in the interests of the universities, in the interests of colleges of advanced education and in the interests of tertiary education in general, early consideration be given to holding another full scale inquiry with a view to rectifying anomalies, streamlining and co-ordinating development and providing the nation with the best possible facilities in all fields of tertiary education. 

Order! The term used by the honourable member is unparliamentary and I ask him to withdraw it. 
The Prime Minister has openly and irrevocably pronounced his bias towards big business and his passion for the profiteer. He cannot and will not change his course.  His  is a total commitment to big business and to foreign investors. He is dedicated to the destruction of organised labour in all its forms except where it is willing to become his obsequious partner in a drive for bigger profits, causing lower real wages and an exacerbation of labour relations. Industrial unrest must follow such a policy. The Australian Council of Trade Unions and the employers of Australia now seem destined to a life and death struggle simply to satisfy the Prime Minister's almost pathological disdain for organised labour He sees nothing wrong with organised doctors, organised money lenders, organised shipping companies, organised merchants, organised retailers, organised mining speculators or the widespread restriction on trade in all fields of industry and commerce. But when wage and salary earners are forced to organise to protect themselves from the undue exploitation created by other organised groups they become guilty of a foul Communist plot, according to the Prime Minister, and they must be stamped out with the full rigour of whatever repressive laws become necessary fo- their destruction. 
He is, in a sentence, saturated with the prejudices of the very wealthy whom he has always represented inside and outside the Parliament. The Prime Minister made this perfectly clear when he gave the all powerful National Employers Policy Committee a firm promise to place a bridle on the wage fixing powers of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to collect the $38,000 outstanding in fines imposed under a repressive law that became so discredited that even the Gorton Government felt impelled to move for its repeal. A law is not a good law unless it has a reasonable chance of being observed. If that test is applied to the penal provisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act it must stand condemned to failure. To press for the payment of fines imposed under a law which no longer exists is to deliberately provoke a costly and perhaps catastrophic confrontation between employers and organised labour. To say, for example, that wage increases must be tied to increases in productivity is to assume that labour is now getting its fair share of the gross national product. Labour is not getting its fair share. Even if one takes, the average weekly earnings, including, as they do, the highly paid executives, the judges, the professional employees and senior public servants, one sees that the total value of the percentage increase in productivity is infinitely higher than the total value of the percentage increase in the average weekly earnings. I will return to this question later. 
All that increased productivity does is to increase the amount of goods available for distribution. It does not follow that those who produce the goods will receive a fair share of the extra goods produced or even any share of the extra goods produced. Even if the case for productivity-wage relativity is to be accepted as the proper basis for wage fixation, the Government has done nothing whatever to produce a comprehensive and reliable index for measuring productivity in Australia. I asked in this place for this to be done in 1954 but nothing has been done about it. 
I turn now to the question of whether wage and salary earners are in fact receiving a fair share of the gross national product. I submit that they are not. I further submit that this is the real cause of industrial unrest m Australia and that until we get to the cause of the industrial unrest we cannot prescribe a cure. During the last 5 years the gross national product, measured in money terms, rose by $9,376m. During the same period the total amount paid in wages, salaries and supplements went up by only $4,965m. That was in spite of the fact that the number of employees in the Australian work force during that time increased by 619,000. For the year 1968- 69 the increase in the gross national product was $2,980m over the previous year, compared with an increase of only $ 1.362m in wages. The wage and salary earners received less than half of the increase in the gross national product for the year 1968-69. It is obvious from figures such as these that owners of capital are getting by far the biggest share of the ever expanding national cake. The overall distribution of our gross national product shows that out of a gross national product of S30,153m in 1969-70 the owners of capital received almost as much as the 4,422.000 wage and salary earners put together. 
The average weekly wage for the December quarter has just been announced as having risen to $84.80 per week. How ever, 2 things need to be said about this figure. Firstly, December is always the highest quarter in terms of the average weekly wage because it includes payments made prospectively for accrued annual leave. Secondly, the system of collating the average weekly earnings gives a distorted picture of the position of the average wage of the ordinary wage or salary earner, 69 per cent of whom get less than the average weekly wage. I repeat that 69 per cent of the ordinary wage and salary earners get less than the announced average weekly wage. The average weekly wage statistics are reached only after including highly paid company executives, members of Parliament, company managers, top public servants, judges and even the Prime Minister and the State Premiers. A public servant on $450 a week, a judge on $540 a week or a Prime Minister on $850 a week and salaries of as much as S 1,000 a week for managing directors of big companies make a mockery of the average weekly wage statistics as a true index or a true measure of the economic position in which the average wage or salary earner now finds himself. 
This country has never seen such an enormous growth of wealth in the hands of so few as has occurred during the past 15 years. The change of Prime Ministers has not changed that. The trend will continue but at an even greater rate as far as the ordinary wage and salary earner is concerned. Whilst the Prime Minister defends the right of private enterprise, under the influence of what we are pleased to call healthy competition, to prise from the community every cent that the market will yield, he trenchantly condemns the seeking or granting of over award payments which represent nothing more than the competitive market value of particular classifications of labour. In a full employment economy, and with uncontrolled profits and prices, wage stability is impossible to achieve. The Government must either control profits and prices so that wage stability is made possible or achieve wage stability by the use of credit restricttions to increase the level of unemployment. But since credit restrictions and rising unemployment cause loss of electoral support, as witnessed in the 1961 general elections, a Government which is tied to big business, as this Government is, cannot escape its dilemma by prices control and must either let inflation run riot, as is now the case, or face certain defeat at the hands of an apprehensive work force and the business community whose prosperity rests upon a fully employed work force. 
Trade unionists will always accept a decision if it is fair because a fair decision is always acceptable to fair people and the trade union movement represents the fairest section of the community. It must be easily satisfied or it would not allow those with capital to take such a disproportionate share of the national cake as it has allowed them to take over the last 15 years. The Prime Minister's public attack on the Commission's last national wage decision will make it impossible for the Commission to give a smaller amount in the next case without being accused of giving way to Government pressure. This kind of behaviour on the part of the Prime Minister is doing more than any militant union official has ever done to discredit the Arbitration Commission. The Prime Minister's suggestion that the Act should be altered in such a way as to force the Commission to make its decisions according to Government dictated criteria sounds rather odd when one looks at the 'Bulletin' of 10th August 1963 and reads this statement which is credited to the Prime Minister: 
The Government as a government should not be loo intrusive: politics ought to be kept out. If possible problems ought to be settled by the unions and the employers and the Arbitration Commission. 
But the Arbitration Commission's authority and very existence rests upon the constitutional requirement that it must conciliate and arbitrate to prevent and to settle industrial disputes. Where increased prices sap the value of money wages, or where the law of supply and demand increases the market value of labour, an arbitration system which refused wage increases would be courting the very result which the Constitution requires it to prevent. Wage increases are not the cause of inflation. They are merely the symptom of an inflationary spiral that is caused by excess profits, high interest charges, excessive tariff protection in some industries well able to function with much less protection than they are now getting, and consumer spending caused by migration and the affluence of those who have profited from the Government's taxation policy and the Government's policy of giving its wealthy friends an open go. The defeat of John Grey Gorton has proved beyond all doubt that there can never be any room in the Liberal Party for a Prime Minister who will dare to defy the establishment or who will place his country ahead of the vested interests of rich profiteers and foreign speculators. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Duthie)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Hindmarsh be granted an extension of time. 
Opposition members - Aye. 
Government members - No. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Government considered the advantages of establishing an Australian trade ship similar to the floating fair ships used by Japan as travelling exhibitions to expand her trade? 

Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have been misrepresented just slightly. 
Order! Is leave granted? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Navy. First, how many patrol boats are at present in service? Secondly, having regard to the length of Australia's coastline and the extent of the waters to be protected, is the Government planning to build additional patrol boats? Thirdly, will the Minister keep the House informed of progress in this direction? 

Order! Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! I call the honourable member for Sturt on a point of order. 
I repeat that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made no concrete proposal and gave no undertaking on behalf of the Opposition as to what it would do to increase the various rates of compensation payable if it were in power. He implied that if the Opposition became the government it would increase the total and permanent incapacity pension, the war widow's pension, lie general rate pension and so on. This implication, in conjunction with earlier statements by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that Labor would support the compensation plan, cannot be viewed in isolation. The expenditure of extra money is involved. The RSL plan would cost SI 05m over and above the $330m-odd that the Repatriation Department will spend in the current financial year. A fair assessment of the proposals implied by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - he did not put any definite proposals - is that the taxpayers would have to find an extra $105m a year for repatriation purposes. Add this to the cost of all the promises made on behalf of the Opposition in the last 12 months by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the total additional expenditure is about $ 1,000m. Would the Australian public, particularly members of the Returned Services League, be justified in believing that the ALP, if it became the government, would meet the requests contained in the 1971 RSL war compensation plan? I do not believe they would be justified in believing that. 
It is true that the ex-servicemen's committee of Cabinet met the RSL national executive this week. The meeting lasted for 90 minutes or more. During that time we had a very useful exchange of thoughts. We received the RSL's proposal, lt is similar to the 1970 plan. It lays strong emphasis on the desirability of an independent non-parliamentary inquiry into the overall repatriation system and also on the raising of the special rate or TPI payment to equal the minimum wage. The Returned Services League represents a vast group of ex-service personnel. It can rest assured that serious and deep consideration will be given to its proposals. This is not to say that the Government will adopt the proposals. They involve a large increase in expenditure over and above the $337m that will be expended. These matters will be considered at the appropriate time, when the next Budget is being framed. 
Honourable members will know that a review of the repatriation system is being undertaken by the Repatriation Department. Admittedly there is criticism that because this inquiry is being undertaken by the department responsible for the administration of the Act, it will not be in sufficient depth. On this point 1 want to assure the people of Australia and this House that I have not interfered with theDepartment at all in this matter. The Department has complete freedom to investigate and in the thoughts it can put forward. 1 want to assure everyone that i have complete confidence in the impartiality and integrity of the Department and in the thoroughness with which the Department will carry out this review, lt could be put forward that the most satisfactory way of undertaking a review of the repatriation system may be by way of an independent inquiry which would investigate this matter in depth. A similar inquiry was undertaken in Canada about 4 or 5 years ago. I noticed that some members of the Canadian Parliament were in the House earlier today and it is quite a coincidence that I should make reference to Canada now. This inquiry took  2  years to complete and subsequently quite a lot of the recommendations were adopted. 
The speech made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was almost a repeat performance of the speech he made on repatriation during the last Budget session and previous Budget sessions. However, if we look critically at his speeches we find that they are destructive rather than constructive, lt is very easy to be critical rather than to propose a reasoned and practical approach, particularly to a problem as complex as the repatriation system, lt is always easy for the Opposition to criticise the Government's latest pension increases as not being enough. Of course, most people in Australia, including myself r.nd members of the Government, would like to see all of the clients of the Repatriation Department paid more. But the facts of life are that a balance has to be struck between the many competing demands on the Government. Irrespective of what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said, I am speaking in the House today not with a sense of shame but with some considerable pride about what the Government has done over its period of office. I do not, of course, claim the personal credit for this. It is a matter of what the Government has done. The record stands by itself and most people who are closely associated with repatriation know of these achievements. 
I do not think it can be denied - and the honourable member for Mitchell (Mt Irwin) also made this point - that the system is basically a very generous one. The Australian repatriation system is recognised throughout the world as being one of the top systems in the world. No-one will deny that our generous system is administered in a generous way to ensure that the tulles! justice is done to everyone and to ensure that the rights of ex-servicemen are protected. If ex-servicemen have any grievance or dissatisfaction with decisions there are avenues for them to be heard and for their case to be tested to the fullest extent. For instance, there are a number of independent determining authorities. There are the repatriation boards, the independent entitlements appeal tribunals and the independent assessment appeal tribunals. II is worth reminding the House that each of these boards and tribunals has a representative of ex-service organisations on it to ensure that the practical and experienced point of view is expressed in the councils which consider claims and appeals. In addition, every member of every determining authority is a returned serviceman. 
The medical system of the Repatriation Department, with its general and auxiliary hospitals, mental institutions, limb and appliance centres and outpatient clinics, forms one of the biggest if not the biggest medical chains in the whole of Australia. These facilities are regarded with a great deal of affection by the tens of thousands of patients who are treated each year. From year to year pensions go up and from year to year treatment becomes more extensive, complex, expensive and expert. The House will be interested to note that even though we have had, as have all countries, inflation over the years, in 1950- 51 the Government approved of the expenditure of $76m on repatriation whereas this year it will be spending just over $3 30m. Is it the act of a mean and parsimonious government to increase expenditure on repatriation from $76m in 1950-51 to over $330m this year? 
I would like very briefly to remind the House of some of the other matters which the Government has achieved in the field of repatriation. I do not want to weary the House or to speak at length, but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went back to 1949 in his speech to the House and therefore 1 think it is appropriate that I should go back to 1949 to draw to the attention of the House some factors which I think are important. In 1949 the TPI pension was $10.60 a week; it is now $39 a week. Apart from that, more additional benefits are now available to the TPI pensioner than were available in 1949. A special compensation allowance of $6 a week has been introduced since 1949. I am sure that everyone would have great sympathy for the war widows. I certainly have. In 1949 war widows were receiving a pension of $6 a week. Most of the war widows - 47,000 out of 49,000 of them - are now receiving $24 a week, which represents an increase of 400 per cent. In view of the time factor 1 shall not give any more examples. I should point out, though, that it seems to be the fate of repatriation legislation to be always running against time in the closing hours of the sitting of the Parliament. 
My final comment is that the Government can look at its overall performance in the field of repatriation with a certain amount of pride, but it must not be so unrealistic as to believe that it has by any means achieved perfection. For that reason, the Repatriation Commission is examining the repatriation system, lt is important that the Government and the taxpayers should continue to appreciate that the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen who served the country so well in time of danger and threat to our existence are entitled to retain a special place in the community. 1 refer in particular to those people who have, been seriously disabled and handicapped by war service and to the war widows. Because of the 26-year period since the last major involvement of Australia in war - that is, in a numerical sense - and because of our relative security at the moment there- is a, perhaps understandable, tendency for people to attach less importance than they have previously to the debt we undoubtedly owe to the members of our fighting forces - men and women, past and present. 
In conclusion. I assure honourable members that there is no air of complacency in the Department or any attitude of selfadmiration for the excellent performance of the Government and the Department over the years. We are continuing to look for ways and means of improving the situation. It must be conceded that this Bill with its increases in rates for the totally and permanently incapacitated, war widows and some other categories, is evidence that even between budgets we are looking to make changes for the betterment of the lot of ex-servicemen and women who have disabilities because they served their country in war. 
Question put 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the motion seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that shipments of goods underthe Colombo Plan to countries in south Asia and South East Asia are labelled only in English? If this is the case, will the Minister consider having these shipments labelled also in the language of the recipient country to facilitate handling and delivery? 
Firstly I should like to join with the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in expressing congratulations to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on his very thoughtful and constructive maiden speech which we heard prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner. At the same time may I take the opportunity of wishing him many fruitful years of service as a member of this Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  endeavoured during his speech to play down the importance of this legislation.  His  remarks concerning its introduction by a different AttorneyGeneral under a different Prime Minister do not alter the fact that it is a Government measure, introduced certainly by the previous Government, but supported equally strongly by the present Government. He spoke at some length concerning the protection of diplomatic and consular premises and personnel.  His  argument, in essence, was that the existing laws are adequate for this purpose. With all due respect to the honourable member, I must say that I prefer to accept the legal views of the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and the former Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  who introduced this Bill. 
I believe that, contrary to the prediction of the Leader of the Opposition, the provisions of this legislation will probably be applied if occasion demands. It will be better still, of course, if no such occasion does arise. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, speaking as a lawyer practising in this city, criticised certain aspects of the Bill and expressed the view that there was too much uncertainty of interpretation. He gave some examples. All I can say is that if the Opposition feels strongly enough that the Bill should be clarified or strengthened in any way then no doubt it will indicate this in due course in more specific terms. I would like to congratulate the Government on this major effort to bring the aw up to date and to improve and clarify the law relating to assemblies of persons in places where the Commonwealth has legal responsibility. 
As we all know, there is today in the world much discord. There is much dissent. There is much rebelliousness, especially among the younger generation. No doubt this stems in some cases from idealism, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory maintained. In some cases, unfortunately, they are incited by other people, some of whom should know better. In some cases this incitement leads to violence. This is to be deplored. In a democracy there is a rather fine balance always to be drawn between public order on the one hand and the personal rights of citizens on the other. I suppose there will always be conflicting interests of one kind or another. T hope there will always think we all agree that this right is essential be the right of dissent by- the minority. I and of fundamental importance in a democratic country. But I submit that it is also of fundamental importance that this right of dissent be expressed or exercised in such a way as not to interfere with the legal rights of other citizens. Here we come pretty much lo the kernel of the Bill. 1 believe that the vast majority of Australians are peaceful, law abiding people who have regard for the rights of others. To strike a balance between the various divergent interests in the community is no easy task for anyone. From time to time we hear the term 'civil liberties'. I think that it is sometimes used a little too loosely by some people without proper thought as to just what is involved. I submit that the use of the term 'civil liberties' also connotes civil rights on the part of other persons. As I said before, those people, particularly among the younger generation, who use the term sometimes for incitement and who demonstrate for what they call 'civil liberties' are overlooking the fact that due consideration must always be given to civil duties and obligations as well as to civil rights. Standards, values and outlook change not only from generation to generation but from decade to decade and even from year to year in any country. Change is part of progress. 
Let us hope that in Australia the concept of the rule of law will always remain basic to our way of life, because the alternative is the law of the jungle. Reference was made by the previous Attorney-General in his very fine second reading speech to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I hope that as some little time has elapsed since he made that speech he will not mind if I quote the particular passage, because it seems lo me to express extremely well in essence what this Bill is trying to do. He said:   . . in the exercise of his rights everyone shall bc subject to such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing recognition nf the rights of others and of meeting the requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society. 
The Bill very properly makes it a summary offence to injure any person or to damage property while taking part in an assembly, or to behave in such a way as to give rise to a reasonable apprehension of injury or damage. I believe that the proposed penalty of up to 5 years goal for injury to any person during an assembly and a penalty of up to 3 years gaol for more than S200 worth of damage to property are completely just and reasonable. Likewise, a proposed fine of up to S500, or 6 months gaol or both for failing to disperse an assembly within 15 minutes of an order from a senior police officer are completely just and reasonable. In recent times there have been instances of demonstrations involving unreasonable obstruction and therefore an interference with the rights of other people, if this Bill is passed, as I believe it will be, such obstruction infringing the lawful rights of others will be treated as a summary offence, punishable by' a fine of $250, 3 months gaol, or both. Trespassing on Commonwealth property or on private property and refusing to leave a building after being requested to do so will become criminal offences with penalties of up to $250, 3 months gaol, or both. 
Much has been said by Opposition speakers in this debate in relation to Part HI of the Bill. Australia's good name must be safeguarded in our international relations. We must protect the. official representatives of other countries. We must also protect their property, just as we. expect Australian diplomatic personnel and Australian property overseas to be protected against any damage or violence. ..Part .III of the Bill deals with this and makes suitable provision along these lines. The . Bill should be an effective counter to the increased threat to law and order and the safety of persons and property. We in this country need to have not only observance of the law but also respect for the law. I hope that this can be inculcated to a greater extent specially among some of the younger people of today. There is little doubt that in Australia, as in other democratic . countries, some of these threats to law and order and safety are the work of subversive elements who are adept at using democratic processes for their own ends. 
There is no recognition of the right of dissent in totalitarian countries. Although the right of dissent is one of the features that distinguishes democratic countries such as Australia from oppressive dictatorships, there are some people in the community who abuse this democratic right. There are some who defy lawfully constituted authority and who appear to be bent on substituting for it an authority established by violence. This is deplorable. I was very impressed by a thoughtful leading article that appeared in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail'  an  2Sth August 1970. I would like to quote 2 or 3 paragraphs, lt states: 
There is always a danger that safeguards imposed to curb excesses can go loo far, and interfere with the reasonable rights of citizens. But this is no reason why the community should sit by and accept the violent contempt of the law which is increasingly threatening public and private properly and citizens' rights. 
Unfortunately it is not only the violent lawbreakers who are to blame. There are too many people - often prominent people in a position to influence others - who incite, or at least condone civil violence and disobedience. 
There is no excuse for this in a community in which changes of the law can be brought about by peaceful processes through the channels of democratic government. Even if the processes are slow, or imperfect, they exist as part of the necessary order of a democracy. 
I believe there is on every one of us in a public position in particular a responsibility to set an example. I deplore certain incidents amounting to an incitement to defy the law. 1 do not wish to particularise because 1 do not wish to be controversial. This Bill is a very important one, and I believe it should be dealt with impersonally and objectively. But I say again that I believe it is most reprehensible for any member of Parliament or anyone in a position of authority to influence younger people in particular to break the law when there are, as the article 1 just quoted states, democratic processes for obtaining this objective. I am certain that the vast majority of Australian citizens support the preservation of law and order and that this Bill will be generally welcomed throughout the country. 

Order! I have pointed out several times that interjections are out of order and I ask honourable members to comply with my request not to interject. 
Service Act. I think it is worth recording something of what happened. The 'Freedom Ride' was organised by the Association Against the National Service Act as part of its campaign for this young man's release. Four policemen at the Centre gate at the prison farm directed traffic and a warder showed banner-carrying demonstrators to the lawns just inside. At that point this young man was released from whatever he should have been doing and was permitted to address this gathering. It is interesting to note that there were other speakers at the gathering, including  Senator Cavanagh,  that very well known right winger from South Australia and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I do not question the right of the honourable member for Wills to take part in this sort of demonstration. But I do question the right of the authorities to allow this man out of what amounts to prison lo address a demonstration. I just wonder what would happen if someone convicted under the Crimes Act or some other Federal law wished to address a demonstration out at Yatala Prison, for example. Would the South Australian Government, under its present Premier-:- 

Order! The honourable member for Batman will resume his seat. There is no substance in the point of order. 
Let us go through some of the events that have occurred. On 25th March 1971 there appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' the headline: 'Angry brawl erupts in Federal offices'. This article stated: 
Police and anti-war demonstrators fought a wild brawl inside the Federal parliamentary party offices in Melbourne late yesterday. 
Police drew their batons as punches and kicks were exchanged in the foyer and offices of the Flinders Street building.  1 happened to be there at that time. I saw the mob that came pouring through the door. Some poor innocent woman in the lobby of the offices downstairs was terrified and endeavoured to hide behind the counter. Women secretaries were running around and being told to lock their doors because these hoodlums were abou* to break in. If this is the sort of thing that the Labor Party wishes to support, it is not what I support and I am sure it is not what the people of Australia support. 
Let us look at more of these occurrences. On 11th April 1969 more than 180 arrests were made during violent antiVietnam demonstrations in Sydney and Adelaide. On the same day students of the Monash University occupied the Oakleigh Commonwealth Employment Service office. On 1st May 1969 there was another incident. On 5th May 1969 hundreds of students stormed the Monash administration building. On 12th June 1969 students occupied the Senate room at the University of Queensland. There were other incidents on 24th June 1969, 4th July 1969, 12th July 1969, and so it goes on. lt is a repeat performance of people coming into buildings, taking over offices, opening files, distributing documents and terrifying civil servants working in these offices. And the Opposition says that nothing should be done. 
Another demonstration was against the national service registration office in Adelaide in September 1969. On this occasion some 6 masked men entered the office during lunch time. One carried a tomahawk and the others wire cutters. They cut and wrenched out telephone wires, pulled out records drawers and then proceeded to pour animal blood, a container of which they had, on the records, the furniture and the floor. Is this the type of thing that the Opposition supports? Have we heard in any of the speeches made by members of the Opposition the word 'responsibility'? Would any young person listening to this debate tonight think that in this Utopia there was a law he had to observe if he did not want to? Have we not heard the Leader of the Opposition encourage the troops of this country to break the law? Have we not seen the honourable member for Lalor, one of the shadow Ministers of the Opposition, encouraging people to break the law? 
All I can say is that no democracy will continue as long as people in responsible positions, such as members of Parliament, blatantly encourage people to break the law. This is a democracry. This is a country in which we have freedom. I atn quite sure that those members of the Labor Party to whom I referred earlier realise this. There is a way to alter the law. Members of the Opposition and the people they represent have the right to endeavour to alter the law, yet they do not want to do it the legitimate way. They want to use anarchy. They want to use those people who cling to the banner of their Party and whose ultimate aim is revolution. I do not think they are aware of what they are doing. 
Quite frankly, the end result must be contempt for the law when people such as members of Parliament go out blatantly and not only encourage the young to break the law but endeavour to show the example themselves. The fact that it is a hollow gesture does not have very much importance because the young do not know that there is a small technicality in the law under which they cannot be prosecuted. There is the burning of draft cards. The fact that we do not have draft cards is not known to most people in the community. But we have the honourable member for Lalor - that gallant warrior - carrying on as he does and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  taking the great course of seeking to be imprisoned and inspiring the youth of this country by refusing to obey the law and to pay the fine which was imposed on him not by a parliament but by a court of law in this country. Then the question of privilege is raised because he is a member of Parliament. As far as 1 am concerned, from the day that members of 
Parliament in this country are given exemption from the laws of this land we will have a very brief future. 
I think this Bill has been introduced so that there will be a uniform law throughout the States. It has been introduced so that the embassy and consular officials and representatives of overseas countries will be given protection against demonstrations of the type that have been encouraged by some members of the Opposition and members of the Communist Party, representatives of the anarchists and other groups who wish to bring about a state of anarchy in this country. Indeed, I think that many members of the Labor Party and union representatives are concerned at the direction in which this country is going at the present time in regard to the representation, attitudes and actions of the Opposition. There is no doubt in my mind that we should be able to demonstrate, but there is a way of demonstrating which is correct and legitimate. There is a way of demonstrating which is wrong and which is resorted to by only a small section of the community with the ultimate aim of engaging in riots - the fun picnic of sticking pins into a policeman's horse, the fun picnic of throwing marbles under horse's hooves and throwing rocks at embassies, whether it be the embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or the United States of America. Demonstrations can be peaceful, but if one reads the records one finds that frequently they are not. The people who wish to use them for their own purposes should be prosecuted. This Bill is designed to introduce uniform law and give protection to the embassies of foreign powers. 
If members of the Opposition feel as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  claims, that they have to toot car horns outside the South African Embassy and if the honourable member thinks that this brings dignity to the Parliament, to members of Parliament and to the Labor Party, there is nothing in this proposed Act that I know of which will stop him from doing so - that is, if he is mad enough and has the time and inclination to sit outside the embassy tooting his horn all day. That is something that the Labor Party and his electors may have to put up with. As far as I am concerned and, I am sure, as far as the people of this country are concerned, we welcome this legislation, not as repressive legislation but as a clarification of a position. It allows people who wish to break the law to understand exactly what is front of them so that they cannot claim that they acted in confusion and cannot claim rights which existed under the old law - not because they were entitled to such rights but because of the inadequacy of the legislation. I support the Bill. 
1 have much pleasure in supporting the remarks made earlier this afternoon by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  I can say from my personal experience,  Mr Speaker,  that your standing both in this country and overseas is very high as a  Speaker  of a Parliament - an institution which, as the Leader of the House said, has been evolving over a long period of time, 700 years or more. You have the esteem of Speakers in the State Parliaments of Australia. You have the esteem of the  Speaker  at Westminster, the  Speaker  at Ottawa and your counterpart in the United States, to say nothing of Speakers in other countries in which I have also heard your name spoken. 
The Leader of the House mentioned your approachability. He said that he considered you to be completely impartial and tolerant. I support what he said. There is nobody who can be completely right all the time. But as far as anyone could possibly be correct in the interpretation and the application of the Standing Orders, which is not always easy to do on the spur of the moment, I say that you have applied Standing Orders impartially and with tolerance and have allowed a good deal of latitude, perhaps far more latitude than many other Speakers in other countries and indeed many Speakers in the State Parliaments of Australia would have allowed in the same circumstances. 
The Leader of the House contrasted your record as the  Speaker  of this House of Representatives with that of Labor Speakers in times gone by. Like the Leader of the House, I do not wish to engage in any personalities, especially as those people are no longer here. All I can say is that I was one of the ordinary citizens of this country who used to listen to the broadcasts of the proceedings of Parliament in the 1940s. One of the things that used to incite me to a feeling of great indignation was the way in which supporters of the Liberal and Country Parties, who were then in Opposition, were treated by occupants of the Chair in those days when the Australian Labor Party was in power. 
I agree with what the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  said regarding the latitude you allow and the exercise of restraint which you have shown since you first held office in 1967. I do not think it is too much to sum up your qualities as  Speaker  as being just, considerate, able, tolerant and patient. These human qualities are very hard to find in any one man. I do not suppose there is any one man who possesses all the most desirable human qualities, and I think some of the things that have been said about you today have been untrue, unfair and unjust. 
In opening this debate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spoke of the happy atmosphere which existed in this House under your Speakership during the period 1966 to 1969. If I remember rightly he spoke of your fairness in the first 3 years of your Speakership. This is very strange because someone must be speaking with tongue in cheek. I remember distinctly after the 1969 House of Representatives elections that during a debate on the election of  Speaker  of this new Parliament at least two honourable members on the opposite side of the House spoke. I remember that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was critical of you in relation to your Speakership during the period 1966 to 1969. I remember also that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke quite bitterly and criticised you. If I remember his words correctly, he said that you were cruel and unjust. How does that square with the remarks made this afternoon by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition? 
I believe that these charges have been trumped up. I think that the motion of no confidence was made up on the spur of the moment yesterday because some honourable members opposite were annoyed that one of their members was named by you for disobedience to the Chair and committing a breach of Standing Orders. I do not want to repeat what has already been quoted from yesterday's Hansard. However it is quite clear from the record that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  for whom we all have a personal regard - but that is beside the point - did in fact twice interject after you had given him a warning to contain himself. This again does not square with what was said earlier this afternoon by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
It is no doubt true that there has been provocation. There has been provocation no doubt from both sides of the House from time to time during the course of speeches, during question time and on other occasions. Of course, this is part of politics. There is provocation. When provocative remarks are made or provocative questions are asked, feelings tend to be roused. It is very natural for people sometimes to say things that they do not really mean and would not say if they were in a calmer frame of mind. However, I believe that you have presided over this kind of situation with remarkable dignity, tolerance, restraint and understanding. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claimed, as did one or two other honourable members opposite, that you have been arbitrary and unjust towards the Opposition. I think the words used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were that you were capricious and partisan towards honourable members of fong standing and service on his side of the House. That is how I wrote down what he said. I hope I am not quoting him incorrectly. First of all, I do not agree with his statement that you have been capricious and partisan to those long standing members of Parliament, but I want to make the point that there is an obligation on the long standing members of this Parliament to set an example to other members who have not been here for such a long period of years. Unfortunately, we do not see very much of this. Other honourable members and I have noticed a tendency during the course of the present Parliament, since the 1969 Federal election, for some honourable members to be provocative, to defy the Chair, to make too many interjections and to refrain from restraining themselves even when requested time after time to do so by the Chair. 
The honourable member for Dawson made some remark about long answers to questions being against the Standing Orders. I would be interested to hear from the honourable member which standing order provides that there shall not be long answers to questions. I suggest that he have a look at the Standing Orders dealing with questions without notice. He will find nothing there in relation to the length of answers. You,  Mr Speaker,  have been criticised for allowing long answers to questions. Certain honourable members opposite have said this afternoon that you should have pulled up Ministers and prevented them from making long statements. Time after time we have all heard you do this very thing. We have all heard you ask Ministers to make shorter statements and ask honourable members to submit shorter questions. If criticism is coming from the Opposition in relation to answers to questions then, in all fairness, I think that honourable members opposite, if they are calm and objective about it, must accept that honourable members on both sides of the House ask questions which are sometimes far too long and involved, to which a Minister could not normally be expected to have answers and carry a lot of detail in his head. Nobody is perfect. Probably the Standing Orders are not perfect either. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that you do a remarkably good job in relation to the application of the Standing Orders. There has been a very regrettable tendency in this Parliament which I, as a member who has been here for quite a long time, have not noticed to such a degree before, of defying authority, defying the Chair and even refusing to comply with a decision of the House. I do not want to be personal. I do not want to point to individual members. I am talking about a principle. I am disturbed, and I know that other honourable members on both sides of the House are disturbed, by an apparent and obvious growing tendency towards defying the authority of the Chair of this Parliament regardless of who may be sitting in the Chair. There is a tendency to take unnecessary points of order, which I believe could be construed as obstructing the business of the House. Honourable members are elected by constituents to come to this place, presumably to behave themselves as grown up human beings with a sense of responsibility. 
There have been occasions which should be better forgotten rather than brought up this afternoon. I mention in a general way that there has been a falling off of respect for the Chair in the present Parliament and a tendency for honourable members to refrain from bowing to the Chair when they come in and go out of the chamber. There is a tendency for some honourable members to walk past the end of the table and omit to bow to the Chair. There is a standing order which requires honourable members to do so. I am not saying that this is deliberate, but there is a growing and noticeable tendency towards disrespect for the Chair. Parliament can function properly only if honourable members comply with the Standing Orders and endeavour to do their best to co-operate with the Chair. Whoever is the occupant of the Chair, he has a fairly difficult role to play, lt is a highly responsible role. It is by no means an easy one. It is a role which needs and demands the co-operation, understanding and assistance of honourable members on both sides of the House if Parliament is to do its job effectively for the nation. 
Much has been said about question time. I do not want to go back over that. I feel and I fear that among the newer members of Parliament there are just a few who do not regard this institution with a sufficient degree of respect. Perhaps they have not yet got around to studying the Standing Orders. Perhaps they have not talked to some of the more senior members of the Parliament about times gone by and perhaps they have not yet absorbed sufficient of the atmosphere and tradition of Parliament. This does not apply to the vast majority of honourable members. The vast majority of members of this Parliament are men of good, sound commonsense. They are men of responsibility regardless of Party affiliations. 1 am not speaking in terms of Parties at all this afternoon. I am speaking in terms of Parliament and respect for the Chair which represents the authority vested in the Parliament through the Crown. 
It is not true to say of the great majority that there is a growing lack of respect but it is true, I fear, that there is a falling off of respect for the Parliament and for the Chair. I hope that this will not be noticeable from now on. I hope that honourable members, having been through this exercise this afternoon, will go out of their way to meet you,  Mr Speaker,  as the Presiding Officer of this Parliament, in an atmosphere of greater understanding, tolerance and respect, and with a greater desire for this Parliament to work in the way that it should work. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the question be put. 
If it is necessary for a long answer to be given, the proper procedure is for the Minister to indicate that at the end of question time he will seek leave to make a statement. 
This has been suggested by  Mr Speaker  on several occasions. 
 I wish to make a personal explanation. I had written down in a hurry what I thought the honourable member had said. If I was incorrect, I apologise and I withdraw any reflection on the honourable member. 

Order! There is no point of order. 
I ask the Treasurer whether the Government has considered making an overall review of our whole taxation structure for the purpose of simplifying present taxation law, removing anomalies, improving methods of assessment and streamlining administration, particularly as many years have elapsed since the last complete review took place. 

Order! Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The question now is- 

Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The original question- 

Order! I ask the honourable member to put his motion in writing. (The honourable member for Forrest having submitted his motion in writing.) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER-Order! Is the motion seconded? 
The question now is: 
That the report be adopted and the Bill be read a third time. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to standing order 92 - 'Limitation of Debate (Guillotine)'. The point of order is not upheld. I rule that the correct procedure has been followed. 
I present the re  port, together with the minutes of proceedings, from the Privileges Committee that looked at the matter referred to it by the House on 20th April 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 192S, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
ls the amendment seconded? 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, refers to a question addressed recently to him concerning payments to Prime Ministers or other serving Ministers of the Crown for writing newspaper articles. I ask the Prime Minister whether such payments are in order. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member address his remarks to the Chair. 
The person who by any test of democratic elections should hold the post of Prime Minister of Pakistan is being tried and if he is executed it will be extremely difficult for the Government of India to withstand the pressures for an invasion of East Pakistan. These pressures are great. Despite the fact that Pakistan is a member of SEATO it is known that she has undertakings from China for support in any such confrontation which would make for a very difficult international situation. It would make also for a very difficult policy decision by Australia. I hope that the Australian Government will take far greater notice of the seriousness of the situation. It is a far more serious situation than that which did or still does exist in Vietnam and it could lead to the most serious position that has ever occurred in Asia in our times. I would suggest that the Australian Government start to give very serious consideration to what action it can take to relieve the situation of the Pakistani refugees and to ensure that the tensions which are developing and growing daily are eased as quickly as possible. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is  21   per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the Budget and oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  At the same time I would like to compliment the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on making a thoughtful and constructive contribution. I do not agree with everything he said, particularly in relation to housing. As he indicated, he intends to say more about this subject during the Estimates debate. I believe that the new Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has put forward to the State Ministers for Housing a very helpful and constructive formula which apparently most of them have indicated their willingness to accept. Indeed, only two of the State Ministers have indicated any reluctance. It may be that those two, when they give further consideration to the matter, will also agree. At any rate, this matter will no doubt be debated in greater detail during the course of the Estimates debate. A good deal of what the honourable member for Reid said about the environment and growing problems in relation to population growth and future trends would be matters with which we would all be in agreement. I heard a recording of a guest of honour speech given by a leading American scientist last night on this very subject. There is no doubt that the question of the preservation of our environment is a world problem. It has many angles to it and it is a vast problem. It is fortunate that major scientific brains are now endeavouring to grapple with it. It is a problem in relation to which we must all do our best to help. 
On the whole I have been disappointed with the debate that has come from honourable members opposite, because in the current state of the economy one would have hoped that Her Majesty's Opposition - the alternative government of this country - would have put forward something much more positive, constructive and acceptable to the community than it has done in relation to assisting the economy and giving it the right direction. I will have a little more to say about that matter later. 
Before I speak about the economy I would like to make a brief reference to a comment made last Thursday by my colleague the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  in the course of his comments in' this debate. I agree with him when he urges that the Government give consideration to making a decision in relation to a new and permanent Parliament House. At this stage of the economy I would not support any major outlay. I do not think any of us are of that mind. I have it on good authority that it would be 3 or 4 years after a decision is taken before the question of a major outlay of expenditure would arise. I understand that a great deal of preliminary work would be necessary. The calling for designs either on an Australia-wide basis or a world-wide basis would have to be decided. I urge the Government to make a decision at an early date in relation to this big question. If I have a chance during the Estimates debate on the Parliament I will have something further to say under this heading. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had a difficult task in framing this Budget. I do not suppose any of us really envied him his task, knowing as we do the various conflicting pressures in the community and in the economy to which he was being subjected. On the one hand there is the urgent need for action to control inflation and to tighten government expenditure. On the other hand there are many demands upon the Federal government. After all, our resources are not unlimited. For example, there are pressures for extra outlay on defence. There is pressure from the rural sector of the economy. There is pressure for increased welfare benefits, social service benefits, repatriation benefits, assistance to the family man and assistance to the States. While all of these things are admirable and they are all of great importance, the Treasurer and the Cabinet in framing the Budget have to endeavour to set priorities and have to endeavour to make a decision that is the right one in the particular context of today's economy. 
As I see it, the keynote is still growth with stability. This has been the keynote of the Government's economic policy for a long period of time, and I believe that it has paid handsome dividends to Australia. The worrying and disturbing aspect, of course, is the rate of inflation, which is much too high. In a moment I wish to say something about a positive method of combating this inflation. First of all, may I make a reference to expenditure in the public sector and the community's desire to see an effective review of government departments aimed at increasing efficiency. I am sure that the Government is aware of this desire. Indeed indications have been made to that effect. There is also a desire to see a minimising of the rate of growth in the Commonwealth Public Service. We all have the greatest admiration for the heads of the Commonwealth Public Service. They are men of great ability and integrity. We are fortunate to have men of the calibre that we have as the heads of our various government departments. They are men with a great sense of responsibility. I believe that we can feel confident that they will play their part in this particular exercise. 
I suggest that there is possibly some unnecessary overlapping which could be looked at by the heads of departments and others who are concerned with examining internal procedures. I am not convinced in my own mind that there may not be some opportunity for economising in relation to overlapping, for example, with some of the State government departments. I know that there is a system of internal controls within the Commonwealth Public Service in relation to government expenditure and departmental outlay. I know too that suggestions have been made from other sources that there might be added to these controls some expert advice. This is a matter for the Government and for the Public 
Service Board and for those charged with the responsibility of economising in this field. 
Retarding our economy, retarding our progress and greatly adding to the fires of inflation is the matter of industrial disputes that have resulted in an increasing number of man days lost over the last 2 or  3  years. Only last Thursday the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  made some comments about this. Quite recently the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  made a statement on this matter. It is a matter of general concern within the ranks of the Parties on this side of the House and, I believe, in the community generally. In 1968 1 million man days were lost through industrial disputes. In 1969 2 million man days were lost. In 1970 2.4 million man days were lost. In the first quarter of this present year there was a 4 per cent increase on the corresponding figures for 1970. This is not good enough. 
We need to have a greater sense of responsibility in this nation. We need more cohesion between the various elements that make up our community. Above all we need a greater sense of unity of purpose, a greater sense of direction in the whole industrial field if Australia is to achieve real strength and solidarity and go steadily forward to its true destiny. After all - I think this scarcely needs any underlining - we are one people; we are one nation; we are not just groups of people at loggerheads with one another. I believe we need some changes in the attitudes of mind. We need to discard some of the outworn slogans and cliches of the past. We need to think and work and plan more together for the common good. In 1970-71 the gross national product of this country rose at a rate of approximately 5 per cent, compared with 5.5 per cent in the financial year 1969-70. Unfortunately, as we all know, this has been accompanied by costpush pressure, and wage levels have been increasing at approximately  3  times the rate of increased productivity. I believe we are capable of a much better performance than this. Indeed we must do better. 
I now refer to the 1970 report brought down by the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board.  Sir Roland  Wilson, who is well known to us all. Indeed, he is one of the most distinguished men in Australia and one of the outstanding financial and ecoomic brains that this country has produced. I would like to read one or two brief extracts from the 1970 report given by  Sir Roland  Wilson. He said in that report: 
There are, at the start of the 1970s, some warning signals for us, and our reactions to them will have an important bearing on the future prosperity of this country. Improved productivity, must be an important determinant of growth of output in the coming years, and an important element in improved productivity will be highly skilled management and work forces. If the challenge of the future is to be met, Australia will need better training methods, both to upgrade existing skills, particularly in those areas where shortages of skilled labour persist, and to retrain people whose particular skills have been made redundant by the march of technological change. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended for dinner I was quoting from the 1970 report of  Sir Roland  Wilson in his capacity as  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation on the subject of inflation and productivity. For the sake of clarity I shall repeat the last sentence which I read previously.  Sir Roland  said: 
If the challenge of the future ls to be met, Australia will need better training methods, both to upgrade existing skills, particularly in those areas where shortages of skilled labour persist, and to retrain people whose particular skills have been made redundant by the march of technological change. Already useful steps have been taken. 

 Sir Roland continued: 
Improved productivity Is also closely related to efforts to control inflationary trends and pressures on the cost structure. It is vital, at the very least, that Australian costs should not rise at a faster rate than those in the other major trading nations. 
A climate of political and economic stability will always remain a fundamental basis for Australian economic growth. 
I believe that great credit is due to the Productivity Council of Australia for its efforts to publicise and emphasise the fundamental importance of increasing productivity if we are to maintain a high standard of living and a real wage value. I am supported in this view by  Mr A.  J. White, the  President  of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales. He told the annual meeting of the Chamber in Sydney last month: 
It is in the interest of unions to assist management in educating the work force to understand  that the only way wage increases can be of real benefit is by increasing productivity so that price rises can be kept to a minimum. 
This is a vital long-term task. It can be done. In fact it must be done even to maintain our standard of living. 
At page 36 of the 1970-71 report of the Reserve Bank of Australia there is an extremely illuminating article entitled "The Problem of Inflation'. Time will not permit me to quote from it, but I believe that it is well worth close study. The report refers to. the efforts made by many developed countries to restore price stability and seriously questions whether the traditional weapons of fiscal and monetary policy are, by themselves, adequate to combat inflation. During the past few years our trade has become more diversified and our external reserves and balance of payments position has strengthened. But we must bear in mind that our balance of payments is still heavily dependent on a high rate of capital inflow. Fortunately, Australia has a reputation for stability. Our mining boom over the past 10 years has, economically speaking, helped to offset the unhappy situation of our rural industries; a situation which is. of course, of very real concern to the Government and which this Budget endeavours to assist. No doubt some major long term readjustemnts will be necessary in relation to rural industries generally. 
 There are strongly held views in certain quarters regarding the effect of taxation on incentive. Some leading economists maintain that the level of taxation should not rise above 25 per cent of the gross national income, otherwise it would have an inflationary effect. I am sure that the Government is well aware of this and is watching the position carefully. Earlier this year - and indeed I think at some time during the latter part of last year also - I urged the Government to undertake a thorough review of the whole tax structure in Australia, as it is many years since the last overall review took place. T am hopeful that this task will be tackled during the present financial year and completed well before next year's Budget. 
The Brisbane Chamber of Commerce, in a recent statement on the economic situation, expressed some anxiety about the effect of the 1970 national wage increase of 6 per cent in relation to cost-push inflation, and urged that the Commonwealth and State governments, as the largest employers, should argue more energetically before the appropriate tribunals the economic impact of large increases in wages. The Chamber also raises the question as to whether an increase in the gross national product, as presently calculated, should be a basis for claiming an increase in wages. It said: 
A general increase in wages builds up GNP (as presently calculated), which in turn is used as an argument for further increased wages, which in turn again builds up this calculation of GNP. There is room for belief that an increase in GNP (as presently calculated) is not a true guide as to an increase in real productivity. 
There is a growing interest in Australia and in other countries in the very important matter of conservation. The honourable member for Reid who preceded me in this debate made some very thoughtful comments about our environment. Development and change are a part of progress. But in the process we must avoid any unnecessary destruction of our heritage, in the interests of succeeding generations. Earlier in my speech I referred to the mining boom in Australia. I shall quote a short paragraph from the August 1971 issue of the publication 'Viewpoint', which is published by the Australian Conservation Foundation. The subject of the issue is Conservation and Mining in Modern Australia'. The following appears in it: 
Mining has made an inestimable contribution to the present well-being attained by Australians. It can continue to sustain the economic progress of the country and the individual's standard of living for many years to come. As an industry it is certain to expand; all the conditions necessary to enable unfettered growth are present by virtue of our laws, attitudes, demand, borrowing power, and technical skill. We can be reasonably sure that over the next decade or so mining will generate such sweeping changes that Australia and the way of life pursued here will be altered beyond imagination. Some parts of our environment and heritage, however, must be retained in their present condition for science, recreation, or use in the more remote future. 
The tasks confronting us in this country are many and varied. Both internally and externally there are major problems to be faced and wrestled with. I am confident that we can solve these problems if we lift our sights to wider horizons and work and plan together for a greater Australia. 

Order! There must be no personal reflection on any member of the House. 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate  (on  motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 

Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Will the Minister for Social Services inform the Senate whether the Government intends that the Social Security Committee, the Government members of which were elected last November, shall continue to function, in view of the vast expansion of social services envisaged by the Government due to the success of the referendum of this issue? 

 Senator McKenna said: 
In recent months I have heard nothing about that particular committee, but by reason of the fact that the Government has nominated its own members, it would appear that the Government is interested in the continuance of that committee. Speaking for myself, I should welcome the reestablishment of the committee. I may need correction on this point, but I am under the impression that the Opposition parties have declined to appoint representatives to that body; and that accounts for the fact that the committee is not functioning at the moment. If that is the decision of the Opposition parties, I hope that they will reconsider their attitude and allow that very useful body to carry on with the splendid work it has already done in the social services field. 
Later, on 14th May 1947,  Senator Tangney  asked the Minister for Health this question: 
Following on a question I asked last Thursday, and the answer given by the Minister for Health and Social Services, I now ask the Minister whether in view of the fact that the Opposition is still on strike in connection with its representation on the Social Security Committee, will the Minister consider appointing a conciliation commissioner to arrange for the reconstitution of that committee, so that some of the many social problems awaiting solution may be investigated during the next parliamentary recess? 

 Senator McKenna said:  1 acknowledge the great value of the work that has hitherto been done by all members of the Social Security Committee, and I am not aware that the present position is anything in the nature of a 'strike'; it may be merely a boycott. In any event I suggest that the intervention of a conciliation commissioner might have fruitful results, not only for the Parliament, but also for myself and the country. Perhaps this matter might be better pursued when the Senate reaches an item which appears later on the notice-paper. 
That conclusively proves the point that I made and that I have been misrepresented. The greatest social security committee that was every set up by this Parliament was boycotted and disbanded because of the actions of the Liberal Party. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar - Minister for Social Services) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hayden's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he is aware of a statement attributed to a Queensland Cabinet Minister concerning the flow of pornography through Post Office channels. If so, would the Postmaster-General care to comment and indicate what action is being taken by his Department particularly with regard to the use of Post Office boxes? 
There is no substance in the point of order, as the honourable member well knows. 
I am delighted that the Government has decided to make provision for increased pensions, as indicated in these Bills. I express my very strong personal appreciation of the action that the Government has taken, firstly, as a matter of justice and equity to superannuated and retired officers, and secondly, from the point of view of the morale of those present Commonwealth officers who are nearing retirement and whose financial outlook in the future would have been somewhat bleak if it had not been for the proposals contained in these measures. It has been pointed out by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that the last adjustment was made 4 years ago, in 1967. It is well known that since that time inflation has eroded the value of existing pensions and that many retired officers, particularly those in the lower bracket, have been suffering quite considerable financial hardship. 
The Treasurer has indicated that the increases will be determined by the notional salary method which, I understand, is the method that the superannuated officers expected would be applied. 1 would like to congratulate the Treasurer on undertaking to examine simpler methods of adjustment with a view to making future adjustments at regular intervals on the most equitable basis that can be arrived at. I am sure that the House generally will note with satisfaction also that provision has been made for widows and certain orphans. The Treasurer has also given an assurance that the position of orphans and children will be given further consideration when the ninth quinquennial investigation of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is completed. However, one matter of complaint has been brought to my notice by one of my constituents who is a Commonwealth superannuated officer and who has been in correspondence with the Treasurer and with me for quite some time. With your permission,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to quote a couple of extracts from a copy of a letter dated 7th Sep tember 1971 which was written by this former officer to the Treasurer. He sent me a copy for my information. He said: 
While appreciating the relief afforded by the proposed adjustments, it is a pity that the Government did not eliminate the discrimination between contributors and pensioners in respect of  untaken  units. The limited non-contributory unit scheme introduced in 1968 afforded benefits only to contributors, whereas I suggest that 'the greatest need' . . . was clearly for superannuation pensioners. Moreover the extension of the scheme should not be very costly because a substantial part of the gross cost would be recovered from increased income tax payable by the recipients. 
The final paragraph of the letter reads as follows: 
Would you please give consideration to bringing contributors and pensioners into line in respect of non-contributory and  untaken  units respectively; especially where pensioners satisfy the specific requirements available to contributors as covered in the 1968 adjustments. 
With the exception of this point raised by my constituent, 1 believe that there is a general feeling of satisfaction and appreciation amongst all those who are going to benefit under these measures. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
This debate on the Estimates for the Parliament provides honourable members with the opportunity to have a good look at ourselves as a Parliament. It is always interesting to listen to honourable members on both sides speaking objectively on the Parliament and its procedures, our working methods and so on. It is a happy augury that there has been a bipartisan approach to this whole question although I would agree with my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  that the way in which we debate the Estimates is not really satisfactory. We still have to find a satisfactory method of dealing with the Estimates line by line and scrutinising and examining the expenditure in the way we really should. For example, the total amount of expenditure that is estimated for the Parliament for the 1971- 72 financial year - $4.829m - is not really being scrutinised line by line at all although we do have before us the details set out in Appropriation Bill (No. 1). I feel that we must bend our minds towards finding a better way of dealing with the Estimates. 
Tonight we have heard quite a number of constructive thoughts and suggestions and, I regret, a few destructive ones. I do hot agree with those who deplore the traditions of the Parliament. I believe these traditions have been handed down to us and should be valued by us. As the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  said, if we take away the dignity of the Parliament what have we left? Not very much. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  made a good point when he suggested that the Government might consider introducing the system of White Papers adopted at Westminster. This might help to improve the quality of debates by informing honourable members of all parties in a constructive way and would greatly aid them in their research in various fields. The suggestion that there are too many motions relating to matters of public importance was a valid criticism. I would be one of the last in the Parliament to want to inhibit in any way the right of any member of any party to move any motion or use any of the forms of the Parliament in the proper way. However, I feel there are occasions, such as during the budget session of the Parliament when we are debating the second reading stage of the main Appropriation Bill, familiarly called the budget debate, and during the course of the present Estimates debate which will continue for some days, when we could well do without motions relating to matters of public importance. The same argument would apply to the AddressinReply debate. 1 am not seeking in any way to take away any of the rights of honourable members to use the forms of the Parliament. We spend a growing amount of time every day on the presentation of petitions and 1 hope that the Standing Orders Committee will in the fairly near future look at the whole matter of petitions to see whether some satisfactory means can be found of handling them, more effectively and expeditiously and in a less timewasting fashion. I hope too that the Standing Orders Committee will have a look at the necessity - I feel there is no necessity now - to have motions and amendments seconded. In passing, I understand that the House of Commons at Westminster abandoned the seconding of motions and amendments about 10 years ago. I think we all are in agreement on the need for the better streamlining of legislation during the session and I know that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz),  the  Deputy  Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and other Ministers are trying very hard to co-ordinate the measures to be introduced in this present session to avoid the end of session rush with which we all are so familiar and which does the Parliament no good at all. 
I have often felt that we are very unfair to the officers of the Parliament. We are very unfair to the Hansard staff; we are very unfair to the Library staff; and we are very unfair to the transport staff, including the drivers, when we sit late at night. I am one of those who believe that most of us do not function effectively after about 11 p.m. and I think that for the most part 11 p.m. is late enough on any ordinary sitting day except, perhaps, for the closing stages of a session when there is legislation to be cleared. Even then I hope we can find some means of regularising the procedures for debating Bills and handling their presentation in a more streamlined, more satisfactory and more efficient way than we have so far managed to do. 
I want to make only a passing reference, since there is no question of an expenditure involved in the Estimates, to the urgent and growing need for the calling for a new Parliament House design. I am not advocating the expenditure of any amount of money, nor is any expenditure provided for in these Estimates that we are now considering but, as a member of the House Committee and a number of other committees on which I have the honour to serve, I see quite starkly the need for a new Parliament House to be designed and plans to be got under way. I have on good authority that it would be about 3 .years at least before any money would need to be outlaid, but if we do not get busy and if the Government does not make a decision fairly soon I feel, that by the time the present extensions to this building are completed there will be a demand and a need for more space. Unless there is a concentration of thought and better longrange planning on this matter of accommodation for members, staff and the ancillary services of the Parliament we will not be doing ourselves justice and will not have a properly functioning Parliament. 
It should be mentioned in relation to the long sitting hours, very often until midnight and sometimes past midnight, that quite a number of officers have to do about another hour's work in Parliament House and at the Government Printing Office before they can go to bed in their hotels or homes. When the House rises in the evening most of us are able to put on our hats, get into a car, go back to our hotels and go to bed but this does not apply to a lot of the senior officers of the Parliament. Attendants have to stay here to clean up after the day's work, the transport people are still busy and the Hansard staff is also busy. Quite a number of others are also affected. I believe we should give more consideration to the staff which serves this Parliament so well and in future when we are thinking about the hours of sitting let us have more regard for these people than we have had in the past. 
There is a great need for more committee rooms. This ties in with what I have just said about the long range need for a new parliament house and for designs for a new parliament house. The consideration of the report of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has been on the notice paper since 8th April 1970. I urge the Government to make an early decision on the calling for designs for the new parliament house. It is inevitable - and we have to accept this - that there is a growing volume of work in this place. We have reverted to the 3-day sitting week and I think that we all want to make the Parliament function as effectively and efficiently as we can with the time available to us. Members of this Parliament have a lot of demands on their time in their own electorates and this is why, as we all know, we decided to go back to the 3-day sitting week. I believe that now we have adopted this course we have to accept that we must make the very best use that we possibly can of the 3 days that we sit in Canberra. The time will surely come, although per haps not while most of us will be here, when there will be even more members in this Parliament and an even greater volume of work to attend to and a greater number of Bills to deal with and more sitting days will be required. But for the time being I hope that we will not only avoid late night sittings but also that we will make more efficient use of the time that we have available to us. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Education and Science I should like, firstly, to compliment the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Department on the excellent presentation of those estimates. I cannot recall any other occasion when a Minister or department has presented estimates with such a full set of explanatory notes, item by item, as we have been furnished with on this occasion. I am sure it is appreciated by other honourable members besides myself. Secondly, I congratulate the Minister on his recent statement setting out the Commonwealth Government's education programme for 1971-72. In the course of that statement the Minister indicated that the Commonwealth's direct expenditure on education this financial year is estimated at $345,534,000 or 14 per cent more than was spent in 1970- 71 and twice as much as the direct Commonwealth expenditure of 5 years ago. 
Apart from this, each year the Commonwealth makes available to the various States a large amount by negotiation with the Premiers and Treasurers of the States. In fact, approximately one-third of the total revenue collected by the Commonwealth is paid over to the States annually for various purposes. It is then a matter for each of the State governments to set its own priorities with regard to education, health and all the other fields of government for which they are responsible within their own borders. The Minister has indicated that the States at present are spending in this financial year an estimated $1,1 00m on education, so to ascertain the total amount currently being spent in approximate terms on education in Australia this financial year one adds those 2 sums together and the total is approximately $l,445m. I believe that all governments in Australia should be willing to cooperate in the increasingly important task of improving and developing education and education services and improving what the Minister referred to recently as the 'quantity and quality of education' in Australia. If we are to achieve our objective I believe there is need for closer co-operation. 
The Commonwealth role in education no doubt will become more clearly defined as time passes. In the Australian Capital 
Territory and the Northern Territory the Commonwealth has a direct responsibility. In the States the prime responsibility rests with the State governments to ensure that funds are applied to the best possible advantage. The Commonwealth Government has indicated that it will continue to provide matching grants to the States both for universities and for colleges of advanced education. In addition, the Commonwealth is providing special assistance in relation to increases in overhead costs due to steep wage and salary increases awarded to non-academic staff. I know that this problem has been of growing concern to the authorities in the field of tertiary education for quite some time. 
The Minister has given an assurance to the House that the Commonwealth Government will continue to contribute to the capital cost of teacher training and has indicated that about $13m will be provided in the current financial year under the State Grants (Teachers Colleges) Act. Recognising that the States needed some additional teacher training facilities the Commonwealth has not stipulated that there should be a matching grant. It is difficult to understand why the States spent only about one fourth of the sum made available by the Commonwealth for teacher training colleges in the last financial year, but no doubt this matter will be sorted out and an explanation may later be forthcoming. 
It should not be overlooked that the Commonwealth is making a major contribution towards the cost of teacher education courses in the tertiary field. Information supplied to the House recently by the Minister shows that there are more than 1,000 teacher trainees at colleges of advanced education and over 15,000 teacher trainees are attending universities. Commonwealth capital grants for pre-school teachers colleges are estimated to amount to more than Sim in the financial year to 30th June 1972 and $40m is being provided by the Commonwealth Government in the current triennium towards teacher education in teachers colleges and colleges of advanced education. 
The States and the Commonwealth acting in conjunction have clearly made good progress in the field of teacher education. I have no doubt that more remains to be done. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  stated in his Budget Speech that the number of advanced education scholarships would be increased from 2,500 to 4,000 awards from the beginning of 1972 and that there would also be 200 new awards for students in teacher education who contemplate joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Expenditure in the various scholarship programmes is estimated this financial year at $43. 7m compared with $38.4m in the last financial year. The number of students granted scholarships is expected to rise from 66,000 in 1971 to 71,000 in 1972. 
The colleges of advanced education which in some respects are still evolving are growing year by year and the Commonwealth Government is to be congratulated on deciding to grant 1,500 additional scholarships worth $430,000 during the current financial year. The nationwide survey of educational needs during the period 1971-1975, which was tabled by the Minister a few days ago, will, I believe, help greatly in assessing educational needs in primary and secondary education in nongovernment schools, and taken in conjunction with the survey of government schools published in 1970 by the Australian Education Council represents an important step forward. 
The Australian Education Council, as I understand it, consists of the State Ministers for Education. In the interests of Commonwealth and State co-operation in the overall field of education, it would seem desirable that the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science should also be a member of the Council. After all, the Commonwealth does have a direct responsibility in the field of education in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Some people have a tendency to look unduly to the Commonwealth with respect to education. The Minister has made it clear that the Commonwealth fully recognises the national importance of education and that the Government wants to do whatever it can do appropriately in co-operation with the State governments. 
He has pointed out that the Commonwealth has sought to improve the States' own general financial resources to assist the States in meeting their needs and responsibilities. This was the approach preferred by the State Premiers, as was indicated at the Premiers Conferences and Australian Loan Council meetings in 1970 and 1971. Figures furnished by the Minister with regard to Budget percentage allocations for education State by State show that some States place a higher priority on education than do others. There is also a marked variation in the pupil-teacher ratio objectives that the States are aiming at for 1975, the final year of the survey period to which I referred earlier. I hope that the State Ministers for Education will consult fully with the Commonwealth Ministers for Education and Science so that we may attain in Australia the maximum possible results from the national surveys that have been completed. 
Progress reported. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science a member of tha Australian Education Council or does it still comprise only State Ministers for Education? 

Order! Has the honourable member concluded his speech? 

Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
Such an authorised person, who would probably be an officer of the Commission, can become aware of all the most confidential trading details of any wool buyer or merchant. This will cause the greatest hostility among buyers and again is an affront to those who determine whether wool is sold. Is it the intention of the Act to provide autocratic means to compel buyers to give confidential trading information to the Minister so that the Commission will become, quite improperly, aware of the price limits of the buying houses and particularly of the merchants? I want it distinctly understood that I am in favour of assisting the wool industry to the utmost, even in the first instance up to S500m, but I want the money utilised intelligently to the greatest benefit of the industry and those engaged therein. There cannot be any protest against what I propose, because secondary industry over the years has been subsidised many times the $500m that I have referred to and at the expense and cost of primary industries. However, what we are doing is not in the best interests of the wool industry. I suggest the withdrawal of the Bill before the House. The International Wool Secretariat, the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Industry Conference should be wound up forthwith. The Australian Wool Commission should be the sole authority and its charter altered. The Government's action may be well intentioned, but it is misplaced. The people who will benefit most from the support price plan in the short term are opposed to the provisions of the Bill and are convinced that the implementation of such provisions will mean the eventual elimination of the wool industry. They would prefer to work to a long range plan to build up a strong viable wool industry adapted to totally different conditions and conceptions from those of the past. 
I present the re  port of the Committee of Privileges relating to a letter to the editor published in the Australian' of 13th September 1971 together with minutes of proceedings. This matter was referred to the Committee of Privileges on 13th September 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for Thursday, 4 November 1971. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. " (The documents read as follows): 

<graphic href="074131197110283_27_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197110283_28_0.jpg"></graphic>


Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
I believe that there is general agreement that Australia must continue to build up its population which is now approximately  I2i  million. Obviously the easiest and most economical way to do this is to encourage larger Australian-born families, as was pointed out a few minutes ago by my colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt).  Equally clearly, this is not sufficient and Australia must proceed with our controlled immigration programme and bring into Australia the most suitable people available, having regard to the economic circumstances from time to time. I believe that it is a matter of great regret that the long standing bipartisan policy on immigration was abandoned by the Australian Labor Party at its Launceston Conference this year. The controlled immigration policy instituted many years ago by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and supported until recently by the great majority of the people on the other side of the chamber appears to have been discarded. I believe that the warning given earlier tonight by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is the Minister or Housing, was well founded. 
The estimated expenditure for the current financial year, $66,286,000, constitutes a reduction of more than $4m compared with the actual expenditure last year. Administrative expenses, shown in Division 330, are down. Other services, particularly payments to Commonwealth Hostels Ltd, are reduced, but I am glad to note that the proposed contribution to Good Neighbour Councils represents a substantial increase. I believe that an increase is fully justified. I pay my tribute to the voluntary workers who assist migrants in the often difficult task of settling down in a new country. These helpers provide the personal touch which I know from my own observations makes a world of difference to new arrivals and is an important part of the process of their integration into our Australian way of life. It has been a vital part of the success of our immigration programme that migrants be regarded and treated in all respects as human beings, not merely as statistics in terms of population growth or increased work force. 
Migrants and their children, including their Australian born children, have over the years played a significant part in our national development and have made a mighty contribution in the industrial field. It has been estimated that without our migration programme over the past 25 years Australia would have forfeited 5 years progress in every 10. I pay a very sincere tribute to the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and to  Sir Tasman  Heyes for the magnificent work they did in the early post-war years in launching what has been the largest and most successful immigration programme of any country. Subsequent Ministers and departmental officers have continued with the task of nation building and Australia today is stronger in every way as a result of their efforts. During the years I served as  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Immigration Planning Council I was very closely associated with both the Minister and departmental officers in Australia and overseas, and I have first hand knowledge of their dedication and efficiency. 
In the current economic situation I believe the Government has acted wisely in reducing the flow of migrants and in endeavouring to place emphasis on quality rather than quantity. The growing prosperity of many of our traditional migrant source countries makes this task more difficult. The major proposed increases of expenditure on immigration in this Bill relate to migrant education services. These appear on page 52. The allocation for full time intensive English language courses for 1971-72 is $951,000 compared with $850,000 last year. The largest increase is in relation to child migrant education programmes. Last year we spent $1,844,984, which was very close to the appropriation for 1970-71. During the current financial year the Government proposes to spend $2,610,000. 
Until last year the Commonwealth's role in migrant education had been concerned mainly with adults. A ministerial statement of 23rd April 1970 set out details of improved and expanded measures for the education of child and adult migrants following a survey of schools and discussions with State education authorities. Paragraph 67 on page 14 of the Minister's report on the migration education programme for the financial year 1970-71 reads as follows: 
Under the programme the Department meets the salary costs of special teachers engaged in the instruction of migrant children and the cost of language-laboratory type equipment. In conjunction with the Department of Education and Science, the Department is directly responsible for arranging training courses for special teachers and for the production and distribution of  necessary  teaching and learning materials. 
This substantial stepping up of child migrant education will, I am sure, pay handsome dividends for Australia in the years to come. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The summary on page 39 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 which is before the Committee, showing estimated expenditure or the Department of Foreign Affairs, indicates a total expenditure of $89,913,000 for 1971-72. This represents an increase of approximately $8,500,000 over the actual expenditure for last year, 1970-71. An examination of pages 40 to 43 of that document shows the wide field over which this money is to be spent. I note that there is increased provision for cultural relations overseas and for relief of destitute Australians abroad. Some areas of expenditure show a marked increase over the expenditure for 1970-71. For example, there are contributions to the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation - UNESCO as it is generally known - the South Pacific Commission, the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Our contribution to OECD rises from $18,400 to $500,000 which demonstrates the Australian Government's readiness to assist to an increasing extent in this important field. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out in August in his Budget Speech, Australia was ranked third in the world in 1970, for the fifth year in succession, by the Development Assistance Committee of OECD,  a  fact of which I think we can be proud. 
Over the years Australia has faithfully paid its membership dues, as assessed, to the United Nations. We have also paid our share of the cost of peace-keeping forces. Some nations have been unwilling - perhaps in some cases unable - to do this. The major offender in relation to unpaid contributions is the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a foundation member of the United Nations, a member of the Security Council and one of the great powers of the world. France is another offender. I believe that the United Nations has shown weakness in not insisting on the payment and in not enforcing article 19 of the Charter in those cases where failure to pay is not due to conditions beyond the control of the member nation concerned. The retiring Secretary-General of the United Nations, U Thant, stated in his final report a few weeks ago that the United Nations must very soon face the fact that it is a bankrupt organisation which needs at least $60m to pay its immediate debts. If the recalcitrant nations paid what they owe to the United Nations its financial plight would not be so serious today. One international writer says: 
As he bows out this December after a record 10 years in office, U Thant leaves an organisation that is not only insolvent, but which failed most of its lofty ideals. 
Unhappily, this is true. Perhaps if there had been a greater willingness to cooperate for the benefit of the world at large the position today may have been very different. I believe it is unfair to heap the blame for substantial failure on the head of the Secretary-General, although no doubt he must accept his share of responsibility for the administrative and financial side. The same writer whom I just quoted also referred to 'the General Assembly becoming in the last decade the creature of small developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America'. He goes on: 
If is now possible for 83 States having only 10 per cent of the world's population and paying only 5 per cent of the United Nation's budget to pass important resolutions by the required two-thirds majority. Time after time these countries built up majorities for resolutions which they had no power to enforce. 
No-one can claim that this state of affairs is conducive to sound, constructive decisions in the interests of world peace. Certain nations have used and are using United Nations as a forum for their own propaganda and a vehicle for their own self- interest, thus betraying the high purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. The double standards manifest in the United Nations reflect no credit on that organisation. It pretends to uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, yet many member nations pay no regard to the human rights of the 14 million Nationalist Chinese on Taiwan. Quite unceremoniously this fine country of civilised people was recently expelled from the United Nations, and we read that some of the African delegates jigged for joy at the expulsion. What we do not read is that the United Nations expresses any concern for the millions of human beings who are enslaved behind the Iron Curtain; least of all is anything done to assist them or to minimise their plight in any way. As far as the United Nations is concerned it seems that their plight is not even recognised. 
I deplore this double morality in the United Nations. The desperate situation of the Pakistani refugees has undoubtedly touched many hearts throughout the world. I believe there is widespread approval of Australia's action in increasing our aid to these refugees as announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  recently and also of the Government's assurance that it will continue to keep the position under constant review. I believe that this statement was widely welcomed in the country. Let us hope that a general settlement can be arrived at between India and Pakistan and the tragedy of war averted. 
Page 42 of the Appropriation Bill that we are now considering sets out proposed allocations under the Colombo Plan, covering projects, experts and equipment, and special aid io Indonesia, our nearest neighbour to the north. I believe Australia can be proud of the part it has played under the Colombo Plan, of which it was the sponsor. Australia has also played a major role in relation to the South Pacific Commission. Our proposed contribution to the South Pacific aid programme has been increased from just over $500,000 in 1970- 71 to $lm this financial year. 
In the Dyason lecture delivered a few weeks ago at the University of Queensland Lord Trevelyan, a distinguished British diplomat, said he saw a growing role for Australia in the maintenance of a peaceful and economically viable South East Asia and that Australia's role in the region is bound to increase as Australia develops into  a  strong economic force. I do not need to emphasise that Australia is  a  large land mass but it is of course a relatively small power. We have a population of only 12$ million people at the present time. Our resources are not unlimited; they are finite. Our future is closely bound up with that of other countries in our region. Though historically and culturally of the West, we have a golden opportunity, situated geographically as we are, of helping to bridge the gap between East and West. I believe this is an important part of Australia's destiny. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, in his capacity as Minister in Charge - Tourist Activities. In view of the importance of the tourist industry in relation to our economy, I ask the Minister whether everything possible is being done to encourage tourists to Australia and whether he is receiving the necessary co-operation from the States and from the various organisations concerned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine - million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $1Om for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Ring the bells. (The bells being rong) - 
Is the amendment seconded? 
I have listened with interest tonight to the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and of the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  My colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  some little time ago replied to the speech made by the honourable member for Fremantle who moved the following amendment: 
That the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for assumption by the Commonwealth of responsibility for financing university education. 
I  do not want to go over that ground. Some interesting points were made by the honourable member for Barton. I have noted three or four of them andI will say something about them as I proceed. For instance, he referred to the problem of increasing fees at universities. He referred to the desirability of increasing scholarships. He also referred to certain inequalities which still exist. Another point I noted, and with which I agree, is that not all. university problems will be solved by this Bill, and I do not think that anyone suggests that they will be solved by this Bill. 
In common with my colleague the honourable member for Denison, I welcome this Bill and the additional financial assistance that it provides for universities during the  1970-72  triennium. Unexpectedly large increases in non-academic salaries and wages represent a major problem for university authorities, and speaking with regard to my own State, I know that the extra financial help decided upon by the Commonwealth Government is very much appreciated. I refer particularly to the University of Queensland at St Lucia, and I take the opportunity of stressing, because I think this needs to be stressed, that the University should be judged by the solid work of the vast majority of the staff and students and not by the headlines given to a handful of radicals and extremists whose chief aim appears to be to disrupt. Maybe they are friends of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is trying to interject. 
I understand that consequent upon this legislation that we are considering, it will now be possible, within the still very stringent limits of the funds available, to pay more attention to rising costs and increasing needs in other areas, such as equipment, maintenance and the library. Unfortunately, so far as the library at the University of Queensland is concerned, the rise in costs of materials is much higher even than the rise in wages. So the problem in this area is still acute and looks like remaining so for some time. My information is that the Queensland Government is supplementing increased grants after, but not before, 1st July 1971. As a result of extremely heavy financial burdens on the University of Queensland during 1970 and the first half of 1971, the provision of staff, equipment and ancillary services has fallen behind, and it has not been possible to reach the targets proposed by the Australian Universities Commission in its fourth report which was published in 1969. 
The position of the University of Queensland is one of particular difficulty, and tonight I want to speak briefly about these difficulties. It is the only university in Brisbane, now a city of approximately 750,000 people, and it is the only university in Queensland to provide a widerange of professional courses which, as honourable members know, are very costly. In addition, it is the only large metropolitan university in Australia to provide external study courses. It is not expected that the Griffith University will be in operation for another 4 years, or longer. In the meantime, the situation at St Lucia continues to become more difficult, with growing enrolments. Even when the Griffith University is established it will not provide professional courses, nor will it cover external studies. Consequently, very heavy burdens will continue to fall on the University of Queensland for many years to come, and there is undoubtedly a strong case for special financial consideration to be given to this university during the next triennium, as well as during the current one. 
I am glad to say that the building programme at St Lucia, which had previously been held back, is now progressing reasonably satifactorily. As honourable members know, clause 5 of the Bill sets out the allocation of funds for new buildings and for extensions in the current triennium, 1970-72. The central library at St Lucia is expected to be built in 3 stages and to be completed in about February 1973. The western arts wing, which is an extension of the main building, is expected to be completed in May 1972. A new microbiology building to replace the one at Herston will be built on the western side of the campus, and it will be a big improvement. Plans for the building of a great hall are also under way. A public appeal for funds was launched about 11 years ago, and there was a good response. A total of approximately $400,000 was subscribed by the citizens of Queensland towards the building of a great hall at the University of Queensland. In addition, the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments both guaranteed to contribute $100,000 towards the cost of this great hall, and a tender has recently been received which will enable the long delayed plan for a great hall to proceed. 
The honourable member for Barton made some comments about increases in fees, and I share his concern in this respect. The question of student fees gives cause for concern not only to students and their parents who have to find the fees, but also to the university authorities. The State of Queensland requires that 23 per cent of the University's income shall be obtained from fees, and I believe that Queensland is unique in this respect. If the University fails to raise 23 per cent, the maximum government grant is not attracted. Tn 1972 fees are expected to rise by approximately 27 per cent, and by all standards this must be regarded as a very steep increase. Unfortunately, it is likely that quite a number of very good students may be precluded from enrolling at the University from 1972 onwards by reason of this steep increase in fees. I believe that this situation is inequitable, and I agree with what the honourable member for Barton has said regarding the need to iron out inequalities where they exist. I believe that 'his situation warrants further special financial consideration. 
I also agree with the suggestion of the honourable member for Barton that consideration should be given to the granting of additional Commonwealth scholarships. This would be a very welcome course and I hope that the Government will find it possible to do this in the current triennium as it has done in recent years. I am glad that the Opposition is not opposing the Bill but merely moving an amendment to it. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill and 1 regard it as a major step forward in the field of tertiary education in Australia. 

Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Cope)  negatived: 
That the  honourable  member for Bendigo be granted an extension of time. 
I present the report together with the minutes of proceedings and the minutes of evidence from the Committee of Privileges in connection with the matter referred to the Committee by the House on 7th September 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: ' 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for Wednesday, 8th December 1971. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Grassby - I second the amendment and reserve my right to speak. 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 
Best Arrangement' for Dried Fruits 
The main points in the plan, from 1971 to 1975, are: 
Base price set each season according to cash costs movements for sultanas, raisins and currants. 
Base price for 1971: Sultanas $273 a ton; currants $313 a ton; raisins $243 a ton. 
If average return exceeds $10 a ton over base price, grower pays into funds to maximum of $20 a ton. 
If return more than $10 a ton below base price, payments from funds to growers. 
Government guarantees bounty payments with maximum payment of $23 a ton if Government money involved. 
Tonnage limitations apply. No contributions are paid when production is less than 8,000 tons for currants, 60,000 tons for sultanas and 6,000 tons for raisins. 
No bounty is paid from a fund on more than 13,500 tons for currants, 75,000 tons for sultanas and 11,000 tons for raisins. 
An important feature was that in a year when bounty was payable, 90 per cent of the bounty, estimated on statistics available on 25th February following .the crop, would be paid soon after that date. The remaining 10 per cent would be paid soon after. 
The meeting was organised by the Australian Dried Fruits Association and the Member for Mallee,  Mr Winton  Turnbull. The League's Development and Promotion Officer,  Mr W.  R. Denbow, attended with South Australian growers. 
Extract from article  by 

 Mr W. R. Denbow 
The Aborigines called it place of red rock - Mildura. In 1887, George and William Chaffey established their 'irrigation colony' in a 'Sahara of hissing, hot winds and red driving sand' as the sceptics described it. Today that colony covers over 50,000 acres of irrigated vines and citrus amid a population of 35,000 people. They call it Sunraysia, a name which conjures up a land of sunshine. Indeed it is, boasting more hours of sunshine during the year than famed Surfers Paradise. 
To the visitor impressions are great expanses of vine plantings, a striking highway plantation clothed with green lawns and trees splashed with beds of floral colour, a clean city with wide streets and inviting stores - a refreshing contrast to the surrounding country. 
In the irrigation areas the fruit industry activities are absorbing and educational. Inspections can be made of the great Red Cliffs pumping station, the largest in Australia with a daily capacity of 640 million gallons; the dried fruits and citrus .packing houses, very much automated in their operations; and the Mildara Winery at Merbein, established at Irymple originally by W. B. Chaffey. For those who have not seen the operations of a fruit block, two vine and' citrus orchards conduct inspections and slide screenings to show what goes on. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The present rates of customs duties applicable to dried vine fruits (currants, sultanas and raisins) imported into the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand are as follows : 
In addition to the abovementioned countries Australian dried vine fruits receive favourable tariff treatment in a number of British Commonwealth countries and Ireland. 
Details regarding the present duties applicable to Australian Greek and Turkish sultanas in Western European, Scandinavian and Irish markets are set out in the following table: 

<graphic href="075131197112020_125_17.jpg"></graphic>

The diversification of markets for this industry is a very serious matter. The home consumption sector of the industry is very low. A great deal more work must be done to achieve proper diversification if this industry is to continue to exist. 1 do not wish to pursue that any further at this stage other than to say that I believe that the Department of Trade and Industry will have to lend what help it can to the leaders of the industry to go and open up other trade avenues for this industry in the future. Japan represents a growing market and so do other countries of Asia, but not at a rate that will overcome the surplus production which could be available if we cannot get markets in the United Kingdom. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  refer to the importance of the dried fruits stabilisation scheme in relation to a surplus of grapes. I hope, as he does, that this stabilisation scheme will enable more people to channel irrigation-type grapes away from the wine industry and into the dried fruits industry, in spite of the remarks I have just made about the problems of marketing dried fruits. But the matter is not as simple as the honourable member seems to suppose. It has been suggested that the use of sultanas by the wine industry is a factor which has contributed to the present surplus of wine grapes. This is not so. Sultanas, by and large, have been used according to the individual wine maker's needs, which are influenced by a number of factors. Some wine makers will continually require sultanas for distillation purposes. Others will need them each year for blending purposes. Sultanas produce an almost neutral wine which is helpful in reducing strong characteristics in certain other varieties used for wine making. Furthermore, sultanas are the first wine grape variety available in the vintage and are frequently required for early distillation of fortifying spirit. 
Even if, to overcome the wine grape surplus, the Government were tempted to prohibit the sale of sultanas to the wine industry, many wine makers would plant their own sultanas because of the specific needs that I have mentioned. Each vintage the wine makers plan to produce a certain quantity of wine and spirit. If other varieties are in short supply, sultanas are a useful extra material for distillation.However, in these circumstances sultanas are used because the production target must be achieved in that year. To sum up, the wine maker either needs sultanas for a specific purpose or will use them when other varieties are in short supply. Under those circumstances they do not contribute very much to a surplus of grapes as it affects the wine industry. They merely meet the need of the moment based on present demand for wine or grape spirit. 
In my State in 1970 80,000 tons of sultanas were used. This year it is probable that only 40,000 tons will be used. So I use that argument to try to get into partial perspective the statement that I made and also to agree partially with the honourable member for Riverina, and I hope that he is right. I think that the proper perspective is that it should be possible to take some of the growing surplus in the wine industry and channel it into the dried fruits industry. Nevertheless, it is not as simple as that because of the different types and varieties involved. I have not had time to refer to the type of industry with which we are dealing, but I think the House should notice that here we aim to give help to an industry and for once the Opposition is not seeking to put a means test on it. I suppose it is probably because the Opposition, quite intelligently, realises that it is not that kind of industry. 
Bill. I will vote against the Opposition's amendment. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (12.42 a.m.) - Previous speakers either have spoken in favour of the Bill or have said that they ; were not opposed to it. On occasions the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has spoken about having to sit at a late hour, so I would consider it is too late for me to get out of step with other speakers. Therefore 1 inform the House that it is not my intention to oppose the Bill. I point out that the growers in my electorate are concerned about the inherent weaknesses in the general structure of the dried fruits industry. They consider that the clauses in the Bill will fail to remove those weaknesses, although from previous speakers one would get the impression that it will do this. But if we make a close examination of clause 3 we find why it will fail. Clause 3 of the Bill states that the base price for sultanas for 1971 is $273 per ton. Clause 4 mentions a give and take rate of $10 above or below this figure. 
This gives the impression that the grower will receive not less than $263 a ton for sultanas. This is far from the truth. If we take it that the prospects of all market returns are likely to be as low as $220 a ton - I am told that this is possible - the grower will receive as little as $243 a ton for his sultanas. In such a case the base price of $273 a ton is not the base price because it has no relationship to what the grower will receive. The Government has placed a limit of $23 a ton on the bounty rate. This is bad enough, but the' tragic part is that if the production for the season' exceeds 175,000 tons' this limit of $23 a ton on the bounty will be reduced further. Later I will give an example of how this will work. 
In the meantime 1 point out to the House that no-one should be fooled by the claim of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, that the growers voted overwhelmingly in favour of the plan, because it was offered on a this or nothing' basis. The other honourable members who have spoken made  a  great play of the percentage of growers who voted in favour of the scheme. It' is only natural that if a person is going to get nothing else he has to vote in favour of it. There is no-one here who would say it is not better than nothing. Of course it is better than nothing. I believe that all the growers who voted for this scheme knew it would only keep them on the farm a little longer, but that it would give them no hope of surviving economically. The wool industry has already shown that no-one can carry on long if he is receiving less than the cost of production. 
But this Bill seems to me to set the levels of assistance so low that the growers must receive less than the cost of production. One of the main disappointments as far as the grower is concerned is the fact that the Australian Dried Fruits Association asked for a minimum of 60,000 tons of sultanas and a maximum of 90,000 tons. The Government has agreed to the minimum of 60,000 tons but it has reduced the maximum tonnage from 90,000 tons to 75,000 tons, representing a reduction of 16 2/3 per cent on which the bounty will be paid, although the Australian Dried Fruits Association estimates that dried sultana production can be in excess 'of 90,000 tons. This estimate is based on the fact that in 1967 dried sultana production was 86,000 tons and fresh weight diversions to the wineries, which the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has just referred to, in that year were 17,134 tons. But by  1969  the fresh weight diversions had risen to 56,087 tons, ari increase of 30,953 tons. 
If this amount that has been going to the wineries finds its way back into the dried fruit industry one can easily imagine what the production of dried grapes will be. It would not be unrealistic to suppose that they will be at the level of 80,500 tons for dry production- and for reversion to drying an estimated 9,500 tons, a total of 90,000 tons. This was brought about, of course, by new plantings of thousands of acres of dried and dual purpose vines in Victoria. 
On 16th July 1970 the Australian Dried Fruits Association sent a telegram to the State Ministers for Agriculture and to the Federal Minister for Primary Industry pointing out this danger and asking for steps to be taken to facilitate the termination of planting by legislation, restriction of water rights or by any other means. But nothing was done because the Victorian Government gave the Australian Dried 
Fruits Association the thumb to the nose treatment and gave its blessing to continued new planting which will eventually spell economic disaster not only to 'the dried fruit growers in Victoria but also to growers in the other States. It is time the Federal Government had the courage to do something about this state of affairs other than by making the established growers pay the price of the sabotage of the Victorian Government by placing a limitation of 75.000 tons on which the bounty will be paid and at the same time setting a maximum of $23 a ton on the bounty rate when the Australian Dried Fruits Association had put a case for a maximum tonnage of 90,000 tons and an unlimited bounty rate. 
Another great concern of the grower is the fact that the base price is not related to the cost of production. Clause 2 of the Bill stales that the average price will be adjusted for each season according to movements in cash costs, including family labour, as assessed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Here again we see the same old tendency of this Government to deny the grower any right of appeal or chance lo submit evidence on what should be the average base price. They must rely on the interpretation of someone in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Why can it not bc related to straight out cost of production? The grower would know more about the cost of production than someone's friend sitting in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
In my . opinion, unless this stabilisation scheme is coupled with some real action to restructure the industry, we will see its collapse. We should examine all propositions put forward to solve the problem in the dried fruits industry. Some of the so-called experts seem to favour an increase in the si/e of farms. There could be farms that are loo small. But not a great deal of adjustment can bc made here because any marked increase in the size of a farm would involve the use of a great deal more hired labour with the inevitable drop in efficiency and, perhaps, production per acre. Already, the degree of mechanisation practised in Australia compares very favourably with that in California and is much greater than that in Europe. Even if we did allow further mechanisation, this in turn would bring its own problems and would involve a greater capital investment, resulting in more borrowed money and higher interest rates which already are crippling the industry. 
We must look to other areas for greater efficiency. As 80 per cent of our dried fruits must be exported, and we are unable to control world prices, the only area in which we can make some real adjustment to our efficiency is in the handling and selling of the dried fruits, not forgetting, of course, all commissions and charges because this is an area where someone else's friend seems to hold down an unnecessary position. It seems to me that, every time a rural industry is in trouble, the Government talks to the grower about greater efficiency and then creates more research schemes and additional positions for people on higher salaries further up the settle. In this House only this year we passed a Bill relating to dried fruits research. The grower was forced to pay a levy to meet the co.it of this research. The only thing that the research has achieved to dale, as far as I can ascertain, is to cause additional new plantings at a time of over production. Added to this, it has increased the salinity content of the water further down the. river. Yet this is why dried fruits growers are asked to pay a levy. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has gone to a lot of trouble previously to inform the House that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will be visiting his electorate. Now. this may help the tourist industry. But if the Minister is to grant new water rights for someone to grow more citrus or dried fruits, there are many dried fruits growers who say that it would be belter if he went into the Simpson Desert. 
Many of the growers claim that because of administration costs in the United Kingdom, advertising costs overseas, promotion surcharges, agents commissions and resellers rebates, dried fruits sold at $500 to $600 per ton in cartons return to the grower less than $250 per ton. We are told that the reason for retaining these very highly paid agents in England and other overseas countries is that buyers quite often claim that fruit delivered to them is not up to sample and the agent must inspect and make arrangements for discounts. According to all the information there seems to be some evidence to support this claim but it appears to me that the cure is worse than the disease. If we had a single statutory authority it could insist on standard quality and presentation. It would be an authority which could vigorously inspect fruit before it left Australia and which would also set a rigid standard and so minimise claims from buyers. We would not have half of the trouble that we now have. 
It is wrong to allow, as we do at present, many firms to export their own version of dried fruit under their own brands. There is a pressing need to increase and consolidate overseas markets. This can be done only by preparing the fruit for sale in the way that the buyer wants it. One authority must ensure that the cleaning, packing, grading, moisture content and size of the fruit in each grade are suitable for the market and are always standard. In other words, all fruit must conform to one standard and be sufficiently reliable to be guaranteed. While all this is taking place the home market should not be forgotten. An urgent investigation is needed here, lt is well known that pre-war consumption of sultana dried fruit was  Si  lb per head in Australia. It is now less than 4 lb per head. No doubt this is due to the fact that we have a large increase in imported dates which are being used in bakeries in the production of buns, scones, etc. They are being used not because the consumer prefers them to sultanas but because they can be purchased for 20c per lb whereas sultanas cost 39c per lb. The increase in imports of dates is indicative of the swing by the manufacturers away from sultanas. If it is justified to protect other manufacturing industries with tariffs then surely we should protect our dried fruit industry in the same manner. 
It is also claimed that local buyers do not get the grades of fruit they specify. This is, I am told, often brought about by over-selling grades of fruit overseas at low prices whereas local markets would return a higher price for the grade but buyers are often forced to accept grades not specified by them because the other grades are unavailable. This makes it difficult for manufacturers to produce a product which is consistent from year to year. No doubt this also builds up buyer resistance to dried fruits in Australia. The Government, of course, at the same time should look into the water rates which is a matter that is also causing growers a good deal of worry in the dried fruits industry. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a recommendation by the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce that there should be a meeting of top businessmen and union leaders with the Government not only to study a prices-incomes policy but also to explore other alternatives to boost the economy? If so, would he indicate to the House his reaction to this recommendation? 
0 der! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I have listened with interest to both the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser).  I do not wish to cross swords with my friend, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. This, I understand, is a matter on which there is to be a free vote, and as a member of the Privileges Committee he is entitled to express his own views in his own way and to vote accordingly. All I say is that I do not agree with some of the terms and expressions mat be has used. I believe, for example, that there is no accused before a privileges committee. It is not a star chamber, nor are the methods adopted in any way comparable to those of a star chamber. It is not even a court of law. It does not pretend to function as a court of law. It is nothing more or less than a committee of this House appointed to do a particular job - in other words, to carry out an inquiry upon a matter referred to it by the House as part of the ordinary procedure of this place. 
This is an unusual report and it arose from very unusual circumstances. The Committee carefully and thoroughly investigated the matter complained of, and to assist the House it was decided that cue whole of the evidence should bc attached to the report. This has not been clone before in this Parliament. The evidence is, as honourable members will have observed, shown as appendix III and is quite voluminous. There is no doubt in my mind that the writer of the article,  Mr Alan  Reid, believed his statement that 'a group of ALP parliamentarians walked out of the chamber when the quorum was called' to be correct. Not all information contained in newspaper articles is obtained first hand. This would just not be practicable.  Mr Reid  relied, as probably many other journalists do, on what he had heard. 
In his evidence before the Committee he indicated the sources of his information, but he could not give the names of the 2 journalists who had been in the Press Gallery and who told him that a group of members had walked out. The important fact, of course, is that a journalist has a responsibility with regard to the accuracy of what he writes concerning the proceedings of Parliament.  Mr Reid  is a very senior and experienced journalist of considerable standing.  His  Editor-in-Chief,  Mr McNicoll,  had no hesitation whatever in accepting as true and accurate what  Mr Reid  wrote in his article. Nor did  Mr McNicoll  have any hesitation in accepting responsibility for its publication. However, the evidence given before the Committee by a number of very responsible witnesses does not support the allegations contained in  Mr Reid's  article. 
In my view, the ultimate finding was the correct one on the evidence. At page 140 to 144 of Erskine May's 'Parliamentary Practice', Eighteenth Edition, 'constructive contempts' are set out clearly and explicitly. On the evidence given there is no doubt in my mind that the writing and publication of the article fall into this category. There are 2 particular aspects of this inquiry which are extremely unusual and on which I should comment. The first which, as the report indicates, was viewed very seriously by the Committee, was the premature disclosure of part of the proceedings. May deals on pages 142 and 143 with 'premature publication or disclosure of a committee's proceedings or evidence', and says that this in itself constitutes a breach of privilege or a contempt of the Parliament. In my experience, this has never happened before in a House of Representatives privilege inquiry, and nobody regrets more than I do that it happened on this occasion. 
The Committee also viewed seriously  Mr McNicoll's  refusal to disclose the 3 sources from which he had heard that there had been a finding favourable to  Mr Reid  but that the finding had later been reversed. What  Mr McNicoll  heard was, of course, correct. So there was clearly a premature disclosure. This brings me to the other unusual aspect of the case, that is, the recommittal and subsequent reversal of the original finding. The report draws attention to the fact that on each of the main votes the decisions were arrived at by an extremely narrow majority. This is one reason why the committee decided to append the evidence in full, so that the House could see clearly for itself what the position was. As the  Chairman  of the Committee 1 endeavoured always to fix meeting times to suit most, if not all, of the members of the Committee. But when the time came, there were occasions when some members found unexpectedly that they were unable to attend. 
It has been suggested by my friend the. honourable member for Eden-Monaro, and one or 2 others whom I have heard, that having made the original finding, the Committee's work should have finished there. I for one do not accept that. 1 believe that the Committee's job ends when the Chairman's draft report is approved down to the last detail. On this occasion, al the request of the Committee, 1 prepared a second draft report. Only when this was finally approved by the Committee for presentation to the House was the Committee's task completed. The Committee of Privileges does not, of course, observe any judicial forms, but as  Chairman  I have always endeavoured to preserve an atmosphere of calmness and objectivity throughout the whole proceedings and to exclude political considerations. 
The Committee was greatly helped by the Acting  Clerk  of the House,  Mr Pettifer,  and his paper dated 13th September 1971 is attached as Appendix II. I draw the attention of the House to pages 3 and 4 of  Mr Pettifer's  paper setting out particular references in relation to the matter before the Committee, and also to page 5 and subsequent pages listing matters for determination by the Committee. I also bring to the notice of the House the synopsis of some recent cases of privilege, set out as an appendix at the end of  Mr Pettifer's  paper. Having regard to the unusual aspects of this case and to the fact that the ultimate finding was made only on the casting vote of the  Chairman  - that is myself - 1 feel personally that the motion moved tonight by the Leader of the House is reasonable and, in all the circumstances, would best serve the dignity of the House. After all, it is the dignity of the House and the rights of members with which the law of privilege is very largely concerned. As this is to be a free vote I intend to support the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the House. 
Finally, may I say that I am glad the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  regards it as 'proper and timely' that the Australian Parliament should establish its own privileges and that he has asked the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  to prepare a paper as a basis for discussion. A review of the whole question of parliamentary privilege is, I believe, overdue. I for one welcome the Prime Minister's move in this direction. Speaking in the House on 23rd August last the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  representing the Attorney-General in this House, said that the legal matters involved would need to be looked at in some depth. I look forward to taking part in a discussion on these matters in due course when they come before the House, as I have some  very definite views on them myself. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Has any review of taxation deductions allowable to co-operative companies under section 120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act been made during the last J financial years; if so, what was the result. 
What has been the loss in revenue to the 
Commonwealth as a result of section 120 of the 
Income Tax Assessment Act during each of the last 5 financial years. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="076131197202244_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

Any effect of higher prices on consumption levels would in turn affect above tonnage quantities. 
The honourable member for Dawson also mentioned the determined efforts of the industry to try to reverse market trends and diversify production. 1 seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard figures from 1964-65 to 1970-71 showing statistically the trends away from our. dependence on Great Britain as an export market. 
leave is granted. Is leave granted? There being no objection, (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="076131197202244_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

Probably no speech on this subject would be complete, without mention of the problem of pioneer industry status as it affects joint enterprises in the majority of Asian developing countries. By and large they tended to remit taxation and import duties to encourage the establishment of industries in those areas. The period in which these concessions apply varied markedly from one nation to another. For instance, although our plant in Manila has been established for about 2 years, our concessions have ended but I believe it is true to say that we are competitive without any particular advantage from that source. Some years ago I had the opportunity of seeing the establishment of the plants in Singapore and Thailand. In those early years concessions were granted. The advantage we enjoyed from those concessions has now gone but suddenly we find that we are in a competitive position as a result of the loss of those concessions which were granted under what was a pioneer industry scheme. For the first time, we have a problem with prices. At present, the Dairy Board is negotiating with the Parliaments in 'hose areas to try to overcome this problem. In simple words, what, it means is that whereas from 1965 until the present there were estimated earnings of $9,219,000, for the first time we have a situation where some of these plants are not making a profit for the parent company in Hong Kong. It is to be hoped that the Board will be able to overcome the problem and rationalise the situation. The main difficulty is that Asian countries are not able to comprehend that prices for dairy goods have increased on world markets and that, although we have operated with some concessions in those areas, we have a valid case to increase prices. This, in a nutshell, is the problem that exists today. 
Perhaps 1 can conclude my remarks by reminding the House that Asian countries, like all developing countries, want industry. The Australian Dairy Board was almost a pioneer in the field of joint ventures. It provided investment and through that investment, industry for those developing countries. It has been because of great co-operation between those nations and the Australian people that these joint ventures have been established. The goodwill gained undoubtedly has resulted in a sales advantage for Australia. For instance, in Phnom Penh we have virtually no competition - we have almost 100 per cent of the market. In other areas, our share of the market has risen during the last 5 to 6 years from 5 per cent to 60 per cent and, in one instance, 'o 80 per cent of the total market today. So, in co-operation with those nations we have established a commercial advantage over goods of a similar nature that have to be imported. It has been a most far-sighted scheme and one for which the Dairy Board and the Government, with its backing for this project through the Reserve Bank, can take much credit. Condensed milk is almost a staple diet in some countries today and through these milk processing plants and our exports of butler oil. and skim milk we have been able, with the use of local sugar supplies, to provide a first class quality article for the benefit not only of 'hose countries which are looking for industry but also of our primary producers. 
I call the Minister for Supply. 
I want to say in review: It is clear that the Labor Party has no economic policy, but it does have a full socialistic plan, and a leading member of the Opposition, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  - and I believe him to he a dedicated socialist - recently had incorporated in Hansard the economic plan which is to be found in the recently ratified 'Platform and Principles of the Australian Labor Party'. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts in his capacity as the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. In view of the importance of the tourist industry to the Australian economy, will the Minister indicate what steps are currently being taken to encourage a greater flow of tourists from other parts of the world? Are maximum incentives being  offered to assist the tourist industry and are the attractions that this country has to offer being publicised as widely as possible throughout the other continents? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 call the honourable member for Wakefield. Order! The honourable member for Riverina will restrain himself and cease talking. 

Under standing order 64 the honourable member has obtained leave from the Chair to' explain matters of a personal nature. I have pointed out to the honourable member for Sturt that he may not debate the matter, but he may explain where he has been personally misrepresented on matters of a personal nature. 
No Member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member  thereof, against any member of the Judiciary, or against any statute unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal. 
Standing order 76 states: 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
Standing order 77 states: 
When any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a Member who is addressing the Chair or by a Member who is present, the  Speaker  shall intervene. 
This is the significant standing order: 
When the attention of the  Speaker  is drawn to words used, he shall determine whether or not they are offensive or disorderly. 
Sir,I draw your attention to the remark made by the Minister when he said:'I know that one honourable member of the Opposition engineered his entrance to this place largely by exploiting this issue' - that is, the issue of aged persons homes - 'against the real interests of the elderly people concerned'. Surely that is an imputation of improper motive and, under the terms of the Standing Orders, should be the subject of a request from you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the Minister in this case to withdraw the improper and offensive words. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I might point out that these objections should have been taken at an earlier point of time. I was not in the Chair or even in the chamber at the time. Under the rules of the House the points should have been raised earlier. May I revert to the point concerning the honourable member for Sturt. Didhe use the word unscrupulous' in relation to the Minister? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)  Order! I have asked the honourable member to withdraw the word. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
These Billsthe States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972 - which we are debating concurrently are a welcome step forward in the task of improving and strengthening our education system in Australia. They are an earnest of the Commonwealth's desire to assist government schools and also the independent schools which play a vitally important role in the fields of primary and secondary education, and many of which find themselves in an increasingly difficult financial situation. As will be recalled in the House, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced on 9th December last that further special assistance would be given to government and independent schools. Government schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are, of course, the direct respon sibility of the Commonwealth Government. Government schools in the various States are the constitutional responsibility of the individual State governments, each of which receives increasingly large sums annually from the Commonwealth Government. Of the total revenue of approximately $9,000m estimated to be received by the Commonwealth Government in the financial year 1971-72, almost one third is being paid to the States for various purposes, including education. Each State government has the right to determine its own priorities and it is clear from the records that most State governments give education a high priority. That is fortunate. 
Whether this would continue under a centralised system of education such as that advocated by the Australian Labor Party amendment in terms of setting up an Australian Schools Commission is, I believe, extremely doubtful. I think the odds are that under a centralised system such as that advocated by honourable members opposite the States would tend to give education a lower priority and this would indeed be most unfortunate for education in Australia. Government schools and independent schools are complementary and unless the independent schools remain viable an impossibly heavy burden would fall on the government schools and, indeed, the whole present system of primary and secondary education would break down. 
The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972 provides for payment of grants totalling $6. 66m to the States during 1971- 72 to assist with the construction and development of government primary and secondary schools. This represents a first instalment towards grants totalling $20m which the Commonwealth has announced will be paid to the States between now and 30th June 1973 to enable them to outlay additional capital funds on primary and secondary government schools. 
Each year the Commonwealth is making substantially increased amounts available for education in the States, both directly by way of scholarships, science blocks, libraries, teachers colleges and technical colleges, for research grants to universities and so on and also indirectly by way of increasing payments to the State governments. It should be recognised that the 78 per cent of enrolments at government schools attracts about 25 per cent of State revenue funds whereas 22 per cent of enrolments at independent schools attracts only about 1 per cent of these funds. It is clearly equitable that extra Commonwealth assistance should be given to the independent schools. 
The States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill 1972 amends the principal Act of 1969 and increases the rates of per capita grants from $35 to $50 per annum for each pupil receiving primary education and from $50 to $68 per annum for each pupil receiving a secondary education. These increases are in accordance with the promise made by the Prime Minister last December and take effect as from the commencement of the 1972 school year. 
It has been pointed out by the Prime Minister and also by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that increases in teachers' salaries in independent schools have risen more steeply in recent times by reason of various awards which have aimed at placing teachers in independent schools on comparable rates with teachers in government schools. As the Minister has also explained, the problems of the rural industries have added to the difficulty so far as boarding schools are concerned. 
There is fairly general agreement that the per capita grant basis, without any means test, is the appropriate form of aid with regard to recurrent expenditure in independent schools. Although there is some criticism of this method, the fact is that no practical alternative is in sight. I think everyone would agree that educational standards must be maintained at the highest possible level throughout the country and there is no doubt in my mind that the Government is doing the right thing in helping the independent schools to function as efficiently as possible, having regard to rising costs and growing enrolments 
It is easy enough, of course, for honourable members opposite, as they have done in this debate, to be critical. But as Disraeli once said, it is easier to be critical than to be correct. If one examines Australian Labor Party policy statements concerning an Australian Schools Commission one is struck by the number of apparently con flicting statements and the real policy is by no means clear. An Australian Schools Commission would undoubtedly be a centralist body which would tend to usurp the proper function of the States. It is quite obvious that there are still deep divisions within the Australian Labor Party on the question of State aid and the place of independent schools within the school system. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  speaking in this chamber on 2nd December 1971, made a statement concerning the Australian Schools Commission. At page 3983 of Hansard of 2nd December 1971 the Leader of the Opposition is reported as stating: 
The Minister purported to give the interpretation that the schools commission, for which the Labor Party has undertaken to establish, would give assistance to Government schools before it gave any to non-government schools. It is plain from the reading of the document that the form of assistance will be on the basis of the investigations made by this expert body and reported to the Parliament and to the public. 
A quite contrary statement emanated from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  who made it clear that, as he saw it, the Labor Party policy was aid to government schools first. Somewhere in between we have statements that were made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the Labor Party's shadow minister for education and science. The honourable member is reported in Hansard of 9th December 1971 as saying: 
However, I want to say something about this system of making per capita grants to private schools. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to devise in each State a Catholic education authority and an education authority for the other independent schools, to make a grant to them which may be calculated on a per capita basis and for them to be given the right to spend the money according to need. 
We have here an obvious conflict in relation to the interpretation by leading Labor Party spokesmen on Labor's policy on education and on how an Australian schools commission would operate. I believe that the Australian people are entitled to clarification of this. 
By contrast the Government's policy is perfectly clear. It is designed steadily to improve the standard of schools throughout Australia. The Government supports independent schools by making money available for both capital and recurrent purposes. In the allocation of capital funds certain standards are applied to decide on the entitlement of a particular independent school. This principle is followed in relation to science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. Only those schools that are able to establish an entitlement under these standards attract Commonwealth support. Priorities are determined by representatives of the various groups of independent schools. In the case of funds for recurrent expenditure, the Commonwealth Government and most of the State governments provide per capita payments for all children in primary and secondary schools without a means test of any sort. This method is supported by the Australian Parents Council and various other bodies in addition to most governments. 
Parents who, for one reason or another, choose to send their children to independent schools are entitled to expect governments to contribute directly to the cost of running those schools provided that the parents continue to accept a reasonable share of the cost themselves. After all, taxpaying parents contribute indirectly to the cost of maintarn 'ng government schools, even though their own children may be attending independent schools. An analysis of the records shows that the total financial support provided by the Commonwealth and State governments for capital and recurrent expenditure in relation to government schools is considerably more than the total financial support given to independent schools. In his statement to the House on 9th December 1971 the Prime Minister drew attention to the fact that the general financial assistance grants from the Commonwealth represented about one-half of the State's current budget expenditure and that on this basis the Commonwealth is supporting approximately one-half of the increased expenditure by the States on primary and secondary schools. 
The independent schools have received additional assistance from the States, but owing to the relatively greater increases in costs in independent schools than in government schools the Government has decided to increase the rates of the annual per capita grants to both primary and secondary schools throughout Australia. I am sure that these measures we are now debating and which give effect to the Prime Minister's promise of 9th December will be widely welcomed as a positive step not only towards maintaining the viability of independent schools as an integral part of our primary and secondary education system but also towards improving the quality of education in all States and also in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. The following passage in the Prime Minister's statement of 9th December 1971 indicates clearly the Commonwealth Government's continuing policy and participation in maintaining and improving our school system throughout the country: 
My Government will continue to co-operate with the States in measures both direct and indirect to expand and improve education services in government schools. Our policy for the independent schools is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, they should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in non-government schools. The action we are now taking is a further indication of our determination to assist those directly concerned to improve the standards in all types of schools. 
I have very much pleasure in supporting these 2 Bills. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in  both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
J present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in. the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details  of  alteration to the standards  of  service to the public are made available  to  Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department,  to  assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and  to  what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly  to  national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I refer the Treasurer to previous questions I have directed to him on the subject of taxation reform. I now ask whether he will indicate the progress that has been made with a review of the overall tax structure in Australia. How broad is the basis of the Government's approach? Is the review being carried out solely on a departmental basis or does the Government intend to hold an independent inquiry? 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
However, there are matters concerned with Australia's defence which ought to be brought to the notice of the Australian people. I do not bring them to the notice of the Australian people for political purposes. But we do have on the Government side one kind of approach and we do have in the Opposition another kind of approach. These differences ought to be pointed out dispassionately so that the Australian people as a whole can make a judgment on which approach should be accepted. Let me take first of all the approach on the question of national service. We have been told by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that if honourable members opposite were in government they would abolish national service. The honourable member has put forward arguments in support of that proposal. However, they are arguments which I personally do not accept, for the reasons which I now propose to advance. 
If we are to be able to support our own base in Australia and to give support against attack to allies in our region or to other countries in our region, I think we need to have an army of at least 40,000. I believe that we need to have behind that army good, fully and properly trained reserves. It has not been shown, in spite of increases in all kinds of remuneration for the armed Services, that we can attract an army of that size if we do not have national service to augment the volunteers. Since that has not been shown, I believe that if it is true that we need an army of this size - I think we do - the only way that we can attain it is by national service. But this is not the only advantage that national service gives. Certainly it provides us wth an army of the size that we want at a particular time, but the Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out to us that 12,000 national servicemen were called up each year. I think that was the figure he mentioned. Surely if we continue national service we have not only an army of 40,000 at any given time but also, after 3 years, 36,000 people who have been through national service, who have been fully trained and who can be called up immediately if an emergency arises, with a requiremen for very little additional training. In effect this virtually doubles our capacity to have armed Services available. 
All this has been forgotten by those academics and others who write in newspapers about the great cost of continuing national service because so many people are used in training them and because they serve for 18 months only and then go out of the Army. This is regarded as a great waste of money. But there has never been from these academics a reply to the proposition that I put forward now, namely, that sure we have to pay the people who train them and sure national servicemen are there for 18 months only, but that also, immediately an emergency arises, we have an army of twice the size that otherwise we would have had. This is absolutely the real benefit, cause and objective of national service training and something that I think the Australian public would relinquish at its peril. 
I have seen polls suggesting that national service is unpopular and therefore that I am advocating an unpopular view. But I think it is unpopular because it is not properly understood. Therefore, I think we should make quite clear this basic difference between ourselves and members of the Opposition, who would abolish national service. They would have in the Army volunteers only - presumably, year by year, aging volunteers- who would be there for 10 or 12 years, or for however long it may be; whereas we would have a continually young army because of the intake and a continually young group of trained people who could be called up immediately when they were required. This should not be forgotten because it is a basic difference between ourselves and the Opposition in our defence approaches. I believe that we cannot properly fulfil our requirements to defend Australia and to send expeditionary forces to help Indonesia, to help Singapore or to help Malaysia unless we have national service training and the volunteers who are available. The Citizen Military Forces cannot fulfil this role because they are not trained in the way that the last 3 years intakes of people who have served 18 months in the armed forces are trained and who can be called up immediately. This is significant to Australia's defence. 
There is another great difference between us and this, too, should be well known to the Australian people, and that is the different approach to the ANZUS 
Treaty which the Government makes and which the Opposition makes. I do not overrate the importance of the ANZUS Treaty but I do think that as it stands at present it is a key matter in Australia's defence. We do need to have an assurance, as far as we can have an assurance, that the United States will stand behind us if we are attacked by a major power because, by ourselves, we cannot repell a major power. I know, and we should all know, that the ANZUS Treaty has some limitations - that it applies only to the Australian mainland, but all the Australian mainland whether in the Pacific Ocean or in the Indian Ocean. I know that it applies only to the Australian Mainland and to nowhere else and I know that it could be brought into operation only in accordance with the constitutional processes of the United States of America on the one hand and Australia on the other and that it is possible to imagine that in the event of an attack on Australia the Congress of the United States might, under its constitutional processes, say: Well, neverheless, in spite of the fact that this has happened we are not going to support the  President  in his support'. 
Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 

Is it the wish of the House to have the question on the Minister's motion divided as suggested by the Minister? There being no objection, that course will be followed. The question is: 
That recommendations Nos 1 to 6 of paragraph (a) relating to Assistant Ministers be agreed to. 
I was wondering at what point I would ask for leave to move for the suspension of Standing Orders so that that amendment could be considered. Would this be the appropriate time to ask for leave to suspend' Standing Orders? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am not quite clear about what we are discussing. Are we speaking to the recommendation contained in the report of the Standing Orders Committee or is the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  moving a separate motion? 
As a member of the Standing Orders Committee I would like to make a contribution to this debate. I found myself in  a  minority on the Committee with regard to the point of view on the length of time that should be allowed to be taken up in a debate on the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders of the House. The old standing order - standing order 91  -  provides in regard to a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders that the mover is allowed 20 minutes and other honourable members are each allowed15 minutes. Under this procedure we have found time and time again - particularly during the last year or two - that a very substantial amount of the day's time has been taken up simply on a debate on this particular motion. 
I make the further point that in such a debate honourable members frequently stray on to a discussion of a substantive motion. It is a very difficult thing to speak for15 minutes, let alone 20 minutes, on a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders without trespassing onto a substantive motion. I think that there is a very powerful set of reasons for cutting down the speaking time quite drastically. I would have liked  a  further reduction of the 25 minutes that is proposed in this report. It is suggested that the mover be allowed 10 minutes, the seconder - if any - be allowed 5 minutes and the next member speaking be allowed 10 minutes. That is a total of 25 minutes which in fact is the total amount of time proposed to be allotted for a debate of this kind. It is further proposed that any other honourable member should be able to speak for5 minutes. I believe that 5 minutes for any speaker, be he mover, seconder or a following speaker, is adequate time for a speech on a debate of this kind. 
I submit that an unjustifiable amount of the time of this House has been taken up in recent months in debates on motions for the suspension of Standing Orders. During 1970 the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders was moved 17 times; during 1971 it was moved 35 times. Paragraph 21 of the report states: 
During previous Parliaments similar action was taken only on infrequent occasions and presented no real problem. 
So my main point is that I believe that the proposal contained in the report should be supported although personally I would have liked to see a further reduction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Speaking again as a member of the Standing Orders Committee, I had quite a bit to do with the presentation of this submission which relates to petitions. In common, I think, with all honourable members of this chamber, I have felt growing concern over the amount of time in the daily programme taken up in following the existing procedure for the presentation of petitions. The first consideration of the Standing Orders Committee was, quite correctly, the fundamental right of the citizen to petition Parliament. This is clearly set out in May's Parliamentary Practice and, of course, it was the first consideration that Committee members had in their minds at the time. We considered a number of alternative methods and settled upon the proposals that are now before the House. We felt that it was very important not only that the rights of the citizen should be protected but also that the rights of a honourable member to be identified with a petition should be protected. In addition we decided that the subject matter should be indicated and that a record should be made in Hansard as well as in the Votes and Proceedings of the House. 
The increasing amount of time that has been taken up by the present procedure is indicated in appendix B of the report. It shows that the total time taken up by petitions in 1970 was 8 hours 31 minutes and that in 1971 it was 8 hours 58 minutes. From the rate of presentation this year I would hazard a guess that the amount of time taken up by petitions will greatly exceed that of previous years, if the rate of presentation continues. Appendix B shows that in 1969  -  and I quote this figure to show the extreme growth in the number of petitions presented  -  90 petitions were presented. In 1970 494 were presented and in 1971 the number was 723. The number presented in 1972 will undoubtedly outstrip the 1971 record. I cannot go along with the suggestion in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  There may be some occasions when a Minister might not be able to report back within 21 sitting days if the petition raises a very involved matter requiring a good deal of consideration and research. For that reason I find myself not in a position to support the amendment However, I do feel that the Committee has made a valuable step forward by submitting to the House that it should agree that a petition presented in future should be referred to the appropriate Minister for his consideration. 
The question now is, "That recommendation No.  8  of paragraph (a) relating to petitions be agreed to'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for 
Labour and National Service whether there has been any improvement in the rate of productivity growth, in view of the importance of increasing productivity in order to win the battle against inflation? 
 I find myself pretty much in sympathy with what the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  has just said.  His  logic is difficult to fault. It is quite true, as he said, that the almost inevitable result of adopting this amendment - attractive as it is on the face of it - would be to increase the adjournment debate by one hour.  His  second point was that we have to legislate some time. We cannot contradict those 2 points. We must accept them. I feel that, if we were to accept this amendment, we would be more or less out of the frying pan into the fire. Nobody feels more strongly than I do about the Jong hours. I think we are all pretty much of the same mind on this. 
I feel that there is a case to be made for the Parliament sitting more days and for shorter hours, but I do not think that the way the honourable member for Wills has suggested is the right way of going about it. I would like to revert to a suggestion that I put quite some time ago to the Standing Orders Committee but which, unfortunately, was not accepted. It may be appropriate for the Standing Orders Committee to have another look at it some time. The proposition related to an automatic adjournment - not an adjournment at 10 o'clock and then an adjournment debate, but a final finishing time for the House actually to rise. I based my proposition on the procedure as I understood it at that time - as far as I know it is still in operation - in the House of Commons at Westminster where at 10 o'clock the motion for the adjournment is put, speakers are allowed 5 minutes each and then at 10.30 p.m. the  Speaker  leaves the chamber and so the business is finished. The House closes down at 10.30 p.m. That is how I visualise an automatic adjournment. I think that the effect of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills would be that we would still be having late hours but, instead of debating Government business between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. or between 10 p.m. and midnight, we would be debating on the adjournment. I do not see that this would be an improvement. 
I am in favour of rising earlier if it can be arranged but  1  do not think that the honourable member's proposition would achieve the end that he has in his mind. What the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has said in relation to honourable members being tired is quite true. I am sure that most of us are very ready to accept the medical advice on this point. I am certain that our efficiency is impaired through fatigue. I am sure that plane travel and late nights impair the efficiency not only of honourable members but also of the staff and everybody concerned. I am sure that this is right. My main point is that, while I accept in general spirit, the idea behind the motion moved by the honourable member for Wills, I do not think that this is the right way of going about it. I would prefer that the matter be referred again to the Standing Orders Committee at its next session, with a request that the Committee have a fresh look at the whole question of an automatic adjournment of the House. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry a question in relation to a report that exports exceeded imports by $270. Im during the first half of the present financial year. Can he inform the House whether this rate of improvement has been maintained in recent months? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I ask him whether he can indicate when he expects to be in a position to announce the terms of reference and the personnel of the committee that is to examine and report on the tax structure. 
Is the motion seconded? 
We are proposing an independent committee of inquiry. This should appeal to the Government, because we have heard the Minister say that he deplores the tendency for politics to be brought into this discussion about people in need. The assumption seems to be that anyone who raises the case on behalf of those in need must be politically motivated. It never occurs to the Minister that people can have humane considerations. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  for instance, has lived in such an area for 40 years. Some honourable members on this side of the House have lived in such areas for much of their lives and know only too well what it is like to be deprived and not only to suffer the financial deprivation which is part and parcel of relative poverty in the Australian community but to know before one has progressed very far in life that socially and culturally one will be disadvantaged and that the greatest aspirations that one can reach out for are fairly limited. We propose that there ought to be a committee of inquiry. We challenge the Government to support it. The Government will be measured for its worth according to whether it supports or opposes this proposal. 
I remind the Minister that on 22nd February 1971 in this House every honourable member on the Government side objected to a matter of public importance, as presented by members of the Opposition after being raised by myself, proposing improvements in social service benefits so that noone receiving these benefits would have payment rate below the poverty level. I then took the opportunity of moving the suspension of Standing Orders so that we could put this to a test by voting on this proposition, because as the House knows, as perhaps the public are not aware, we cannot vote on issues brought forward as matters of public importance. The only way we can really test the sense of responsibility of the Government in relation to issues raised as matters of public importance is to move for the suspension of Standing Orders. If honourable members on the Government side support my motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, it means that we can then put our motion calling for a committee of inquiry before the House, and if they vote for that motion it means that an independent committee of inquiry into poverty in Australia will be set up. This is something which has been long overdue. But no doubt they will vote against this proposal as they voted against proposals at the beginning of 1971 moved by the Opposition suggesting that no-one should have to live below the poverty level. The standard rate or single rate of pension is more than $5 a week below the poverty level. We have the incredible situation in which a man on unemployment or sickness benefits in the 
State of Queensland, if he has a wife and 6 children, is $4 a week better off than he would be on the minimum award rate working for a local authority on works financed with relief money provided to overcome unemployment, but still $12.60 below the poverty level. 
Order! I think the honourable member should come back to the Bill. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to an announcement made last January with regard to the establishment of a coastal surveillance service to be co-ordinated by the Department of Shipping and Transport. I ask the Minister: What progress has been made to date in this direction? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I ask the Minister whether the further diversification of Australian trade is proceeding satisfactorily in anticipation of Britain's entry to the European Economic Community. 
 I ask the Treasurer: When does he expect to announce the personnel of the committee which is to review the overall tax structure of the Commonwealth? 
MrSNEDDEN - The answer is: As soon as possible. I have given very great consideration to the possible personnel. I have every hope that it will not be too long before a decision is made. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. Will the Minister confirm or deny the accuracy of reports that some of the American tracking stations are shortly to be closed? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Will he, in the interest of economy, both of time and money, confer with his colleague in another place with a view to allowing members of the medical profession to prescribe larger quantities of approved drugs for chronically ill patients? 

Order! 1 have already warned the honourable member for Blaxland. This is the final warning I will give, if he interjects again I will name him without any hesitation. 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be suspended from the service of the House. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
A most enviable standard of living has been built up in this country and this is a firm basis from which we can reach higher yet. This Budget will create much stimulation in an economy which is very strong but which has excellent capacity for expansion. It is a confident Budget based on sound economics to provide confidence - that 'will o' the wisp' - to allow Australians to progress at a faster rate than they have been prepared to do in the immediate past. The future will not be without its difficulties, but Australia can move ahead in the immediate knowledge of improving world and domestic conditions, leaving behind a rougher section of the way to responsible government, and real betterment of Australia's way of life. Just as the Gov ernment has taken measures to stimulate demand, to reduce unemployment and at the same time to decrease the rate of inflation - measures which I took the opportunity to list the other night - it is time, too, for the trade union movement to play its part by recognising the need for a moratorium on wage rises and restraint or even opposition to excessive wage rises as a matter of its policy. 
Anybody who has travelled overseas or read widely knows what a great country we live in. I have no doubt that this Government, working vigorously in every area and being realistic and pragmatic in the correct sense of those words, is the one which can best achieve the national objectives and aspirations of Australians. I am certain that this country will be much greater yet - in its contribution to our region, in being a force for good in the world, and in encouraging our citizens to be better and to lead more satisfying lives. 
In recent years there has been a dramatic development in our export trade, mineral development and secondary industry as well as in the avenues and relationships in our world trade, and there has been a tremendous expansion and diversification of our financial system. I have no doubt that Australia, in the foreseeable future, will become a major exporter of iron, steel and aluminium. We will be a significant source for energy materials of all kinds - coal, gas and uranium - and their development will need expertise and finance on a scale at present little realised. With our diversified industrial base our powerful and diverse banking and financial systems our significance to the Western and other economies is growing dramatically. We have the resources and the power to become a very great nation - let us say one of the top dozen - and by striving we can obtain greater independence economically, socially and in other ways. There are no quick and easy solutions; we must work and work together as much as possible. Australians, and not just the Government, must work really to solve need at the roots of the problems. Australians, by their efforts, their directness and their naturalness of manner, can be a truly great people - even unique. Let us encourage the best in our people, not the worst. We have the capacity if we maintain the will. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development: I refer to the rapid development of Australia's natural resources in all fields and while recognising that national needs and progress should not be impeded, I ask the Minister whether he could give an assurance that attention is paid to conservation and preservation to the greatest degree possible. 
My question is supplementary to others already asked this morning and it is for the purpose of clarification. I ask the Prime Minister whether there has been any change in the Government's policy on revaluation. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  referred to co-operation and economic planning, but it is significant that neither he nor anyone else on the Opposition side of the chamber has attempted to reply to or rebut the charges made last night by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  in respect of what the Australian Labor Party's programme for Australia would be. They have not denied, for example, the Minister's charge that they would nationalise the banks, insurance companies, hire purchase companies and so on. They have not denied the Minister's charge that the Labor Party would wipe out all taxation deductions other than family allowances. In other words they would wipe out deductions for education, life assurance, medical allowances and expenses incurred in earning income. If this is to be denied, let us hear the denial. They have not denied the Minister's charge in relation to the radical resealing of income tax. The Minister said that the Australian Labor Party would radically rescale income tax so that it would be, in the words of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  a means of enforcing a restructuring of society. If that is not true, let them deny it. The Minister said also that businesses would be radically reconstructed. If that is not true, let it be denied by honourable members opposite. 
The honourable member for Adelaide referred to only one plank of the Australian Labor Party's platform under the heading of 'economic planning'. As I see it, quite frankly, it seems that honourable members opposite are deliberately avoiding reference to the unpopular planks under the heading of 'economic planning'. I have already referred to two of them. We seldom hear anything about the nationalisation plank except from the more frank and more outspoken members of the left wing of the Labor movement. Nor do we hear anything about what they would do in relation to the re-defining of 'income'. It is clearly set out under the heading of 'economic planning' that the Labor Party would re-define income'. As far as 1 know in the course of this debate nobody opposite has said anything about the Labor Party's plan to redefine 'income'. The purpose of that redefinition of 'income', if one analyses the Labor Party's platform, is that they clearly intend to impose a capital gains tax. This has been referred to on earlier occasions. If honourable members opposite want to deny the truth of what I am saying they have every opportunity to do so. 
It has been very disappointing indeed to hear another dreary denunciation of the Budget such as we just heard from the honourable member for Adelaide, rather than a constructive alternative conception. Surely that should be within the ability of the range of thinking of honourable members opposite who hold themselves out to be the alternative Government of Australia. They refer to growth but they put forward no plan for improving it. They refer to productivity but they put forward no plan for increasing productivity. They put forward no plan for containing inflation. These are very important matters for the economy. As the aspiring alternative Government, this is a golden opportunity for honourable members opposite to tell the people of Australia exactly what they would do to remedy the present situation and put things right, instead of roundly condemning the Budget presented by this Government. For the most part, they avoid reference to political strikes, despite the fact that some leading members of the labour movement have been, through political strikes, robbing Australians of some of their money, undermining the standard of living of the Australian people and adding to the unemployment pool, lt is true that the honourable member for Adelaide referred to unemployment. So did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and so have some other honourable members opposite. 
I know that what I am saying is hurting the honourable member and that he does not like listening to it. He has no solution to the unemployment problem. AH honourable members opposite do is weep crocodile tears and hope that the unemployment pool will grow larger because they see in it some political advantage for themselves. I leave the Australian Labor Party now and come back to the Budget. The 1972-73 Budget has been widely acclaimed throughout Australia, and rightly so. The Treasury White Paper published in July indicated the need to pump some $400m into the private sector of the economy in order to boost consumer demand and restore growth. I believe that the Budget will do this. Growth with stability is still the basic approach of the Government. It is undeniable, as the honourable member for Adelaide has pointed out, that the recent growth rate of 3 per cent is just not good enough, but let us find a solution to it. We have to approach this problem in a positive frame of mind. I do not think anyone would deny that this rate needs to be at least doubled to give real strength to the economy. 
Another worrying factor, of course, is inflation. It is not unique to Australia; it is common to many countries throughout the world. The only good feature about inflation at the moment, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out in his Bud-et Speech, is that there has been some decrease in the rate of the inflationary spiral in recent times. Let us hope that that trend will continue. Chapter 2 of the Treasury White Paper of July gives a detailed analysis of what is described as the intractable problem of inflation. It deals with the complex of factors involved and argues that the dominant exacerbating factor in Australia's recent experience has been excessive wage settlements. There is no doubt in the minds of many that this is correct. The position has been aggravated by a series of industrial stoppages which have caused loss and hardship to many thousands of families and have, as a result, retarded our economic development. 
I feel that the Institute of Public Affairs and the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia should be commended publicly for the excellent job they are doing in endeavouring to spotlight the need for higher productivity. An excellent little booklet entitled 'Better Living - the Key is Productivity', which was produced jointly by these 2 bodies, in my view should be read by every household in Australia. It points out that productivity - in other words, production per person - is important because our standards of living depend upon it; that only by raising productivity can the purchasing power of pay envelopes be increased, and that productivity is not rising rapidly enough compared with the growth of money incomes in Australia. In other words, the cost of production is rising too fast. Over recent years productivity has risen at approximately one-third of the rate of rises in salaries and wages, and one of our major aims economically must be steadily to close this gap. This does not simply mean that the employee should work harder. Let me be quite clear on this. As I see it, it means that management and labour must aim to produce more efficiently and to work more closely together for the common good. 
The continuing pressure for a 35-hour week, which is supported by honourable members opposite in their policies, means, if granted across the board, that the cost of production will continue to rise and our prospect of containing inflation will steadily become dimmer. The principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay is still an essential basis for a thriving, prosperous nation. We live in a keenly competitive world, and if we are to retain our place among the top 12 trading nations and maintain decent living standards we must ensure that our production costs do not rise faster than those of other countries with which we are competing. Bulletin No. 233, issued by the Australian Industries Development Association this month, strikes a hopeful note when it states: 
While many important areas of industrial production are still languishing, a closer analysis of the latest indicators does suggest that the overall trend in industrial activity may be turning upwards. 
It proceeds to give figures covering a wide range of commodities to demonstrate that during the period from January to June 1972 a greater number of items showed a rise in production and a smaller number of items showed a fall in production. Under the caption 'Recovery on the Way?' the bulletin continues: 
This analysis of recent production statistics, although admittedly based on relatively short term trends, does give some indication that industrial production may indeed be picking up and that the economy is showing a greater degree of confidence, along with some increase in consumer spending. 
Returning to the actual provisions of the Budget, I think we were all struck by the Treasurer's pithy summing up when he said: 
Taxes down; pensions up; and growth decisively strengthened. 
For the first time Commonwealth expenditure will reach - indeed exceed - $ 10,000m in a 12-month period. This is not, as alleged by honourable members opposite, a rich man's Budget. This can be clearly seen by anyone who reads it objectively and fairly. Virtually every section of the community will benefit from the proposals now before the House, with the greatest benefits going to those most in need of relief. 
Slightly more than one-third of the Commonwealth's estimated outlay in the current financial year will go to the State governments. I have said on other occasions, and I say again, that I believe that the States should be enabled to raise a higher proportion of their own revenues than they do at present. If it were not for a High Court ruling that sales tax is in the nature of an excise tax and therefore under section 90 of the Constitution must remain with the Commonwealth, I for one would favour the Commonwealth vacating this field of taxation in favour of the States. I am particularly pleased that the Government has decided to appoint an independent expert committee under  Mr 
Justice Asprey to inquire into and report on the overall tax structure within the Commonwealth's jurisdiction. This committee, needless to say, has a very big task ahead of it, and its report and recommendations will be awaited with great interest. In the meantime, as the Treasurer intimated last May, the Government has decided to make such adjustments as it considers necessary in the field of taxation. 
The incidence of Federal estate duty and Federal gift duty will be greatly reduced when this Budget takes effect. The proposal to double all statutory exemptions means that approximately half of all estates that would be subject to Federal estate duty will be exempt in future. There is no gainsaying that the present rates of death duties throughout Australia are too high and cause hardships to many families. Another pleasing provision of the Budget is the decision to allow a deduction for income tax purposes of up to $400 in respect of expenditure by a taxpayer on his own education where the expenditure is related to his career. This is something for which many of us have been pressing for quite some time, and it is indeed welcome. Most welcome of all is the proposal to reduce personal income tax rates by an average of 10 per cent. Present rates are most certainly too high and have been acting as a disincentive to many people. The plan to restructure the tax scale to ensure maximum percentage reductions on lower and middle incomes is, I believe, proper and equitable. In future those with a taxable income less than $1,041 will be exempt from income tax and, as the Treasurer pointed out in his Budget Speech, the proposal will exempt from tax liability altogether about 600,000 taxpayers - among them part time employees, including married women and students working in vacations. 
Income tax at present rates has been placing too heavy a burden on the family man, but under this Budget the family man will benefit very considerably in a variety of ways. Time will not permit me to mention all of them. Let me mention a few. All taxation allowances for dependants are to be increased by $52. Families throughout the country will be greatly helped by the provisions of this Budget not only in regard to taxation but in the whole field of social welfare. Increased financial assistance for education will he'p schools, technical colleges, teachers colleges, universities and colleges of advanced education. The very substantial increase in Commonwealth scholarships of all kinds will help many thousands of students. There are major improvements also in relation to health, housing, child care, social services and repatriation. 
The most spectacular feature of all, of course, is the Government's promise to abolish the means test within the next 3 years. It is right, I believe - I think we all are of one mind on this point - that this penalty on thrift should be removed as soon as possible and that, in the meantime, the application of the means test should be further liberalised. I remind the House that it has been Government policy for a number of years to liberalise the means test year by year. I believe it is also right and equitable to provide that pensions shall be subject to taxation, otherwise people on higher incomes would, as the Treasurer has said, benefit disproportionately and this would be unfair to everyone else. The Treasurer mentioned that the Government is currently reviewing policies in regard to capital inflow into Australia and I believe that this need for review is in line with the general feeling in the community. Most people, I think, agree that overseas capital is necessary for our national development but feel that appropriate steps should be taken to preserve an Australian equity. I am confident that the Government recognises this fully and that it will act accordingly. I oppose the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition and I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill now before the House. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! Ring the bells. (The bells being rung). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Hunter will come into the House. (A quorum being present). 

Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208313_99_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  referred to the disenchantment of certain people in relation to the Parliament. I believe it is true. I believe too that the answer lies mainly in our own hands in this place. Although not entirely, I believe it does to a considerable extent lie with us to improve the situation. Like previous speakers. I am intending tonight to make a few observations and to make, I hope some constructive suggestions as to ways in which we could help to make this chamber function more efficiently and more effectively. Before I do that 1 would like to recount briefly an experience I had last week. 1 was invited by Brisbane radio station 4BH to participate in one of i!s regular open line programmes, the subject to be discussed being privilege and members of Parliament. Rather unhappy com- i88w72--JJ- f431 parisons were drawn between the way members of this House require people outside it to appear before the Privileges Committee in respect of statements about members of Parliament, whereas members of Parliament under cover of privilege in the House sometimes make statements that are hurtful and disagreeable to people outside Parliament. I could expound on that subject to a considerable extent. All honourable members are aware that the Standing Orders provide that the conduct or character of a person outside Parliament must not be reflected upon at question time and can be approached only through a question placed on the notice paper. In that way the matter is not made known to nearly so many people as are matters raised at question time. 
My experience on the radio programme helped to bring home to me something that I have been hearing off and on in the last two or three years. I refer to the growing opinion in the community that the conduct and standards of this House have deteriorated in the last few years. Whether that is really true is hard for us as members to judge, but when one hears people outside Parliament making such comments it makes one take notice. When we are discussing the estimates for the Parliament for the next 12 months we are given an opportunity to have a good look at ourselves and at the institution of Parliament with a view to making constructive suggestions to improve the situation. 
We have an obligation to the nation. We are here as elected representatives of the people to play our part on the national stage. We all make mistakes, but if we all do our honest best in the interests of the nation I do not think anybody fairly could ask mor of us. It is our duty to maintain respect for the institution of Parliament. Parliament is an important part of our national heritage. I have said in previous debates of this nature, and I again say unhesitatingly, that Parliament is one of the 2 main bulwarks we have against tyranny in this country. The 2 main bulwarks of democracy and the freedom of the people to express themselves and to conduct themselves within the framework of the law are Parliament and the law courts. 
In this current session we are sitting extra hours in order to avoid the end of session rush that we all hate. We are doing our best to avoid one of the factors that in the past has helped to bring Parliament into disrepute. On occasions we have sat until the very small hours of the morning, even almost daybreak towards the end of a session. The Leader of the House and all honourable members are most anxious to avoid that situation. We do not earn any sympathy from anybody outside Parliament when we conduct the affairs of the nation in that fashion. The effort we are making in the current session by sitting longer each sitting day to avoid the usual end of session rush will be, I hope, productive. I am sure we all hope that. 
I wish to make a few short observations and suggestions about the way in which we as members might improve the efficiency of the Parliament. T remind honourable members, as a simple illustration, of one way in which in recent months we have improved the efficiency of the Parliament. On the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee the House some months ago agreed to revise the procedure for the handling of petitions from citizens of Australia. I believe that the new method has proved to be a success. It saves a good deal of time when the petitions are co-ordinated and read by the  Clerk  at the table. As we all know, the  Clerk  indicates the member who has presented each petition. In that way it is not necessary to have members rising one after the other and taking from 15 to 20 minutes of the first part of each sitting day to present petitions, many of which are the same as petitions presented earlier. By that important move we have saved time and, after all, it is the nation's time. 
I believe that we could all exercise a little more restraint in certain other areas. One that comes to mind concerns the raising of matters of public importance. I do not want to be party political on this matter. I would be among the very last in this place who would want in any way to cut down, truncate or minimise the rights of members. I am simply suggesting that we should all consider that this is one way in which we might save some time of the House. The matter does not arise while we are debating the Budget because members can raise any matter at all in the debate on the Budget, but during other sittings we have had upwards of 2 hours debate on matters that have been said to be matters of urgent public importance but that very often could have been raised in the debate on the motion to adjourn the House instead of taking up valuable debating time earlier in the day. If an important measure is awaiting debate it seems to me that on balance it should have priority unless a matter has arisen which is genuinely of urgent national public importance and must be debated that day. 
I turn now to motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. By reducing the time allowed for speeches on such motions we have taken a step in the right direction. We have not spent as much time in this session on such motion as we did in the previous session. With reference to standing order 91 I believe that we could all exercise more self-discipline. That applies to me as much as it does to other members. Often we keep an eye on the clock and even though we have made our main points, if a few minutes remain to us we follow the human tendency ' to keep on talking for our allotted time notwithstanding that we are repeating ourselves and not raising fresh points. Self discipline in that direction would be to the advantage of the House. 
As all honourable members are aware, question time has deteriorated considerably. In many instances questions and answers are too long. Some questions are much too involved for Ministers to answer at question time. Quite frequently questions are asked at question time that ought to be placed on the notice paper. That is another way in which we could improve the procedures of the Parliament. I think we would all be repaid by rereading standing orders 142-153 and chapter 14 at pages 15-18 of the book called 'A Short Description of the Business and Procedures of the House of Representatives' written by the  Clerk.  I am not excusing myself from any of these charges. I believe that we are all guilty to a greater or lesser degree. 
I am not referring to anyone in particular. If any honourable member sees himself with a halo around his head, good luck to him, but if most of us are honest with ourselves we will admit that we could improve the efficiency of the Parliament by imposing a little more self discipline. My final point relates to points of order, or so-called points of order, which are constantly being raised. They are not really points of order. As a  deputy chairman  I have had some experience of this matter. It has come to my notice very forcibly. Howadays there is a tendency for members on both sides of the House to raise points of order that really are not points of order at all. I invite the attention of honourable members to May's 'Parliamentary Practice', which is the Parliamentary bible. 
The honourable member who interjects is one of the chief offenders in this place in breaching Standing Orders. i suggest that he listen to me and apply his mind to improving the efficiency of this House. The interjection of the honourable member for Sturt illustrates the point I am trying to make. A point of order relates only to matters of business before the House and must pertain to Standing Orders. This provision has been abused quite frequently by some honouable members. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order) The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. Will the poverty inquiry being conducted by Professor Henderson be confined to monetary poverty or can non-monetary factors be raised and taken into account? Is there any substance in the criticism made in this respect by the Leader of the Opposition? 

The question is: 'That the question be now put'. Those in favour say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. I think the ayes have it. 

It is outside the hands of the Chair. The motion has been put and it now has to be voted on by the House. 

<graphic href="080131197209136_91_6_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209136_91_6_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209136_91_6_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Beazley's)  be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Do the current unemployment figures and the recent projections by W. D. Scott and Co. for the next financial year give any support to the gloomy predictions of several honourable members opposite for the months ahead? 

Order! I must ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the Bill. 
The honourable member for Reid spoke of interest on loans over a 25-year term, but he did not mention that loans could be available at less than 8 per cent interest. 1 think the rate on loans from the permanent building societies is 7i per cent or 7i per cent. We must remember that interest is an ingredient of our economic position. People who got loans in 1963 and 1964 were then receiving about $45 to $50 a week. But now they are in the $80 or $90 a week bracket. I wanted to reply to the honourable member for Reid. I should like to assist him. I have had huge experience in regard to this matter. As a bank manager I had the great joy and privilege of financing the construction of more than 2,000 homes from the foundation to the roof. So when I speak I do so from practical experience. I had the great joy of knowing that the people who were building their own homes saved £600 to £800 on what they would have had to pay to what we call a spec builder. 1 want now to continue the address 1 bad prepared prior to the speech of the honourable member for Reid. I welcome the Bill which is a direct result of the progressive policies on welfare that were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget last month. The Bill is designed to increase the maximum homes savings grant and to substantially liberalise the conditions of the grant so that more of our young people who are obtaining their own homes will benefit from this most generous scheme. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  gave a detailed explanation of the purposes of the Bill. I do not want to take up the time of the House by going over the same ground as the Minister or for that matter over the same ground as the Treasurer traversed in his Budget speech, but as the Secretary of the Government member's housing committee and as the representative of an electorate in which there are many people eligible for the housing grant, I want to say a few words about the homes savings grant scheme in general and in particular and about the benefits that it brings to our young people who want to buy homes. 
I sincerely hope that when the history of the Liberal-Country Party Government since 1949 is written in the years to come, considerable attention will be given to the wonderful record of the successive LiberalCountry Party Governments in regard to housing and ensuring that Australia has a high level of home ownership and a high rate of housing construction. Earlier this year it was my privilege to represent the Minister for Housing at a building society conference in Tasmania. At that conference it was made quite clear to me how valuable the people in the housing industry regard the homes savings grant scheme. Those people also indicated to me that the conditions of the scheme should be liberalised by increasing the basic grant above the present maximum level of $500 and by increasing the maximum value of a home for the purposes of the grant above the present level of $17,500. They supported the scheme wholeheartedly but thought that the opportunity should be taken to make it more generous and to update it to meet the needs of our young home owners in 1972 and beyond. I must confess that i was impressed by the sincerity with which they expressed their views on the homes savings grant scheme. 
In addition I have had a number of representations from young people in my area in regard to the scheme. With the rising costs of land and home construction in the Sydney area, particularly in the western suburbs, many people have been ineligible for the grant because the value of their home exceeded the $17,500 maximum which presently applies. I am certain that the Minister has had approaches made to him from many other honourable members about this matter. I therefore want to congratulate him and the Government on their positive and helpful action which forms the basis of this Bill which the House is now considering. The maximum grant - and it is a grant, and a tax free grant at that - is to be increased by 50 per cent to $750. Surely no honourable member in this House would oppose this positive measure. It will be of tremendous assistance to many young home owners throughout the country. 
In addition, the Government is to increase by $5,000 the maximum value of a home which can attract a homes savings grant, that is, from $17,500 to $22,500. This provision will enable many more young couples who are obtaining their own home for the first time to receive the grant, which also is increased in this Bill. Whilst I regret that rising home costs occur in our country, as no doubt they do throughout the world, I commend the Government for taking positive steps to ensure that people who are forced to pay more for their homes are not disadvantaged or precluded from the homes savings grant scheme. From what the Minister said when he introduced the Bill a few weeks ago, the limit on the amount of savings in any one year in order to qualify for a grant will be increased from $600 to $900. This is a logical step and follows the decision to increase the value of the grant. 
I do not want to detain the Parliament unduly but I think we would all benefit from an understanding of the great success which underlines the operation of the homes savings grant scheme since it was introduced more than 8 years ago. According to the latest figures that are available, more than $11 Om has been made available up to the present time in the form of interest free and tax free grants to young couples in every State and Territory of Australia. Since 1964 more than 255,000 young couples, or more than half a million husbands and wives, have received these grants. In New South Wales alone more than §3 6m has been paid out to young couples in that time. I believe that this is a unique scheme which has received wide acceptance from the young people who benefit directly from it and from the many sections of the housing industry which indirectly benefit from it. 
I do not think we can do too much as a Parliament to help young people acquire their own homes. It is through the home environment, through better housing and the obtaining of housing soon after marriage that we can assist families in this country to stay together. The family unit is of crucial importance to our future as a nation. It can best be preserved by maintaining a high rate of home ownership and by assisting our young married couples and their families to save for their own homes and to acquire homes as soon as possible. Home ownership is no longer a luxury; it is a necessity for many of our people and it is the right of all families. We have a high rate of home ownership but we must continue to ensure that this rate is maintained and, if possible, increased. The homes savings grant scheme is just one means whereby the Government assists in this field. The Commonwealth and States housing arrangements under which the Federal Government makes available funds to the States at a low rate of interest for welfare housing works is another. For many Vietnam veterans, there is the war service homes scheme. 
The homes savings grant scheme is unique. It is an incentive and a reward - and a fairly generous one at that - for saving for a home. This Bill extends the generosity and liberalises the conditions so that even more young people than now benefit from it will benefit in the future. As the Minister also indicated, the conditions relating to savings in credit unions being considered for homes savings grants also are liberalised in this Bill. This has been done with the complete approval of the leaders of the credit union movement throughout this country. I know for a fact that this is the case in the electorate of Mitchell. This is a positive step. It is a recognition of the very useful and valuable role that credit unions are playing in helping young people to acquire their own homes. The conditions will be so liberal that just about all credit union savings and lendings will be able to be taken into account under the homes savings grant scheme. The only requirement will be that not less than 20 per cent of the annual lending of a credit union to its members should be for housing loan purposes. That is fair enough. It is a move that will encourage credit unions to lend for housing and a move that will not disadvantage young people who put their savings in credit unions. 
I suppose that the growth of the credit union movement in recent years has been one of the most interesting aspects of finance development in this country. Right around the country credit unions are performing a valuable service for their members in many fields, including housing. I am certain therefore that the action which has been taken in regard to credit unions in this Bill will be very welcome. This is a Budget Bill which gives legislative effect to promises that were announced in the Budget. The Parliament should waste little time in passing this Bill so that the benefits contained in it can be passed on to home buyers. I support the Bill and congratulate the Minister on its introduction; but I suggest to the Minister that there should be more publicity given to the scheme and more information about it made available to the young people because several young couples have missed out on a grant through technicalities. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The difficulty in home ownership is, as the honourable member for Reid stated, the high cost of land. But dollar for dollar, people are getting better value in the erection of new homes, and the Housing Commission of New South Wales is supplying much better homes - better erected, with better amenities, better style and better set out. The unfortunate high cost of land could be overcome in the near future only by some system that would be foreign to this Government. It is unfortunate that the New South Wales State Planning Authority, which I worked very hard to have abolished, was not abolished, because had it been abolished when I worked for its abolition we would not now have the spectacle of high land values in New South Wales. 
As it is now past the time provided for the Grievance Debate, order of the day No. 1 will not be called on. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Health. Has the Acting Minister noted criticism, arising out of the tabling of the annual report of the 
Director-General of Health, of the increasing cost of the national health scheme? Do the facts justify that criticism? 
I would like firstly to express appreciation as I am sure we are all appreciative, to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Department for the trouble they have taken in preparing for our use explanations of the estimates for that Department for 1972-73 in which they have dealt item by item with the whole of the estimates. This is an invaluable help to honourable members in examining the estimates for the current year. The estimates for 1972-73 show progress in all aspects of the Commonwealth's role in education. The departmental report for 1971, which was recently tabled, demonstrated clearly the increasing participation of the Commonwealth in the field of education and science. The increased expenditure proposed for the current financial year will enable continuous improvement in the quality and availability of education throughout Australia. I believe that it is not sufficiently recognised in the community that the Commonwealth provides the major part of the current revenues of the States. Direct expenditure by the Commonwealth on education this financial year will go up by $72m to a total of $426m. In addition to general financial assistance, specific payments to the States for education are estimated to increase this year by $44m to a total of $250m. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  pointed out, additional payments to the States, including capital grants for school construction, secondary school science laboratories and libraries, technical colleges and teachers colleges, and per capita grants for independent schools, will go up by $30m to an estimated total of $1 12m. 
A sum of $1 38m has been allocated to universities and colleges of advanced education. The allocation to the University of Queensland, if I may refer to my own State for a moment, is not as great as had been hoped for in the next triennium. Nevertheless, I understand that every effort will he made to maintain the steady improvement that has been made during the last couple of years. I do not consider it fair or desirable that the University of Queensland should suffer financially in any way because of the development of Griffith 
University, even though it is desirable that a second university be developed in Brisbane. At the present time approximately 125,000 students are enrolled at the 15 universities throughout Australia and, on present plans, 18 universities will be functioning by the end of the next triennium, which will mean a substantial increase in overall enrolments. Colleges of advanced education, provided with funds under a system similar to that of the universities, are playing an increasingly important role and, indeed, they are playing a more clearly defined role than hitherto in the field of tertiary education. I do not think that too much emphasis can 'be placed on the importance of research in relation to education. I am very pleased that the Government is proposing to set aside a substantially increased sum of $20m in the 1973- 75 triennium to cover grants for research projects recommended by the Australian Research Grants Committee. 
Having regard to Australia's geographical situation and the changing state of the world, I believe there is an urgent need to encourage in this country the study of Asian languages and culture. I support wholeheartedly the Government's proposal to allocate $1.5m over a 5-year period for this purpose. Quite frankly, I personally would have been very happy to support a larger allocation because the major changes in our region mean that we must orient our thinking much more than previously to the countries to the north and north-west of Australia. Another very welcome set of proposals relates to Commonwealth scholarships. The major extension of Commonwealth scholarships at both secondary and tertiary levels will help many families and bring the opportunity for wider and higher education within the reach of many more thousands of students. This is a good thing. I have very much pleasure indeed in supporting the proposed estimates for the Department of Education and Science for the financial year 1972- 73. 
Australia's post-war immigration programme, which has played such an important part in our national development, is to be continued in the 1972-73 financial year. At the outset, I should like to pay my personal tribute to an honourable member who is not in the House at the moment but who is leaving us at the end of the life of this Parliament. I refer, of course, to the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  who, as Minister for Immigration during the early post-war years, laid the foundation of what is generally regarded as one of the most spectacular and successful mass migration programmes in history. To the right honourable member for Melbourne and to the first permanet head of the Department of Immigration,  Sir Tasman  Heyes, must go the main credit for launching this monumental scheme. I pay tribute also to the dedicated Ministers for Immigration and officials who have served Australia so well over the years since that time and who are serving Australia now. 
The Government has announced that, on the basis of likely needs and the availability of suitable settlers, 140,000 migrants will be admitted during the current financial year, 90,000 of these being assisted migrants. I believe the word 'suitable' needs to be emphasised. It is undeniable that some migrants who have come into this country over the years have proved to be unsuitable. Perhaps it can be said that, in a large intake, there are bound to be some who are not able to be satisfactorily assimilated. I think we would all accept that proposition. In fact, some have returned of their own accord to the countries from which they came because they found that they could not become happily integrated or assimilated in the Australian way of life. 
I believe there is a very strong feeling in the Australian community that all possible steps should be taken to keep a close watch on our selection and screening processes in order to ensure that we allow in only those who are reasonably certain to be assimilated successfully. Australianborn babies, of course, are the best and cheapest newcomers of ali. I believe I am voicing the views of a great majority of Australians when I say that we should be very careful not to import problems for our own or for future generations to contend with. In other words, we should avoid setting up minority groups which, for ethnic or other reasons, could become in future years a festering sore on the body politic. If we are wise, we will learn from the experience of other countries. We must always remember that we in this Parliament are the elected representatives of the people of Australia. We hold positions of trust and we betray that trust if we go against the clear wishes of the people. I say without hesitation that I believe most Australians are strongly opposed to the admission of people from other countries without any exercise of discrimination. 
The Australian Labor Party at its Launceston conference last year made a radical departure from its traditional immigration policy by proposing to abolish all forms of discrimination. I do not consider that this proposed relaxation is in Australia's best interest. The longstanding bi-partisan policy on immigration has unfortunately been abandoned officially by the Australian Labor Party, and its chief spokesman for many years on immigration matters, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  has been unceremoniously dropped because he does not agree with the proposed removal of all forms of discrimination. It is easy for honourable members opposite to say, as some of them have said, that they will reduce the overall migrant intake. The essential fact that the Australian people need to realise is that a Labor government would admit migrants from anywhere at all without discrimination and, therefore, regardless of their ability to be successfully assimilated. This is the inevitable conclusion to be drawn from the fundamental change in the Australian Labor Party platform last year. 
The Government is placing increasing emphasis on migrant counselling and selection, and also on English language training and migrant welfare services. This is a most valuable move. I believe we must endeavour by every possible means to assist migrants after their arrival to become happy and successful settlers. I am sure that the Government's plans will help to achieve this very desirable result. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I wish to direct my remarks to the estimates of the Department of- Foreign Affairs. Statement No. 8 presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on 15th August shows a proposed expenditure of $220m in 1972-73 on official economic aid to developing countries, including $145m for Papua New Guinea. This represents an increase of $34m over the estimated expenditure in 1971-72 and an increase of $19.8m over the actual expenditure of $200.2m for the 12 months ended 30th June 1972.- 1 believe that there is general support in the community for the Government's continuing programme of assistance to developing countries as an integral part of our foreign policy. Most honourable members, if not all, have, been receiving letters in recent months from supporters of Action for World Development, urging that Australia's overseas aid be increased to $240m in the current financial year. 
The main point to be noted is that the Government's programme of aid to developing countries is forward looking and flexible. This has been demonstrated during the past year by our programmes of aid to Indonesia and Vietnam and by our ready provision of relief and emergency aid to the unfortunate victims of the IndoPakistan conflict. Our aid programmes are designed to promote the economic develop ment of recipient countries and are based on the priorities that they have requested. With the exception of a loan in ,Papua New Guinea our aid has been given, as grant aid with no strings 'attached. The Colombo Plan, initiated by Australia 22 years ago, continues to play an important part and is at the heart of our bilateral programmes. It has not only assisted the economic, development of the recipient countries; it has. also helped to build goodwill and closer understanding between Australia and neighbouring countries. Moreover, it is in our own interests to play a leading role in providing strength and stability in this region of the world. 
In 1972-73, in addition to further .financial assistance for the building of the defence forces in Papua New Guinea, the Government proposes to spend approximately $14m on defence aid to certain developing countries in South East Asia. Statement No. 8 reveals the very wide field covered by our multilateral and bilateral aid programmes. As time goes on these programmes will no doubt continue to expand. Over the years Australia has built up a reputation as a responsible and reliable member of the United Nations and has played a significant role in upholding the principles of the United Nations Charter. 
Unlike certain other countries Australia has regularly paid its dues as assessed and has fulfilled its obligations in relation to peace keeping operations. 1 think it is appropriate that we should -seek membership of the United Nations Security Council for 1973 and 1974. Our approach to the many problems raised in the United Nations has been constructive and we have endeavoured sincerely to play an effective part on the world scene. In the past year the People's Republic of China has been admitted to membership, but the initial attitude of its delegates and its blocking of the admission of Bangladesh into the United Nations can scarcely be regarded as an auspicious beginning. 
According to a gallup poll published in May/ June 1972 the Australian people are closely divided on the China problem. It is reported that 53 per cent are in favour of recognising the Peking Government and 51 per cent are in favour of the continued recognition of Taiwan. The majority views expressed were 'It is a separate country' and 'We cannot go back on our policy'. It is true, as the, honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said earlier, that the United Nations was founded in an atmosphere of high hope after World War II. Unhappily that high hope has not been fulfilled. Some of the United Nations agencies certainly have done valuable work, as the honourable member for Deakin has said. The General Assembly does at least provide a common meeting ground and a common forum for many nations of the world, but there are some aspects of the United Nations that are far from reassuring. Its financial position is most unsatisfactory and the double standard that it applies in" international affairs is, to say the least, deporable. 
Clearly there is one standard that the United Nations applies in relation to the communist and other totalitarian countries and an entirely different standard it applies with regard to democratic and other noncommunist countries. There is a general readiness to denounce so-called racism. Ironically enough, this is a word which does not appear in the Oxford Dictionary. I take it that what they mean is racialism. Yet there does appear to be no denunciation of the heartless, ruthless expulsion by Uganda of 80,000 Asians from that country, including 23,000 who thought that they had acquired Ugandan nationality. The only really helpful move comes from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who has indicated that these 23,000 Asians would qualify lor United Nations assistance. The unjust discrimination against Jews in the Soviet Union is another instance of this double morality, because it is apparently ignored by the United Nations. Unless these double standards are abandoned- 
Is the honourable member in favour of it? The honourable member will have an opportunity of expressing his views and I will be very interested to hear what he says. I repeat what I said: The unjust discrimination against Jews in the Soviet Union is just another instance of this double morality, because apparently it is ignored by the United Nations. Unless these double standards are abandoned the effectiveness of the United Nations as an instrument of true peace and understanding amongst nations must fall far short of earlier expectations. The use of the, veto at a recent Security Council meeting in relation to Middle East violence and terrorism has also been a big disappointment and has unhappily demonstrated once again the patent defects of the United Nations as a world peace-keeping organisation. 
 I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government, in considering proposed changes to the border between this country and Papua New Guinea, has taken into account the significance to Australia of the great North East Channel particularly in relation to defence and also trade and shipping. I ask also: Is the Government mindful of the fact that at present this channel is wholly under Australian jurisdiction and that if the border is changed to 10 degrees south latitude, a very substantial part of it will come under the jurisdiction of Papua New Guinea? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Is it the policy of his Government to to make direct financial grants to municipal authorities, as foreshadowed last weekend by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in relation to the Brisbane City Council, or will finance for local government continue to be channelled through State governments as in the past? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The announcement last year of positive steps towards a continuing program of selective decentralisation represented a major step forward in the development of our nation. For such a program to be successful there must of course be the closest possible consultation with the States in a truly federal spirit. The present Government favours the development of certain regions, starting with the AlburyWodonga region, and it has been suggested that a Bathurst-Orange development might follow, and then others, but a number of aspects must be considered very carefully if regional development is to be balanced and satisfactory. Much has been said and written, over the years, of the need for a clear policy on decentralisation. About 8 years ago a Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation was established to gather the information needed to justify a Commonwealth policy on decentralisation. The detailed work was carried out by a technical sub-committee whose reports were finally collated and considered by the CommonwealthState Officials Committee in October 1971. The Committee then prepared and circulated a draft report to the various Commonwealth and State authorities. 
There is, of course, the question of the extent to which Commonwealth participation in a decentralisation program is allowed by the Constitution. Section 51 (ii) of the Constitution provides that the Commonwealth cannot discriminate between States or parts of States in matters of taxation. The Australian Industries Development Association has, within the past 12 months or so, published 2 penetrating articles of very great interest. One of the articles was published in March 1972 under the heading: 'Decentralisation: What's happening about it?' The other article, published in May 1972, appeared under the heading: 'An urgent need for decentralisation policy'. The August 1972 issue of 'Canberra Comments' published by the Australian Chambers of Commerce contained an excellent article entitled: 'Decentralisation and urban affairs'. interest in this whole subject has become more and more intense in recent months and the 'Manufacturers Bulletin' of 1st September 1972 reported a statement by the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development that about 700,000 people will have to be diverted from the Sydney metropolitan area to country centres of New South Wales  over  the next 28 years. The Minister said that this is equivalent to the creation of two and a half Newcastles, 23 cities the size of Wagga Wagga or 7 new cities of 100,000 residents. He went on to say that the climate had never been more favourable for a determined assault on the demographic imbalance which afflicts all Australian States and that there was now no question as to the attitude of all Governments, both Federal and State, towards decentralisation as an urgent national requirement. He then stated: 
A measure of the possibilities open to us ls the acknowledgement of State Planning Authority of New South Wales that the Sydney Region Outline Plan will only work if 300,000 job opportunities are created outside the Sydney region by the year 2000. 
Another eminent authority,  Dr Colin  Clark, has written extensively of the need to decentralise. In an article published in the Brisbane Courier-Mail' on 6th September 1972, he claims that our capitals in 20 years time will be unfit to live in unless urgent and positive steps are taken. I shall quote some passages from  Dr Clark's  article. He writes: 
There is only one solution. Our growing Industry and population must be diverted to new towns. This emphatically does not mean 'satellite towns', which will only make the confusion worse. 

 Dr Clark continues: 
A new town must be economically independent, not just a commuters' residential area. 

 Dr Clark claims that such a new town:  . . should be at least 90 minutes travel time away from any existing large town. 
He gives examples from Britain to indicate what should be avoided. He points out that British new towns are now being designed for populations of 250,000', but that 'even this latter figure, unfortunately, must be regarded as a minimum'.  Dr Clark  goes on to say that nobody likes to work in a small town which principally is dependent on one or two industries because there is too much economic uncertainty. He continues: 
Conversely, employers do not like to establish their businesses where the labour force is too small, with a limited range of skills and of ancillary enterprises. 

 Dr Clark is critical of South Australia for developing Elizabeth only 15 miles away from Adelaide. He believes that it will be a mistake if another new town is built only 50 miles from Adelaide, with a population aim of only 200,000 people. He points out that some economists think a population of nearly 500,000 is necessary before the essential economic conditions are satisfied and that none would put the figure below 250,000. 

 Dr Clark argues that, with our expected rate of population growth, Australia should be in a position to build a number of new towns during the next 20 years, but not an unlimited number. He claims that, instead of enlarging existing small towns, there is much to be said for designing new towns on vacant sites. He states: 
The funds available for subsidisation being limited, Australia's strategy will have to be to start only one or two new towns and to run each of them up to near the economic minimum size as rapidly as possible before starting on others. 
He suggests that no employer should be compelled to move to a new town, but that those who choose to stay in the capital cities should be faced with a payroll tax increasing year by year and the proceeds of this tax should be used to give substantial subsidies on the payrolls of employers in new towns. He also suggests that, to encourage decentralisation, there should be an equalisation of telephone charges over substantial distances and that the building of migrant hostels should he diverted to new towns. 
The journal 'Canberra Comments' of August 1972 makes the submission that, because of the importance of containing cost-push inflation, great care will need to be taken to ensure the economic and efficient utilisation of resources in the decentralisation of industry. The article points out that Australia has examples of decentralised industrial development based on the processing of raw materials and that more of this kind of development could be encouraged, provided that Australia's cost structure can be improved relative to costs overseas. The article stresses the vital need for the closest co-operation not only between State and Federal governments but also between governments and private enterprise. It also emphasises that incentives for decentralised development will be effective only if the total economic environment in the decentralised locality is taken into account and that businessmen with first-hand experience of decentralised development will need to be brought into consultation with State and Federal authorities at an early stage to ensure that basic commercial considerations are not overlooked. One of the most important of such considerations, of course - it almost goes without saying - is an adequate supply of water. 
I am sure we all agree that to counter the drift to the cities the formulation and implementation of a national policy for regional development, supported by both the States and the Commonwealth, is of prime importance. As the Australian Industries Development Association has pointed out, the vital element for successful decentralisation is the provision of employment, and secondary industry must provide the major thrust for successful decentralisation of the magnitude required. The Association suggests that, having declared a national objective, the following immediate steps should be taken: Firstly, we should nominate selected growth centres for decentralisation; secondly, planning bodies should be organised and forward cost studies prepared; thirdly, we should decide which industries are best suited for immediate decentralisation; and, fourthly, we should consider the proximity to markets, the readily available supply of labour, the ease of obtaining raw materials, the lowering of cost disadvantages and the improvement of telecommunications and rail and road transport to service markets. The Association emphasises the immediate need to subsidise those companies that are willing to decentralise straight away because the risks to these pioneer companies are greater and the disadvantages faced are more acute than those which would be encountered by firms choosing to decentralise at a later time, when a new city is more firmly established. Demographic surveys show that, of all the countries that belong to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Australia is one of the most highly urbanised. I hope most sincerely that very careful steps will be taken to remedy the situation over the years ahead. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-This has been a most useful and interesting debate. I join other honourable members in congratulating my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  on his initiative in bringing this important matter forward for discussion this morning. I also pay a tribute to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for the thought that he has obviously given to this matter and for the very well prepared amendment that he moved for the consideration of the chamber. Of course, the question before us this morning is not whether the televising of parliamentary debates should or should not be agreed to. Fortunately we are not called upon at this stage to decide whether to adopt such a major innovation. However, it is timely that we do consider whether this measure should be introduced. Of course, the best way to consider it is to refer it, as suggested, to a committee. I was very pleased when the Leader of the House brought forward his amendment to refer it to the Joint Statutory Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Procedures, a committee which I had the pleasure of serving on for some years. It is a most interesting committee. I have no doubt that this committee, assuming that the amended motion is carried this morning, will find its task extremely interesting and will produce a very worthwhile report. 
The question of televising a portion of the proceedings of this Parliament can be taken as an extension of the present broadcasting of proceedings because, unlike the House of Commons at Westminster, we have for many years had extensive experience of the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings of both the Senate and the House of Representatives. In passing may I say that I am not at all sure that the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings is not too extensive. In other words, we might with advantage be more selective in relation to the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings. We would all agree that many debates are doubtless dull and uninteresting, especially to the listening public. With this in mind I feel that it would be wise if we were very selective in any decision to televise portion of our parliamentary proceedings. It has been put forward already, and I agree entirely, that question time is clearly the period of most general interest to the public because of the variety of topics covered and because of the personal involvement of many honourable members in the chamber on both sides as well as, of course, Ministers who are under interrogation during this period. I am not sure that I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield when he said he thought it would be necessary to amend the Standing Orders to provide for supplementary questions to be asked. Standing order 151 states: 
Questions may be asked without notice. At the discretion of the  Speaker  supplementary questions may be asked to elucidate an answer. 
Although I do not gainsay the suggestion that we may, perhaps with advantage, have a look at the restructuring of question time or some aspects of it, I do not think it is necessary to introduce an amendment to enable the asking of supplementary questions. I feel sure that there would be wide public interest in the televising of important debates such as speeches by leading spokesmen on either side in relation to Treasury matters, particularly the annual Budget which affects everyone in the nation. Debates on electoral matters also have a wide appeal. Many foreign affairs debates are very interesting, as are defence debates .and debates on the environment. We could all go on and mention . many other interesting topics that we discuss from time to time in this chamber. 
Of course - this is an important pointthere would need to be a fair and reasonable balance as between front and back benchers. It would not be fair for front bench members of either side to hog the show. If Parliament is to be presented as a working whole - I agree entirely with what the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  put forward - the various aspects of a member's work, including the private member's work, must be depicted. The honourable member for Brisbane suggested that the work of some committees might be televised. I do not think that the general public appreciates or understands nearly enough about the work of parliamentary committees. I do not think that the general public realises the amount of research that members must do in the Library and the amount of work that is done in dealing with correspondence, inquiries and visits from constituents. All these matters are of great interest to the general public, but they are not nearly sufficiently well known or understood by the general public. I believe that this suggested form of communication of debates and other activities would help to overcome the present shortcoming. 
I believe that parliamentary democracy is best served by a maximum participation by the general public. It is important, in my view, that the electors be well informed on matters of current interest in the national sphere. In the course of each year, quite a number of Australians visit their national Parliament and we are always glad to see them and to welcome them, even though we do not always have the opportunity to meet them. This is the people's Parliament and the more people know and understand what goes on in this, their Parliament, the better it is for the nation as a whole. As the honourable member for Bradfield, and I think other honourable members, pointed out, television without doubt is the most powerful modern medium of communication. Provided the necessary technicalities can be catered for satisfactorily in the chamber without undue disturbance to the House and without inconvenience or discomfort to members, and provided that the television technicians and producers are fair and objective and that the entire televising of the proceedings is under the direct supervision of  Mr Speaker,  I can see no valid objection to the televising of selected parts of our proceedings. On the contrary, I can see positive advantage both to the Parliament as an institution and to the community in so doing. 
Earlier speakers have referred to what has been done in this respect in other countries. I would not agree for a moment to the televising of the entire proceedings of Parliament. I think the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  mentioned that the entire proceedings of the Danish Parliament are televised. I think that this would be disastrous. But I do agree that it would be wise to experiment a little first with closed circuit television, as was done in 1968 at Westminster. Let us not hurry unduly into a decision. Let us be cautious in our approach, because many aspects must be considered. Many points have already been raised in this debate this morning, but there are other points that we have not had time to canvass today. Many points could be raised under the headings, firstly, of desirability and, secondly, of feasibility, including cost. 
I am sure that if this amended motion is carried, as I hope it will be, the committee to which the matter will be referred for consideration and report to this House will be greatly assisted by the reports that are printed in the 'Parliamentarian' - the journal of the parliaments of the Commonwealth - to which reference already has been made this morning. The 3 issues to which 1 refer, which con- tain articles and a great deal of data on this matter, are those of October 1966, January 1971 and January 1973. 1 am sure that those articles would be most informative and useful to the committee in its deliberations. I do not know whether there are to be other speakers in this debate; but, in case there are and as 1 am most anxious that this matter be brought to a vote today and that a decision be taken, 1 conclude by saying that I fully support the motion as amended. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="083131197304035_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

No statistician could ask for a cleaner trend line. Simply laying a pencil along the plotted numbers, you can foresee that the United States will be devoid of gold within twenty years. 
But the end came sooner than they believed it would. He went on to say: 
The accelerated accumulation of dollar claims in their hands 
That is, bankers -  will lead much sooner to the show down over the ability of the United States to meet its obligations. 
That was written in 1968 but it was well known long before that. Yet the. previous Government never worried about the other losses to this country. 
Whom is it protecting? It is protecting companies that are basically foreign dominated and I will give the House some details of them. For instance, in Hamersley Holdings Pty Limited 54 per cent of the shares are held by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and 34 per cent are held by the Kaiser Steel Corporation of the United States. In the Mount Golds- worthy mines Consolidated Goldfields Australia Ltd holds 33 per cent, the Cyprus Mines Corporation holds 33 per cent and Utah Development Co. holds 33 per cent. At Mount Newman the Dampier Mining Co. Ltd holds 30 per cent of the shareholding and Pillars Iron Ltd holds 30 per cent. All of them are foreign companies. This situation could have been avoided had the previous Government insisted on investment priorities whereby Australian funds would be diverted into extractive industries in Australia. We could have had Australian management insisting on payment in Australian dollars and none of the problems which we have faced with currency realignments would have taken place. 
The previous Government had no record in relation to changes in currency. The Leader of the Country Party and the then Leader of the Liberal Party wrangled for days over the previous revaluation of 10 per cent, and the decisions of the then Treasurer and the Treasury were overlooked. The only consideration was that the Country Party was getting funds for its election campaign from its mates in the mining industry who had to be protected. The fact that Australian industries were being purchased at rock bottom prices on the stock exchange by a massive capital inflow never came into it. The fact that we had a rate of inflation of about 8 per cent which had to be considered as a result of this foreign investment never came into it either. But when this Government made a decision to revalue the Australian dollar and stop the purchase of our industries at basement prices we get all the whining in the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I ask the Acting AttorneyGeneral whether the Government has considered the report of the Bland Committee concerning the appointment of an official to review administrative decisions and to inquire into public grievances - in other words, a Federal ombudsman? If so, can the Minister indicate whether an early decision may be expected? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
For what purpose and on what terms does the Government propose to secure land rights over 7,500,000 acres of Queensland-held Aboriginal 'and. 
Order) The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! This is not a point of order; it is a matter to be considered in the course of the debate. 
I am not suggesting for one moment that all the difficulties that these people face are connected with housing. But I think that honourable members will agree with me that many of their difficulties come from housing and from the amount of money they have to pay by instalments for the ownership of their houses. This is not the whole of the financial difficulties with which they are faced but it is a very considerable sector of them. The past Government, by the Home Savings Grant for example, took measures to alleviate these difficulties. The proposal I am now bringing forward is not meant as a substitute for the Home Savings Grant; it is meant as a supplement and addition to it. I believe that in some respects my proposal carries the principle further forward and in a better way. 
Let me come to the proposals in the Bill itself which most honourable members are now seeing for the first time. The Bill provides that there be put on sale what 1 call housing certificates which would be of a nominal amount - they would have a small face value of $10. I suggest that they be put on sale in such places as post offices and banks so that they can be readily bought and acquired from time to time as funds become available. These housing certificates would be a normal and not terribly attractive investment. They would carry a cumulative rate of interest of 5 per cent and they would have a certain tax deductibility attached to them. They would be a reasonable method of saving. But they would have a novel feature: If they were cashed in for the purchase of the first matrimonial home, they would be cashed in not at the normal value but at an increased value. So, they would become, if they were used for this purpose and only if they were used for this purpose, bonanza certificates carrying special privileges. 
The bonanza which they would carry would be of 3 types. There are 3 special advantages which I suggest these certificates should carry if cashed in for the purchase of the first matrimonial home. 
The first would be that the compound rate of interest on them for the first 15 years would be not 5 per cent but 10 per cent. That is a bonanza rate of interest. 
The second advantage would be that the interest which would accrue on them would not be considered taxable income if they were used for the purchase of the home. 
The third advantage would be that the value of the certificates would be adjusted for the change in the consumer price index between the date on which they were bought and the date on which they were cashed in. That third advantage is one Which I think is of extreme significance because so many young people save and then find that, by reason of inflation and the change in the price level, their savings are no longer adequate to meet their outgoings on the home they want to have. I am suggesting that where these bonanza certificates are used for the purchase of the first home, and only for that purpose, they should be adjusted for the change in the consumer price index so that they would have an in-built hedge against inflation - a protection against inflation. I believe that this is something that many young couples would really appreciate. 
I am not suggesting that these certificates should be available in their bonanza capacity in big quantities. I am suggesting that the certificates which could be used for the purchase of any one house should not attract these bonanza conditions beyond a total cashable value of $25,000. That is the price of a modest house - not the cheapest type of house but a reasonable type of house. I am not suggesting that this measure should be used to help the big man, or the wealthy man. I suggest that it could be used to help the little man or the person of moderate means who is looking for a moderate type of house. Therefore, I would limit the bonanza conditions to a total drawing of $25,000. 
The Bill sets out the details of how ibis is to be done. The Bill is entirely self-contained. Honourable members will notice that clause 14 enables the Treasurer to guarantee these certificates. I have had to take this method of drawing the Bill because of the provisions in the Constitution and the Standing Orders which prevent a private member from proposing any appropriation. What I have put in the Bill is something which, when the necessary appropriation was made by the Parliament, would enable the Treasurer to guarantee the repayment of these certificates in the same way as he guarantees the repayment of a Commonwealth bond or a Commonwealth loan. That mechanism is included in the Bill. It is not thought that this will put any unreasonable strain on Commonwealth revenues. It is true that anything that is done to help a deserving section of the community must put some strain on Commonwealth revenues. If money is being paid out it must be paid from somewhere. In this case there are compensations from the point of view of Commonwealth revenues because the Bill will generate additional savings which will go into the antiinflation pool. The certificates which are not cashed in under bonanza conditions and are cashed in under normal conditions will bring some profit to the Commonwealth because the rate of 5 per cent is at present below the normal bond rate. 
It is true, of course, that the Commonwealth will be involved in additional expenditure by reason of the anti-inflation provision that the certificates will be escalated in value for future rises in prices. But this should not really strain the revenues because as inflation proceeds, as every Treasurer well knows, Commonwealth revenues also increase. From the Commonwealth's point of view, this charge on Commonwealth revenues is in a sense self-liquidating. What we are doing by this anti-inflation provision is not just taking Commonwealth revenue and giving it away; we are protecting the people who have invested against an injustice. For that reason I think that the House might well accept this kind of principle. I know that in the Treasury there are people who live on inflation and who will oppose this kind of thing, but I suggest that theirs is an illogical argument because the Commonwealth's revenues do respond to the rise in prices. The Treasury should take that into account. 
Let me go into some further details. It is suggested that the certificates could be bought only by or for people under the age of 30 years. This is meant to confine the bonanza opportunities to those in the younger age group. We have to think of those in the younger age group. But the certificates could be bought by other people for people under the age of 30 years. For example, parents might well buy them for their children. If so, the income tax deduction would not accrue to the parents; it would accrue only to the holder - that is, to the person in whose name they were bought. So there is no possibility of misapplication in that regard. They could be bought by parents. If parents decided to invest on behalf of their child $100 every year from birth, at the age of 22 or 23 years that child would be able to buy a house absolutely, without putting up any other money or having any debt on the house, because the value of the certificates would have thus accumulated. I think that this is not an unreasonable kind of thing. It is true that the parent would not get an income tax deduction in respect of those purchases because the income tax deduction could be taken out only in the child's name. But by a comparatively modest investment yearly a child's future could be assured. The increase in prices, in the consumer price index, would not affect the future purchases because the value WOUld be automatically escalated. Certificates could be bought for others, but particularly 1 think of young people buying them for themselves, whether they are married or unmarried, whether they own a house at present or not. With the present equality of wages which is coming in for male and female workers and the very heavy wages which are payable to people in the lower age brackets who are unmarried, there are considerable saving opportunities. The saving can be done either by a man or a woman. They do not necessarily have to be married people at the time they make the savings. They may be people preparing for a marriage with somebody whom they have already selected or it may be that they are just preparing for marriage in general at some future time without any engagement at present. The Bill defines 'purchase of a house' to include the outright purchase, the payment of deposit on a house or the reduction of indebtedness on a house already bought. So these bonanza conditions would be available to all people under 30, whether married or unmarried and whether or not they are at present home owners. 
Of course, I cannot pretend that the Bill can give the same advantages to everybody in the past that it would promise to those in the future, but it will give some equity to those who are now married or home owners or in the age brackets approaching 30 years. I believe that this is a Bill which puts a premium on self-help and incentive. I believe it fits into our existing system. It is not meant as a substitution for any kind of financial arrangement which at present exists; it is meant as an addition and supplement to it. I believe that it will reward initiative. 
Let me say something about the mechanisms of the plan - and the mechanisms are important. Basically they are very simple because the certificates will be appropriated to the financial year in which they are bought. Certificates bought in any financial /ear will have a set value in each succeeding year. So that at the beginning of every financial year, on  1  July, it will be necessary to publish a table with only  2  sets of figures in it, the normal value and the bonanza value of a certificate bought in each of the preceding years during which this scheme has operated. The mechanism is very simple and it is adapted for use by a computer so that the accounting can be made quite negligible. The mechanism will simply mean that a certificate will be obtained and the counterfoil will go into the computer as a record of it so that if the certificate is lost or mislaid .here will be some kind of redress, but there will not be the opportunity to forge or misapply certificates. I have had some experience of this and I can assure the House that the mechanics of this scheme are very simple and can be worked very adequately by the existing computer arrangements. There can be simplicity, convenience and security in the mechanics I put forward. 
This mechanism can be used for various purposes. In this Bill I have suggested that this mechanism be used to help young people acquire the ownership of their own homes. I believe that this is a constructive way of doing it. But by an easy adaptation the same kind of mechanism could be used for a system of national superannuation. I am quite certain that if we had remained in government and I has remained Minister for Social Services this is the system which we would have been putting forward for examination by the committee inquiring into national superannuation. A mechanism of this character, which has now been put forward, I believe, for the first time in the world, is something which can be adapted to these various purposes. What I am suggesting now as a mechanism to help young couples could also, by a separate Bill, be used as the basic mechanism for our scheme of national superannuation. As somebody who was the Minister who would have been responsible for this kind of thing had we remained in office, I am quite certain that this is a practicable way of going about it. 
Finally, let me say something about the procedure in regard to this Bill. The Bill was put on the notice paper and it was thought that it would come up today only for mention because on the notice paper in front of it was the notice for a resolution on the siting of Parliament House. Under the Standing Orders, what would have happened, is that the major time would have been taken up on that resolution and it would have been possible for me to have introduced this Bill and made it available for circulation and study by honourable members so that we could have an informed vote on it. As it happened, the day before yesterday the members of the Opposition who were to bring forward the motion on the siting of Parliament House decided suddenly to withdraw, postpone or defer their motion. That having been done my motion suddenly and unexpectedly came on for debate. 
Well,I am not going to stand for this. In this regard I am going to invoke the protection of standing order 218 which says that after a Bill has been read a first time the second reading may be moved and the debate shall then be adjourned to a future date. Standing order 218 is for the protection of members. It was designed for the very good reason that when a Bill is introduced honourable members should have a chance of reading it and studying it before they are called upon to vote on it. A constructive Bill like this should commend itself to everybody concerned with these young couples and the social questions of the day. It is an absolute scandal that a Bill like this should be brought in and killed without honourable member's having any knowledge of it or any real chance to debate it. Honourable members who have not read it - they received it only a few minutes ago - are being asked and commanded to vote against it and kill it. Well, I am not going to tolerate such a thing. I am going to invoke the protection available to me under standing order 218 which is designed specifically for this purpose. I have moved: 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
My seconder is the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson). 
Is the motion seconded? 
I rise to speak tonight on a matter which transcends party politics. I speak not as a Liberal but as a free citizen in a free country and above all as a Christian. In common with other honourable members in this Parliament I received some time ago a translation of a debate that took place in the Norwegian Parliament on 1 February 1972 on the question of the persecution of Christians in various countries, particularly those countries behind the Iron Curtain. I feel it would be appropriate that we in this Parliament should at least place on record our support of the views expressed on that occasion, and that is what I want to do. In the limited time available to me I want to mention some of the main points that were covered in the course of the debate. First of all I wish to quote from the introduction to the report which was written by Bishop  Monrad Norderval,  Chairman of the Convocation of Norwegian Bishops. In the introduction he stated: 
On 1 February 1972, a debate took place in the Norwegian Parliament on the question: Can anything be done on the part of Norway to end the persecution of Christians in the countries the other side of the Iron Curtain. 
Members of all the five parties now represented in the Parliament took part in the debate. 
During the debate, reference was made to the unanimous statement published by the Convocation of the Bishops of Norway on 11 November 1971, on the subject of the persecution of Christians. This statement in its entirety is reproduced in Appendix 1. 
If time permits, I would like to quote from that appendix. The introduction continued: 
Many of the countries in which religious persecution is carried out under government auspices have signed the UN Charter on Human Rights, of which freedom of religion is one of the fundamental ones. People who are today suffering under religious persecution appeal to this Charter. On 27 March 1972, i.e., after the Norwegian debate had taken place, 17,000 Catholics in Lithuania protested against systematic religious persecution - which is in contravention to the Soviet constitution - as practised in Lithuania. Appendix II.) 
No speaker in the debate denied that religious persecution had been taking place for more than 50 years in the Communist states. All those who spoke deplored this. 
They deplored it as, I am sure, all of us in this Parliament deplore it. Further on in the introduction Bishop Monrad  Norderval  stated: 
In his reply to the Question, the Foreign Minister, said: Now that we have the two UN Conventions on Human Rights, which were presented for signature in 1965, it is to be hoped that the time will soon be past when infringements of human rights can be regarded as a purely national concern'. 
To our knowledge, this is the first occasion that  a  national assembly has debated the religious persecution which takes place in the Communist countries. In my capacity of Chairman. I am most grateful for that debate, and I have come to the conclusion that the correct thing to do is to let the governments of all countries have a transcript of the debate. A translation into English will be sent to all governments, both East and West. 
I am also taking the liberty of appealing to alt governments - separately and jointly - to take up this matter, so as to put an end to religious persecution, which today is a disgrace to humanity. 
There are 2 appendices to Bishop  Norderval's  statement. One is the text of a unanimous statement by the Convocation of the Bishops of Norway dated 11 November 1971. The second is the text of a protest by 17,000 Catholics in Lithuania dated 27 March 1972 and refers to the systematic religious persecution going on in that country in contravention of the Soviet constitution. Turning very briefly to Appendix 1 referred to by the Bishop, he says: 
The Norwegian Convocation of Bishops have unanimously adopted the following strong and clear statement on the suppression of dissidents in the Soviet Union and other Iron Curtain countries. 
The wording of the statement is as follows: 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. While not denying that tax relief should be given first to those most in need, I ask the Treasurer whether it is the intention of the Government to wait for the report of the Asprey Committee before embarking on major changes in the overall taxation structure? I also ask the Treasurer whether the Government will bear in mind that if skilled persons earning more than, say, $5,000 a year are unduly penalised this will act as a disincentive and therefore retard productivity and feed inflation? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I would like to join with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  in complimenting the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in bringing this very important matter before the House today. There are one or two aspects that concern me. One is the use of the word forthwith' in sub-paragraph (a) of the motion. I have in mind the fact that we have in this Parliament today many new members on both sides of the chamber who are not familiar with all the arguments, all the pros and cons, in relation to the projected sites, one of course being Capital Hill and the other Camp Hill. There was an earlier suggested site that we debated at great length, and that was the lakeside site. I would hate to see a decision made forthwith by a body of members, some of whom are not fully informed on all the various aspects and all the arguments in favour of the various sites. 
I speak on this matter with some feeling as one who had the privilege to serve for 5 years on the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House and like the Minister. I was fortunate to be one of the delegation chosen to go overseas to inspect parliament buildings in other countries. We learnt a great deal from that exercise. I am most anxious that we do not make any mistake. This is a matter of national significance. While it is very important that we treat it, as the honourable member for Corio said, with some degree of urgency, I would not like to see us rush into a decision without taking full account of all the various aspects that are involved. I say again that I have in mind particularly the new members of the Parliament who do not have the advantage that we older members have had, having been through this exercise in other years. 
Generally the concept as outlined by the honourable member for Corio, I believe, deserves our support. I have done a little collating for the purpose of trying to put in a few words in a few minutes some of the main arguments in favour of Camp Hill and some of the main arguments in relation to Capital Hill. I must say that when I started thinking about this I was basing my thoughts on the wording of the motion as originally put forward and as it has been standing on the notice paper since last May in the name of the honourable member for Corio. At the beginning of the concept of Canberra Walter Burley Griffin had some definite views about the siting of the permanent parliament house. He said: 
I am emphatically of the opinion that the permanent structure should be on Camp Hill. I consider that to have been one of the earliest decisions, on which everything else was shaped. 
In another passage he said in relation to Capital Hill that he considered it too large and too high for a convenient working organisation of Parliament. It is equally true that he opposed most strenuously the building of the present provisional Parliament House on the site on which it stands. In the light of events he was obviously perfectly right in his forethought. He said that the building of a provisional parliament house on this site would tend to preclude a proper decision in relation to the building of a permanent parliament building on this site, in other words, on the Camp Hill site, which, as he said quite clearly, was the focal point, the starting point from which he drew and planned the whole design of Canberra. It is worth recording that in very few and only in minor instances have Griffin's original plans been departed from over the years in the development of Canberra. I would think it a very great pity indeed if we departed from his scheme, which was well thought out and which was selected after a world-wide competition, simply because we are not so fully informed of the facts as we ought to be. 
During the course of the years 1965-1970 when the Joint Select Committee was very active we were all very enthusiastic and we all became extremely interested and very involved indeed in this whole subject and made a great study of it. It was quite clear from the witnesses who appeared before us that the Camp Hill site was regarded as the apex of the parliamentary triangle and was clearly preferred by the great majority of the very eminent and highly qualified professional men who gave evidence before the Committee. A point that has been made many times is that it would be easier and cheaper to construct a first rate quality building on Camp Hill capable of continuing expansion than would be the case on Capital Hill, where there would "be far more architectural problems. I am not saying, and the evidence did not suggest it, that it was entirely impossible to build a satisfactory structure on Capital Hill. I merely say that the tremendous weight of evidence was in favour of building the permanent parliament house on Camp Hill. Camp Hill has the advantage of the symbolism of association and yet at the same time it is sufficiently prominent to provide a site for the major building in the national capital which, of course, is and always will be the Parliament building, because that is why Canberra exists. 
In considering this whole subject there are 3 very important considerations that I think we all must have in mind. One is the functional aspect, having regard particularly to the fact that we are so cramped in this present building. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said, we were advised everywhere we went overseas to think big, to project our minds as many decades as we could into the future and then add more. This was the general advice given to us overseas. Then there is the functional aspect I mentioned. Of course we must pay regard to the aesthetic aspects and also the symbolic aspect. I quote a second significant passage from Griffin. Reporting on the Camp Hill site he said this: 
The parliamentary edifice has thus a lofty setting stopping the long axis of the reservoir, crowned by the lofty Capital Hill- 
It was originally known as Kurrajong Hill- behind it, and supported on the flanks by the lower departmental buildings. 
Speaking of the Capital Hill site, this is what Griffin said on another occasion: 
The fact that Parliament is in  1  Houses is an incident in addition to the topographical situation that precludes the making of that structure a focal feature. 
Much play has been made in previous debates on the fact that Griffin spoke about this 2- chamber building that would need to be placed on Capital Hill, but he said clearly in the passage I have just quoted that he regarded this as only an incident, and it was mainly on topographical and other grounds that he made his decision in favour of Camp Hill. So substantially the whole of the expert advice that was given to the Committee over the S years that I mentioned was against the Capital Hill site and in favour of the Camp Hill site. 
Travelling along Kings Avenue towards Capital Hill, it is clear to anyone who observes that Capital Hill is way out to the left of the parliamentary triangle. On the other hand when one is coming along Commonwealth Avenue it is way out to the right and it appears to be irrelevant to the parliamentary triangle. I think the parliamentary triangle is something we must keep in the foremost of our minds in debating and considering all the aspects of the matter. To me the vista is very important. The vista from Camp Hill clearly was the vista chosen by Walter Burley Griffin as the most suitable, the most spectacular and the most desirable. The parliamentary triangle and the lake form the setting for Parliament, as was pointed out in the feasibility study which was kindly circulated to members by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I greatly appreciated receiving his letter and also a copy of the feasibility study, which I have read most carefully and which I think represents a sound and practical approach to this big problem about which we are all concerned. 
There is one thing on which we all agree and that is that the parliament house should be in a dominant position. That would be the case if it were on Camp Hill. It would also be in a dominant position - I would say a predominant position - if it were on Capital Hill. But it is the view of many experts that it should not be on a predominant site but rather on a dominant and readily accessible site, one which forms part of the parliamentary triangle and one from which there is this exquisite vista. 
Much has been said in previous debates also about the desirability of providing a better building than this present one. All kinds of adjectives can and have been used to describe it. It is only a provisional building, lt is 46 years old. As we know, it was originally projected to have a life of only 50 years. It is true that externally it has quite a fine appearance but internally, as we all know and as one' independent writer has described it, it is a rabbit warren. Much of it is obsolete. Conditions are cramped for members, the Executive, parliamentary staff, the Press and visitors in the galleries. More committee rooms are needed because committees have become and are becoming more and more an ancillary part of the parliamentary system. Some of the ancillary services unfortunately have to be housed elsewhere. This does not make for efficiency. In fact efficient work is inevitably impaired under the existing situation. 
Other independent observers have described the existing accommodation as hopelessly inadequate. Those of us who have to work in the building, and that includes members of the staff, would agree with that description. It was brought home to us by expert witnesses before the Committee that the maintenance costs in relation to this old building are extremely heavy and that the magnitude of them is increasing year by year. There has been much damage, through water penetration, in the plumbing and electrical systems, and full air conditioning will soon be needed. I think it is generally agreed that extensions are only a temporary palliative; they are not a solution to the problem. 
One point that has not been mentioned but which I think should be mentioned is that, as we all know, in this country we are in a position of inflation. It needs to be borne in mind that there would be no cash outlay involved in relation to a new and permanent parliamentary building, even if the decision were made this year, until 1976-77 and then it would not by any means be of major proportions. As I recall it, the figure put forward in the feasibility study was $6m over a period of 4 years dating from 1976-77 and by 1979, at the end of this decade, even if a decision were made today, we would have reached only the first stage of development of the new structure. If it were to mean a substantial capital outlay this year in an inflationary situation I do not think that any of us would be happy about making an early decision to go ahead with this plan. But the fact is - this needs to be brought home quite strongly - that no cash outlay will be involved in making a decision this year. As I said, it will not be until 3 or 4 years time when any major outlay will have to be made. 
Having regard to all the circumstances, many of which have already been outlined by previous speakers and gone into and traversed time and again in previous debates in this Parliament, I believe that we should support the honourable member for Corio because there is a degree of urgency involved, as he says. I am not happy about the word forthwith' if it means making a decision today or tomorrow. I think that the new members of Parliament must have time to consider thoroughly the pros and cons of the alternative sites. I have a firm conviction in my mind that Camp Hill is the best site. That is related to the expert evidence given to the Committee in which it was stated that that is the focal and central point from which Burley Griffin himself began the design of Canberra. I believe that the Government should call for designs. It should have a nationwide competition. The matter has been shelved for far to long. In the past there have been differences between the Senate and this House. I think that the suggestion put forward by the honourable member for Corio in relation to a joint sitting is a sensible and constructive approach. We have plenty of talent in Australia; let us use it in the design of a new parliament house. 
The Opposition supports the motion for the appointment of a joint committee on the parliamentary committee system as moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  We give our support in the expectation that the Senate will also support the motion. If the Senate does not support the proposal then we would, of course, want to have a fresh look at it in the light of the Senate's reaction. Like the Government, we recognise that there are a number of matters which need to be appraised in the interests of the Parliament and of the nation. The new sitting hours have seriously affected the committee system that exists at the present time and a fresh approach is clearly needed. 
The Leader of the House in his speech on this motion referred to the committee systems which now operate in the United States of America, Great Britain and Canada. We in the Opposition, are of course, aware of the differing roles of these committee systems, especially with respect to the process of legislative review. But both in Australia and elsewhere parliamentary committees are an integral part of the machinery of Parliament. In moving this motion the Leader of the House said: 
An extension of the committee system might well provide longer hours for debate, better presentation of debates in this Parliament and more information and in many ways might not only speed up processes of Parliament but make it possible for us to make better informed decisions. 
What this means, of course, is that the Leader of the House envisages the prior scrutiny of legislative proposals by committees so that debate might be expedited when Bills come before the House. The Opposition has no objection in principle to giving this matter consideration and it would agree with the 
Government that this is perhaps ideally undertaken by the proposed joint committee on the parliamentary committee system. 
However, I want to make it clear on behalf of the Opposition that the efficient operation of the Parliament is largely dependent on a degree of legislative planning and organisation which, of course, is primarily a Government responsibility. The present Government proposes to bring forward a record number of Bills in this session and to this we have no inherent objection. But the Government cannot expect the processes of the Parliament to accommodate the program it has in mind unless it undertakes adequate planning practices itself. It would be reasonable in these new circumstances for the Government to make available to the Opposition parties a draft legislative program detailing the business of the House and the nature of the proposed legislation for a period of, say, 6 weeks ahead. We believe this suggestion is practicable and would enable the Opposition parties and individual members of the House to be adequately prepared for debates and so mak. for a more efficient and more effective working of the House and of the Parliament. No one can deny that there is room for improvement in this direction. 
At the present time the Government either is not prepared or is not able to indicate to the Opposition parties the nature of any legislation or in fact even an outline of the parliamentary program more than a few days in advance. This is not very satisfactory. If the proposed joint committee is able to come up with satisfactory recommendations for a balanced system of committees, the better integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament and suitable arrangements for committee meetings then it will have achieved something very worth while. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether, in categorising schools, the Karmel Committee recognised that, because of greater stability of staffing, the average age and therefore the average salary of teachers in independent schools are higher than the average age and salary of teachers in government schools. 

Order! The honourable member for Hindmarsh should resume his seat. 
A WORKING BUDGET 
Australians, somewhat breathless after 9 months of Labor rule, were looking forward with some trepidation to the first Budget presented by an ALP Treasurer in 24 years. The package unveiled last night, however, was something of an anti-climax in that it is neither catastrophic in its impositions nor over-generous in its largesse. 
I am not suggesting for one moment that I would agree with that, but that was said in the Canberra Times'. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' said: 
LABOR'S FIRST BUDGET 
Faced with a difficult set of budgetary problems, the Government has managed to give effect to its reformist social ambitions while exercising a reasonable degree of economic responsibility. 
The 'Australian Financial Review' stated: 
A MODERATE BEGINNING 
Within the context of Labor's stated philosophy and aspirations - and contrary to the often irrational fears of business doomsayers -  Mr Crean's  first Budget is fair, moderately innovative and responsible. 
Of course, as the Treasurer repeatedly emphasised last night, it is merely the first instalment of the Whitlam Government's plan to change the economic and social face of Australia. 
It hardly sounds as though the revolution is around the corner in the way that our friends on the other side of the chamber have carried on. Anyone who claims to even a modicum of impartiality or objectivity would, I believe, venture to suggest that the Press of Australia had suddenly been converted to the Labor cause or had had a bad attack of socialism. But those were the comments of the Australian Press on our Budget. Only political parties such as the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party could reach such previously unmatched heights in absurdity and in their capacity for self-delusion if they continue to view this Budget and to think that the people of Australia view it in such a light. 
Should anyone care to analyse the arguments put forward by Opposition speakers in this Budget debate I am sure they would be surprised to find how consistently inconsistent they have been. On the one hand the Government is attacked for too much public spending and on the other for spending too little. On the one hand we are attacked for a very nominal increase in taxes and on the other for having budgeted for a deficit which the Opposition claims will stimulate inflation. Of course the obvious alternative is to budget for a surplus by increasing taxation. The Opposition could have indicated where we could have restricted our expenditure but it has clearly not been prepared to do this. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  claims that it is not his responsibility to prepare an alternative Budget or to indicate what sort of approach he would take. I should like to direct him to previous speeches by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was the Leader of the Opposition, both in Budget debates and in campaign speeches, where he indicated clearly what steps the Australian Labor Party would take. Incidentally, I should like to congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on the speed with which he read his reply to the Budget. He must have set a new fast talking record even if it was not of every high quality. Let' us imagine what the 1973 Budget by the Liberal Party-Country Party might have been if that coalition had been in government. 
The old warlords - my friend from North Sydney would come into that category - who got us involved in the monstrosity that was Vietnam, still seem convinced that we are about to be attacked by that wonderful enemy they always managed to produce near an election. Even though we are now out of Vietnam, even though the Republican  President  of the United States has forged a new detente with China and with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and even though there is not a country within 1,000 miles of Australia that appears to be remotely aggressive or expansionist - unless of course one thinks that New Zealand, since it went socialist, is a threat to Australia - clearly the Liberals would have spent some hundreds of millions of dollars more on defence. 
They leave no doubt that they would have made substantial grants to the A category schools to which they show such a strong affinity. This would entail, 1 understand, approximately S36m, unless the amount given to other schools were reduced. In view of the Opposition's past record this is probably what would have happened. It does not have the courage to say that but this is clear from its past record. The poor Catholic schools and the State school system would not have received anything near what they have received under this Government. 
For a Party that for 23 years completely ignored the problems of the over-populated cities and talked glibly about decentralisation while the people left the rural areas in droves to come to the cities, it is the ultimate in absurdity to criticise a Labor Government which has put down its first instalment of SI 36m to improve the quality of life for a most neglected segment of the community - the urban Australian. The sum or S36m has been provided for growth centres, including Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange. LiverpoolMenaiCampbelltown, Gosford-Wyong, Townsville. Geelong, Monarto and &lt;o on. An amount of S30m has been provided for sewerage, S8m for the western sectors of Sydney and Melbourne, S32m for urban transport and S30m for the setting up of a land commission. Yet the Liberals say that it is not enough. They are in for an awfully rude shock when the Cities Commission report is introduced next week. For a Party that never took any interest whatever in the problems of the cities or ever did anything but talk r.bout decentralisation, it has been converted in world record time. 
In the few moments left to me 1 want to look at the field of social welfare. I have already mentioned the question of Budget increases. Like everybody else one would like to have seen even larger increases. I say that as one who represents the electorate with the largest number of pensioners. On the latest figures there are 21,000 people in my electorate in receipt of a pension; the nearest to this is the electorate of  Mr Speaker  with 14,000. 
This Budget provides assistance in a number of other ways. If honourable members take the time and trouble to listen to the second reading speeches to see what the Bills being introduced contain, as I have done, they will be able to indicate these new provisions to all those groups who are interested in seeing a real quality of life emerge in our comunity. I am talking now about sporting and related groups, people concerned about recreation and the use of our leisure time, people who are interested in the problems of the aged and in senior citizens' centres, creativity centres and arts centres. All these are mentioned in this Budget. I advise all honourable members on both sides of the House, particularly those on my side, to read the legislation very carefully because it is in their interests to do so. Sometimes honourable members have groups come to them. They might be very fortunate and the groups may have the plans drawn up. All that the groups will want the member to do is present those plans to the appropriate department. But many times there are groups without the capacity to initiate such moves and it is then up to the member in association with councillors and State members to initiate those proceedings. I have about 5 senior citizens' centres and 2 recreation centre projects going at the moment. 
It will be up to members of Parliament to explain to local groups the details of this legislation which provides $3. 2m for the development of community recreation complexes. There has been a doubling of the amount provided for senior citizens' and social welfare centres. This is a most progressive move. Funds are available under the social welfare assistance plan and it is possible to get a grant of $20,000 for a regional director and planning staff to draw together the myriad social welfare and health activities which are now run by so many different government agencies without any over all planning. The provisions are there and it is up to the community, with the initiative being taken by Federal members and their colleagues, to see that each community gets the advantages provided in this Budget. 1 am coming to the end of my time and I am sorry that I have not had the opportunity to enlarge upon a lot of the matters I have mentioned. I have a few regrets about the Budget. I do not think the Budget has yet been introduced that does not leave room for regrets. However the action I regret most is the 5 per cent impost on petrol. From a personal point of view and on behalf of my electorate I regret not the actual phasing out of sales tax on nonalcoholic carbonated beverages but the way it was done. I think a plan should have been worked out before the sales tax exemption was removed. However, by and large I believe that this Budget will be seen to be one of the very great Budgets in Australia's history as the impact and implications of it are felt and as people start to read the fine print in it and see that it contains things for the whole of the people of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This Bill seeks to abolish the death penalty for any offence and to substitute imprisonment for life. The proposal is all or nothing. It has been criticised by some because there is no provision to cover extreme cases, such as treason or murder following the hijacking of an aircraft. To that list some would add the murder of prison warders or policemen, murders following a threat coupled with a demand for money, second murders by the same criminal and the murder of a diplomatic or consular official. An eminent Sydney doctor,  Dr William  McBride who alerted the world to the dangers of thalidomide to unborn children, has recommended capital punishment for drug smuggling. As I see it, there is no completely clear out case either for or against the retention of the death penalty, even for the worst crimes. 
The authority of the Bible has been quoted for years with sincerity and conviction by both abolitionists and retentionists. Since the earliest times, men have struggled with the question of capital punishment. The custom in the Middle East was to execute criminals by stoning, hanging, crucifixion or impalement on a stake. In ancient Babylon, persons condemned to death were thrown into a pit to be torn and devoured by hungry lions, or cast into a fiery furnace. Daniel is one of the very few recorded persons against whom one of these dread penalties failed to operate. In ancient Rome Christians were thrown to the lions in the Colosseum. Death by hanging was the usual method adopted in Egypt and in a number of other countries. 
In the Middle Ages religious dissenters were frequently burnt at the stake, torn asunder on the rack or killed by the embrace of what was euphemistically called the 'Iron Maiden'. A doomed prisoner was sometimes tied to 4 horses which were then driven apart, tearing the prisoner's body from limb to limb. Prior to 1835 the penalty for treason in England was hanging, followed by decapitation, disembowelling and quartering. In 1780 about 350 crimes in England were punishable by death - many of them were trivial offences as my colleague and friend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has pointed out. As the honourable member said, even quite young children were sometimes hanged. In France the guillotine was first used in 1789, in the first year of the French Revolution, and continued in use for 180 years, being abolished only in 1969. In the early history of the United States of America capital punishment was as often as not imposed by a lynching mob; the electric chair came into use in 1890, and in 1937 the gas chamber was introduced. No-one can deny that most of these methods are barbarous and cruel and belong essentially to the past. I have cited them to show how attitudes have changed through the centuries. Today, many nations have eliminated the death penalty, partly because authorities maintain that capital punishment does not deter crime and partly because many believe that it is cruel and inhuman. 
One of the strongest arguments used by the abolitionists is that an innocent person may be put to death. The crucifixion of Christ is, of course, the most outstanding case of rank injustice in the whole annals of history. Death is so very final and there can surely be no greater wrong than to put to death, by any means whatsoever, an innocent person. There is a very real dilemma in this whole question, in a moral sense, in a religious sense and in a social sense. It is unhappily true that we live in a world of growing lawlessness and violence. It is true also that a high percentage of serious crime is unsolved. Some countries where the death penalty has been abolished are considering reviving it in the belief that it is the most compelling deterrent to the worst kinds of crime. Some people argue that the ultimate penalty should be reserved for the ultimate in crime. Some people suggest that degrees of murder should be more clearly established. Others warn that notorious killers may escape from prison and kill again. Of course, this has happened. 
The abolitionists, including Lord Gardiner, an eminent English jurist, maintain that there is no country where the murder rate has increased because capital punishment has been abolished. When delivering the Southey Memorial Lecture at the University of Mel bourne Faculty of Law last April Lord Gardiner referred to various European countries that have abolished the death penalty and he claimed that they were right in so doing. Dealing with the possible deterrent effect which has already been referred to at length in this debate, Lord Gardiner said: 
The cry for an increase in deterrence is as old as mankind; but it has never worked - not even in the days when we had capital punishment for more than 200 different offences. 
In fact, since the last war, there had been a steady increase in my country in the length of sentences. 
He was referring to the position in England. He emphasised that an increasing crime rate required an increase in the strength of  the  police force, and with this I most heartily agree. Indeed, I believe that it is of prime importance if we are to place more emphasis on crime prevention, as I feel we should. In Brisbane recently the Queensland Minister responsible for the police force said Australians had a tendency to regard criminals as  the  underdogs and to have more sympathy for  the  criminal than for the police. If this is so, surely there is something basically wrong with our scale of values. Some of the old-fashioned revulsion against crime appears to have  receded.  I believe that not nearly enough thought and compassion are extended to the victims of crimes or to their relatives. 
Perhaps .these attitudes are merely modern. Perhaps they are symptoms of a sick society or at least of a society that is uncertain of its standards and of just where it is going. But without doubt the general trend in the world today is away from, capital punishment. Some of the Australian States abolished it a long time ago and there is lack of uniformity in this country. In my own State of Queensland the death penalty was abolished more than 50 years ago, in 1922 to 'be precise. The last hanging there was in 19(13. The rate of serious crime is no higher in Queensland because of the abolition of capital punishment. In New. South Wales the death penalty was abolished in 1955, except for 2 rare crimes, treason and piracy with violence. Convicted murderers are now sentenced to life imprisonment, which appears to average only about 17 years. On this point I take issue most strongly with the State authorities concerned. In my view life imprisonment should mean just exactly that. To release a convicted murderer sentenced to imprisonment for life is, I believe, a wrong against society and makes a farce of the law. It invites further crimes, as the records show. It also minimises the all-important deterrent effect of a lawful sentence of life imprisonment. 
As honourable members will recall, there was a case a little time ago of a man named Lawrence in South Australia who asked to be hanged rather than be doomed to imprisonment for life. I have read some of the debate that took place at Westminster in 1969 when the British Parliament voted for the abolition of the death penalty. The Archbishop of Canterbury,  Dr Ramsey,  led 18 bishops who voted for the abolition. In the House of Lords debate the Archbishop said: 
Abolition of capital punishment once and for all will help to create a more civilised society to search for the causes of crime and to continue experiments in .penal reform. 

 Dr Ramsey said he was certain that the decision would be to the advantage and honour of the nation. In June last year the United States Supreme Court ruled that the death penalty, under most existing State and Federal laws, was unconstitutional. 
It seems rather farcical to keep on the statute books in this country a penalty which is almost invariably commuted to life imprisonment. A mandatory death penalty increases rather than diminishes the chances of dangerous criminals going unpunished, as juries are more reluctant to convict. In effect the death penalty represents retribution rather than correction and there is always the risk of serious injustice. I am far from satisfied that capital punishment, by whatever means it is carried out, is a deterrent to the most serious types of crime, and although to my mind the position is by no means clear-cut, I come down on the side of those who say that we should support the Bill. I agree with those who maintain that certainty of apprehension and sentence is the most effective deterrent and provides the greatest protection for our Australian society and this certainty plus reformation of criminals is, in my view, what we should strive to achieve. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I ask him whether the Government has yet fully considered the establishment of an Omega navigational base in Australia and, if so, when the Parliament may expect an announcement on it. Is the 
Prime Minister aware of a recent statement by the officer-in-charge of Omega operations that if Australia does not allow an Omega base on its soil such a decision would be detrimental to countries in this region but would not affect the United States of America, that the Omega system has no relevance to nuclear missile carrying submarines and that an Omega receiver could not be used to send messages to such submarines? 
I have listened with great interest to the 2 preceding speakers, the honourable members for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Both of them are known to be genuine and sincere parliamentarians, anxious to put forward suggestions for the better working of the Parliament. I would like to think that I might be included in this group. Reference has been made to question time. Undoubtedly question time docs need improving. I think we should all take note of the statement - indeed, the plea - made from the Chair by  Mr Speaker  on 11th of this month when he especially asked members to reduce the length of their questions and when he also made a plea to Ministers to make their replies shorter and more to the point. Of course, all that is provided in the Standing Orders in relation to Ministers' answers to questions is that they must be relevant to the question; there is nothing in Standing Orders in regard to the length of the reply. 
I feel this is a matter that the Standing Orders Committee might well have a look at. I feel that more power should be vested in  Mr Speaker.  Indeed, I should like to see  Mr Speaker's  powers more commensurate with those of the  Speaker  of the House of Commons at Westminster. I believe that this Parliament would function much better if there were more powers vested in the Chair and if the Chair had a greater discretion, for example, to pull up a Minister who was obviously making too long a statement in reply to a question without notice on a matter which, according to the best practice of this Parliament, should really be dealt with at the end of question time, because invariably leave would be granted to a Minister to make a statement on a matter of importance at the end of question time. I think that all members on both sides of the chamber would prefer a Minister to make a statement at the end of question time, rather than take up the time of honourable members. 
Allowing for the fact that we are in opposition, our chances of asking questions without notice are reduced, especially if one is sitting on the back benches. We should be able to ask many more questions than we do during the course of the 45 minutes allowed for questions each day. I have found in discussions with my constituents that question time is the part of parliamentary proceedings which is probably of greatest interest to the people outside this place and I think it should be borne in mind by all of us that we should give maximum opportunity to all members on both sides of the chamber to ventilate their points of view and to ask questions, and that Ministers should co-operate by making their answers as brief as possible. So, I hope that we will all bear in mind  Mr Speaker's  plea and that the Standing Orders Committee will also take note of my suggestion that it should have a look at this question of giving more power to  Mr Speaker. 
On the notice paper of today, 26 September, I notice that there are questions on notice which have been on the notice paper since 28 February. Having a look at the questions that were put on notice on that date, I should think that some of them would have been capable of being answered before now. I do not think that a serious enough effort is being made by some Ministers and departments to give answers to questions on notice. I think that there has been somewhat of a falling down of the parliamentary process in this area. It is the responsibility of Ministers to see that their departments help them to come up with answers within a reasonable time. 
Another point that is worrying quite a lot of members is the growing tendency in recent times for quite important statements to be made outside the chamber. I can well understand the leader of any party, and more particularly the leader of the government of the day, making statements to the Press. I think the holding of weekly Press conferences between a Prime Minister and the Press media is a good thing, but I think it is desirable that they be kept within reasonable bounds. Let me quote one instance. I am rather concerned that a matter so important to the nation as a major change in the manufacture of Japanese cars in Australia was announced by the Prime Minister to the Press - not to the Parliament but to the Press - on 28 August. That was a major policy decision, a matter which members of the Parliament would like to have had a chance to debate and indeed should have had a chance to discuss if they bad so desired. I hope that there will be a lessening of this tendency to make statements of significance outside the chamber and that there will be more and more a tendency to come back to the parliamentary system and for matters of national consequence to be dealt with and spoken about in this chamber in the first instance. 
I come now to another question which I think I was the first to initiate about 10 or 12 years ago, and that is the size of the quorum of this chamber. As we know, under section 39 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution we are bound to a proportion of 33 1/3 per cent of members for a quorum. At the moment we do not have a quorum. I think that many people sitting in the gallery, for example, and, when we are on the air, people listening, must be disturbed when they hear calls for a quorum. It is unrealistic to maintain a quorum of 33 1/3 per cent. We have one of the highest quorums in the world. I did quite a lot of research on this subject 10 or 12 years ago and I tried at that time, as a member of the Standing Orders Committee, to get my suggestions adopted, but I was not successful. This is another matter at which members of the Standing Orders Committee might have a look. I can recall that about 3 years ago the previous Government introduced the House of Representatives (Quorum of Members) Bill aimed at reducing the size of the quorum. Somehow or other it became bogged down and did not pass through the Parliament - mores the pity. 
I think that many people fail to realise - and one can understand their inability to realise this because one has to be part and parcel of the place to realise - how much time of a member is taken up with committee work, with research, with correspondence which flows in all the time, with interviews with Ministers and in a great many other ways. We cannot afford the time to sit in this chamber ali the time. In fact very often it is difficult to comply with the request of the Whip to come down into the chamber to help make a quorum because if one leaves one's room for half an hour or so one finds another big pile of work waiting when one goes back. 
I believe that there has been some improvement in this Parliament in relation to the sitting hours. I am. always very mindful of the effect of sitting hours on the staff - not so much on honourable members as on the staff of this Parliament. I have made a plea in previous parliaments for more consideration to be given to the staff. Long sitting hours are very arduous. It is not often realised that quite a lot of people in the Parliament and outside the Parliament have at least another hour's work to do after the Parliament rises each night. When we rise at 1 1 o'clock, as we now do each night automatically - this is a good thing - there are quite a lot of people who have work to do until about midnight. In other words, they do not leave the building and go home to bed as honourable members do at 11 o'clock. They do not get away from the place until about midnight or perhaps even later. I think that this has been a good move forward. 
The committee system, to which I have always attributed a great amount of importance, has suffered considerably under the new sitting hours arrangements. We sit more days in the week and we have been sitting more hours each day. This is necessary to get through the work. It also has to be realised that the committee system is an integral part of the system of Parliament. I hope that the joint committee to be set up to study and report on the committee system of the 2 Houses will be able to come up with a solution. I compliment the Government on so far keeping up regular grievance debates and general business debates. I am pleased about this because it recognises the rights of private members to speak in these debates. Inevitably with the increasing volume of work in Canberra honourable members will have to face up to spending more weeks of the year in Canberra. I think the answer lies in spending more weeks of the year in Canberra rather than spending more days in the week here because at the same time as there is an increase in the volume of an honourable member's work here in Canberra there is an increase in the volume of work in the member's electorate. I think that Friday and Monday sittings make it almost intolerable for members. We just cannot get through the amount of work that has to be done in our electorates and meet all the commitments we are expected to meet there and then be ready to face up to a full week's work here. I hope that this is a matter that will also be looked at by the authorities concerned. Many matters which are referred to a member would more properly be referred to an ombudsman, and I hope that in due course the authorities will have another good look at the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee which sat last year under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kerr. I think the report was tabled early last year. It recommended the appointment of a general counsel for grievances. Some of the States have wisely appointed ombudsmen, and I hope that the Commonwealth will follow suit. 
Finally may I pay a tribute, as I very much like to do on this annual occasion of a debate on the parliamentary estimates, to the efficient and the dedicated service given to the Parliament by the staff and by the various ancillary services of the Parliament. 
The House will come to order. There are too many interjections coming from both sides of the House. The Minister is entitled to be heard in silence. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the marine operations centre which was opened in April last year by the honourable member for Gippsland in his capacity as Minister for Shipping and Transport at that time. I ask: Is the centre providing a 24-hour surveillance of the Australian coast as planned and is the surveillance operating effectively on a CommonwealthStates basis? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stressed that education is a top priority. The Budget provides in this current financial year for a total expenditure of $843m, which in fact is a fairly substantial increase over the actual expenditure of the previous financial year. I believe, however, that it is misleading for the Government to claim, as it has done, that it is increasing spending on education this year by $404m or 92 per cent over that of last year. Of this $404m approximately $145m simply represents the money that the Commonwealth 
Government is taking back from the States in order to establish as from 1 January 1974 financial control of all universities from Canberra. So really this sum is being transferred from the States to the Commonwealth 'and cannot be correctly described, in my view, as an increased Budget allocation. Another $90m of the total funds to be set aside for education is for the purpose of continuing the tertiary education programs adopted by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. A substantial part of the proposed increases relates to various aspects of education contained in the 1972 policy speech of the previous Prime Minister and has been adopted by the present Government. We have no quarrel with this nor have I, at any rate, any quarrel with the total Budget allocation for education in the current financial year or with the proposed further expenditure in 1974-75 as the various programs due to commence in 1974 come fully into operation. 
Education is, I agree, an area of high priority. I support the proposed increases in allowances available under existing scholarship schemes. I support the proposed increases in the Government post-graduate award scheme and the provision of some additional awards. Also I am in favour of the proposed increase of $10m in the unmatched capital grant for the building and equipment costs of technical schools and colleges. The proposed grant for 1973-74 of $2m for emergency supplementary classroom accommodation in state and nongovernment schools to facilitate special instruction of migrant children is, I believe, a very worthwhile move. So too is the provision of special grants to New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria to assist in the training of additional social workers in universities in those States. 
The Government's expressed plan to improve the quality of education in Australia has been touched on already in this debate by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  and by other speakers. I agree entirely with this plan. The Government's plan to improve the quality of education - something of great importance - will, I believe, be watched very closely and with very great interest. In his statement to the House on 23 August last the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  amplified the Government's proposals in the overall field of education at its various levels. Particularly pleasing, I feel, are the proposals for assisting special groups such as Aborigines, migrant children, soldiers children and isolated children. A total allocation of slightly more than $45m will be made in 1973-74 for these special groups. I am happy about this. 
The report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, while containing some good recommendations, is unfortunately most unjust and discriminatory in various respects. The extraordinary categorisation of schools has, as is well known, caused a great deal of dissatisfaction and concern throughout the country. The recommendations were obviously based on hastily acquired information. Schools were not visited by the Committee, and the way in which many schools were categorised caused confusion, resentment and uncertainty, and cut across the basic principle of freedom of choice in relation to the education of all children. Since the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) which we are debating was first introduced, the Minister for Education has informed the Parliament that quite a few appeals have been submitted 'against the Karmel Committee's findings and recommendations. Let us hope that these appeals receive the full and fair consideration that they deserve. 
The apparent adoption of the staff-pupil ratio as the basis of assessment of needs is clearly arbitrary and unfair, as is the phasing out of aid to category A schools a year earlier than was recommended by the Karmel Committee. The Liberal Party believes that the present system of per capita grants of $62 a year for every primary school pupil throughout Australia, and $104 for every secondary school student in the country, is a fair and proper basis and that these grants should continue as a minimum. Additional funds, I suggest, could be provided for needy schools according to the degree of need. Leading spokesmen for the Labor Party gave election assurances that no school would be worse off under a Labor Government. It is regrettable, to say the least, that these promises are apparently not to be fulfilled. 
Recently I came across a most interesting and penetrating article written last May by  Mr Ian  Lister, Lecturer in Education at the University of York. He writes, basically, of the educational position in England but much of what he says pertains to this country and, indeed, to a number of other countries. Not everyone will agree with what he writes but what he says is forthright and challenging and, I believe, deserves attention. In the remaining time available to me I would like to touch upon two or three of the points he makes. He points to a number of key aspects in education and suggests some remedies. He states: 
There is no single, magical solution to the crisis; the simple way does not exist. 
I do not think we would query that statement. He questions certain assumptions and trends. He criticises the curriculum developers. He asserts: 
For many pupils, school life becomes just one damned work sheet after another. 
It is true, I believe, that the pressures and tensions on children and adolescents today are too great and too continuous. The conscientious, hard-working student has all too little time in which to enjoy life, maintain a balanced outlook and widen his or her horizons. Dealing with another major aspect Ian Lister says: 
We need ... a greater variety of choice both within and between institutions, associated with an establishment of basic law and human rights. 
He claims: 
Democratisation and equality are myths, used to hide the gap between promise and performance. 
Those are very challenging words but there may be more than a grain of truth in them. He maintains that there should be a redistribution of tasks between school and society. He says: 
Parents, in particular, should resume a greater responsibility for the education of their own children. 
Most schools in Australia, both government schools and independent schools, do in fact receive valuable assistance from parents and citizens associations, but I believe there is still much room for improvement and for greater community involvement in this respect. Recently I visited the Brisbane Independent Primary School at Kenmore in my electorate, a school which is struggling along with minimum aids to provide for 125 girls and boys a primary education which is wider and more flexible than that provided in the systemic schools. Without an unusual degree of parent participation and support this school, unfairly included in category A by the Karmel Committee, could not have been launched, let alone maintained. I believe that we could do with many more schools like this throughout Australia. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I agree with a great deal of what has been said in the course of the debate by my colleagues on this side of the chamber. What I wish to devote myself to primarily is the question of Australia's overseas aid programs. In the Budget Speech presented last August the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  informed the Parliament of the Government's proposal to increase external aid, including defence aid, from $257m in 1972-73 to $334m in the current financial year. He explained that most of this increase would occur in relation to aid to Papua New Guinea and that it relates to that country's movement towards self-government and independence. 
Previously details of Australia's external economic and defence aid to developing countries had always been set out in statement No. 8 attached to the Treasurer's Budget Speech. This year there was a departure from that practice. A new procedure has been adopted. A detailed explanation of aid programs is to be found in the White Paper entitled 'Australia's External Aid 1973-74' which was issued concurrently with the Budget documents. The purpose of the various external economic aid programs undertaken by Australia to assist developing countries, including Papua New Guinea, is, of course, to assist those countries to attain more rapid economic growth and higher living standards. As a member of the Liberal Party I support these aid programs which over the years have played an important part in fostering good relations with the various countries concerned and in helping them gradually to stand on their own feet economically. This process, of course, is being continued and it is all to the good. 
I do not oppose the move to grant selfgovernment to Papua New Guinea on 1 December next. But in regard to independence for Papua New Guinea I believe that Australia should not fix the date. It should leave this big question to the indigenous people to decide themselves. I do agree, though, that Australia must be prepared to continue for quite some time in the future to provide financial aid to Papua New Guinea as a near neighbour with whom we will all want to remain on friendly terms. I pay a tribute to the various voluntary overseas aid agencies which are making a very significant contribution to overseas development. I believe it is important that all contributions, by governments and by voluntary agencies, should be properly channelled to ensure that they reach the right sources. 
The estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs for 1973-74 show a proposed increase of approximately $8m to cover administrative expenses, the Colombo Plan and other aid and overseas service. The details are fully set out, as honourable members would know, on pages 43 to 48 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). To assist the promotion of greater regional security and co-operation in South East Asia and in the South Pacific, Australia is providing defence aid to a number of friendly neighbouring countries of immediate strategic interest to us. The nature of all such aid is determined in consultation with the recipient countries to ensure that the maximum effect is achieved. Expenditure on our bilateral aid programs - excluding Papua New Guinea - is estimated to increase by just over $6m in the current year to a total of nearly $67m. 
The most important and most successful of these programs - I think we would all agree with this - is the Colombo Plan which was initiated by the Menzies Government in 1950. The next largest items under the heading Bilateral Aid Expenditures' include aid to Indonesia - excluding training and food aid - and the International Wheat Agreement-Food Aid Convention. Our multilateral aid expenditure for 1973-74, covering a very wide field indeed, shows a planned increase of $4,685,000 over the expenditure for the year 1972-73. I am sure that we all support this increase. By far the largest single increase is in expenditure for the Asian Development Bank which covers both capital subscriptions and special fund contributions. The increased allocation for these is $3,625,000. Substantial contributions are to be made to the various agencies of the United Nations. Some of these do very good work. I am aware, as are other honourable members in this chamber, that today is United Nations Day. At the same time I cannot refrain from making the observation, although the United Nations organisation has, in many respects, done good work it is in certain other quite important respects wide open to criticism, particularly on account of the double standards that it adopts. 
Other major recipients of aid, according to Table 5 of the White Paper which has been distributed to honourable members, include the World Food Program, the South Pacific Commission, the International Rice Research Institute, the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation and the South Pacific Air Transport Council. They are all important organisations. Table 7 of the White Paper shows the net financial resource transfers to developing countries as a percentage of gross national product during the years 1969 to 1972. The target of one per cent of gross national product as an annual contribution by the various donor countries was in fact exceeded by Australia by a substantial margin in 1970 and in 1971. In 1972 I notice we fell somewhat short of the one per cent target, although our performance was still well above the average. 
The White Paper points out that the present method of assessing relative aid performance leaves much to be desired because of reservations concerning a government's ability to convert its policy intentions with respect to net financial resource transfers into actual disbursements to developing countries. It is suggested that a far more meaningful measure of the relative aid performance of individual donor countries is provided by the percentage of gross national product which each country donates to official development assistance. According to data published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - known as OECD - Australia ranked fourth in the world in each of the last 3 years with figures well above the average. The donor countries are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Some very significant countries are noticeably absent from this list of donors. 
Table 6, which summarises the rapid growth in expenditure by Australia on external, economic and defence aid programs over the years, shows that we have a record of which we can well be proud. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has received a request from the Queensland Government for financial assistance in respect of the extensive damage to many Brisbane homes and shops during the recent tornado. If not, will the Government provide the usual dollar for dollar assistance allocated for disaster areas when a request for help has been received? 
Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member will withdraw that term and cease interjecting. 
The 'Australian Financial Review* of 29 October last, in discussing this legislation in its editorial, had this to say: 
The important thing is that the Australian economy badly needs effective measures to deal with anticompetitive agreements, and the Murphy Bill effectively gets at the restrictive core of current trade practice: price agreements, none of which can be said to be good for the economy or gain to consumers. 
Delaying the implementation of strong and workable trade practice laws has proved disastrous in the past and left us in the position of having a flaccid and moribund mechanism. 
That is what the 'Australian Financial Review' thought of the previous Government's legislation which was extolled this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The editorial continued: 
If  Mr Snedden  wants a comprehensive antiinflationary policy he could do well to support the Trade Practices Bill which is one facet of that comprehensiveness. 
At the same time he would give substance to the Liberal Party claim that it supports  competilon  and strong laws to ensure fair trading. 
Of course, we have seen the result this afternoon. That sound advice has fallen on deaf ears. 
The legislation foreshadowed last year by the Liberal-Country Party Government was cumbersome and ineffective. The Leader of the Opposition does not believe it proper to give the courts powers to legislate, as he puts it; but he sees nothing wrong with the actions in the past which give to the Commissioner of Taxation enormous legislative powers in dealing with tax assessments. He sees nothing wrong with the long history of giving to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the power to legislate. If it were left to the Parliament to legislate for every restrictive trade practice that could be thought of all round the world, the legislation would be completely ineffective, particularly as the Opposition insists on having notice of a year or two before wanting to debate or decide on anything. The courts have a discretion now under many statutes, and it is proper that they should have. It is the essence of British justice that the courts should have a discretion in such matters. 
Effective competition makes it harder to put prices up and make it more necessary to pursue increased efficiency to keep down the costs that affect prices. To the extent that effective competition is inhibited by restrictive trade practices, inflationary trends are the harder to stop or slow down. But quite apart from the question of inflation, it seems now to be widely accepted that the restrictions on competition in Australia call for legislation that states a firmer policy in relation to them and provides procedures for tis effective implementation. 
So much for the scramble by the Leader of the Opposition to obtain some comfort from the report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. The current legislation is defective. It is too slow and cumbersome. To the multinational corporations, it is a toothless monster. 
The Commissioner of Trade Practices has an establishment of only 85 positions, and only 81 people are presently employed. But there are 12,360 operative agreements on the register. The whole procedure that applies at present is wrong. Those who wish to engage in restrictive trade practices should show the community that it is not against the public interest to do so. We are living in a time when the economy is finely balanced. Many sections are inter-dependent. This community cannot afford to allow exploitation or unfair trading. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has correctly drawn attention to the dramatic difference between dealing with giant global corporations and the transactions which occur in what he calls the 'village market'. It is common ground throughout the industrially developed world that more effective legislation is required to combat the effects of monopolies, and particularly the multi-national corporations. 
Opposition members now shed crocodile tears on behalf of consumers - the same consumers they left almost defenceless against the economically evil practices of trade restriction for almost a generation. They pose as defenders of consumer interests. But, when it comes to dealing with the problem, they claim that they need more time. The right to procrastinate while the consumer is left unprotected for all practical purposes is their real claim. This Bill contains a number of provisions which will benefit the Australian economy, assist the development of Australian industry by ensuring fair competition, inhibit the growth of monopolies which are against the public interest, and give more adequate protection to consumers. 
Part IV of the Bill - clauses 45 to 51 - deals effectively with restrictive trade practices. Contracts, combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade are prohibited. The obligations are in clear and concise terms for everyone to understand. Monopolisation is severely limited, and unfair practices are prohibited. Exclusive dealing is prohibited. Resale price maintenance is outlawed. Price discrimination is banned. Mergers designed to diminish competition also are proscribed. All of these provisions are in clear and precise terms. Clause 51 allows for exceptions which make clear provision for the guidelines required by the Opposition, in that it sets out the factors which shall not be taken into account. 
Part V of the Bill deals with consumer protection. Unfair practices are clearly stated. Nobody - even those who wished to do so - could possibly misunderstand their meaning and effect. Part VI provides for enforcement and remedies. The courts may impose a penalty not exceeding $250,000. It is important that legislation of this kind, which is designed to combat monopolies and corporations of the size we are dealing with, should provide penalties which are not akin to a petty cash item. The power for individuals to act is another important consideration. Individuals have power to act by way of injunction or to sue for damages. That is the basic right of every citizen in our community. Whether or not an action is to be taken should not be left to political or quasi-political decision exclusively. Part VII permits the Commission to allow restrictive practices which may be shown to be in the public interest. The onus is fairly and properly placed in respect of this provision. Part IX provides for appeals against the decision of the Commission. A fair and reasonable procedure is laid down for the determination of such appeals. 
This is a Bill designed to protect Australia and Australian residents. The arguments put forward by the Opposition are shallow and are designed to create a political smokescreen. Honourable members opposite claim to lack a full understanding of what is intended. They state that they have had insufficient time to grasp fully all of the implications. They should realise that the days of this Parliament acting with the pace of a slow and leisurely country club are over. This is a fast moving legislature where hard work is required. Tired old men who cannot work at the pace required will have to make way for others. The Australian community expects  action and it  will recei that action which is desired quickly to protect the community interest. I put it to the House that this legislation is designed to protect all sections of the public interest.  I  commend it to the House and hope it will be carried and become law without undue delay. 
My Committee colleagues on this side of the House have suggested that I should rise on their behalf as well as for myself to indicate our support of the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I join with him in expressing our sincere regret at the tragic and untimely death of  Mr Tier  and in offering our deepest sympathy to his family and relatives. 
When  Mr Tier  about 3 weeks ago appeared as a witness before the Committee of Privileges his attitude could not have been more helpful or co-operative. He came readily of his own accord and immediately he willingly accepted full responsibility for that premature publication in the 'Sun' newspaper of Tuesday, 18 September 1973. 
Having said that, I should like to invite attention to one or two other matters, particularly paragraph 15 at the top of page 6 of the Committee's report. This paragraph expressed the very grave concern with which the Committee viewed the action of the unknown person who made available to a journalist,  Mr O'Reilly,  the recommendations of the parliamentary committee dealing with the stabilisation of meat prices. As all honourable members know, under standing order 340 of this House this premature disclosure was a clear breach of privilege and a contempt of the Parliament. The Committee regards the action that led to the premature publication of the recommendations referred to, 2 days in fact before the actual presentation of the report to the House, as one of the utmost seriousness. It is a matter of very great regret that the person concerned cannot be identified, thus enabling the House to take appropriate action against him. If by any chance the culprit - and I call him that - were indeed a member of this Parliament, he would, as honourable members know, be subject to very stringent action and the consequences to him could be dire indeed. He was, to borrow a legal expression, the causa causans of the whole episode. If it had not been for the premature disclosure by this unknown person to  Mr O'Reilly,  we would not have had to hold this privilege inquiry and we would not be speaking today on the report submitted by the Committee. Therefore the responsibility devolving on this unknown person, whoever he may be, is a very heavy one indeed and I hope that his conscience pricks him hard. 
The second point to which I refer concerns the membership of the Committee of Privileges. If honourable members look at the top of the first page of the report before dealing with the report itself, under the heading 'Membership of the Committee' they will see that in addition to the  Chairman,  who is the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby),  other members of the Committee were the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  a former 
Minister who is at present overseas, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who is the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who was the former  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. Under the Westminster system of parliamentary government the Committee of Privileges has always been regarded as one of the most important committees of the House, if not the most important. Of course, in essence the purpose of parliamentary privilege is to give such protection as may be necessary to enable honourable members to carry out their duties on behalf of their constituents and the nation and to uphold the dignity of the parliamentary institution. We all know that the front bench members on both sides of the House are extremely busy men who carry a heavy load of responsibility and a big work load every day, whether the House is sitting or not. I pay a compliment to those very senior members of this House who make, their time available to serve on this important Committee. I should very much like to see participation in this work by more senior members on this side of the House in accordance with the best Westminster tradition. 
Finally, I pay a tribute to the new Chairman of the Committee for the capable way in which he has handled his task. As one who occupied this position for a number of years, I am very conscious indeed of the delicate and sometimes difficult situations with which a Chairman of this Committee can be confronted. 
 Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197311222_50_3.jpg"></graphic>

Depreciation does not take account of obsolescence. The Australian farmer has a reputation for being among the most efficient in the world. He has gained this reputation through harnessing modern technical knowledge to practical experience. It is rather odd to claim that they do not change their machinery within 10 years and their buildings within 50 years. The yield devisor remains at 20.25 bushels an acre. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics, in a publication dated May 1973, indicated that with the exception of New South Wales average wheat production per farm was lower than in the 1967 survey. Wheat yield per acre sown in 1972 was 17.9 bushels, 20.7 bushels in 1967 and 18.1 bushels in 1962. The average wheat production per farm in the respective years was 8,848 bushels, 9,731 bushels and 6,790 bushels. Theoreticians have to be made to realise that Australia is a dry land; that rains do not come but droughts, rust and frosts do. The average yield should not be as high as it is. Of course there is no need to spell out that the lower the yield, the higher the cost per bushel to produce. But these are facts and we cannot change facts. 
As stated above, if the owner-operator's allowance was a movable factor the cost of wheat would have been higher. By being denied natural justice the community have been subsidised by the wheatgrowers. Incidentally, the people of Australia should be told the truth concerning subsidisation of the industry. The consumer of wheat and wheat products is protected within Australia both in respect to price and availability. Subsidisation to the consumer of wheat in Australia both in the past and the foreseeable future cannot be over-emphasised. As an example it is reliably estimated for the season 1973-74, with the Australian housewife having the advantage of purchasing bread based on a price of wheat at $1.93 a bushel, she is receiving wheat at almost $2 per bushel less in comparison with the ruling world price. On the amount so utilised this represents a subsidy1 to the Australian consumer of bread of at least $80m for the year 1973-74. Of course history records that in previous years a similar position existed. One can recall cheap wheat for the Australian people for 6s 8d per bushel when the overseas price was approximately £1 per bushel. The Government has paid into stabilisation a sum of $299,236,000 since the inception of stabilisation but the growers have contributed in an effort to level out the peaks and the troughs, the sum of $172,015,000. When one also adds the enormous amount of cheap wheat for local use over many years, it is no idle boast that the industry has been subsidising the population. To deny this is simply to refuse to face up to the truth and to resort to cheap political gimmickry. In an economy where the quality of Australian life is protected by long service leave, arbitration courts, tariffs and subsidies I am not prepared to stand idly by while members of the rural sector are denied this same quality of life. They are not second class citizens as the actions of the Labor administration would seem to indicate. We of the Country Party maintain that the same allowances for increased leisure should be inbuilt into the cost factor of establishing the cost of production of wheat. 
I remind the disciples who sit opposite and seek to downgrade the rural sector that the rural sector is still on its knees following years  of drought, low prices, and costs over which it had no control. Debts are being repaid, but I point out that a recent survey into the farming sector shows that the annual rate of return on capital on wheat farms now stands at 4.1 per cent, having declined from 5.9 per cent in 1967 and 9.4 per cent in 1962. Wheat production is lower per farm, the overall area sown to wheat for grain has slowed markedly and farm receipts still leave much to be desired. With the world crying out for wheat and staple foods we should be encouraging production not reducing it. 
I have long marvelled at the fact that there has never been a flow on to the wheat industry of the principle of the margin of profit factor which is part and parcel of every day commercial life. Why is this not passed on to the wheat industry? This industry is part of the Australian population, not apart from it. I submit that when the new stabilisation scheme is being negotiated this should be included. How else can an industry exist without some effort to" cushion the effects of costs being up and returns down? -The Country Party, of course, supports 'the moves which assure long term outlets for ' our 'primary products on a commercial basis and riot as a deliberate instrument of foreign policy. But we stand for agreements which do not deny supplies  to  traditional buyers for many years, and we condemn too great dependence on countries which have proved in the past that they will buy only when it suits them. It is timely to remind the Labor Party that in September last year the Australian Wheat Board sold to the People's Republic of China one million tons of wheat. I understand that a similar quantity has been negotiated this year. I make the point that this sale was finalised during the life of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Incidentally, total sales to the People's Republic of China over the past 10 years have been 16,485,600 tons. This gives a veritable rebuttal to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry as he then was, who said that the only body which could negotiate long term contracts with the People's Republic of China was a Labor Administration. I congratulate the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  on the magnificent contribution he has made in selling wheat to the People's Republic of China over many years. He was one of the people who blazed the trail. He has made a contribution to the Australian wheat industry which does great credit to himself and to the Party to which he belongs. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table which shows the amount of wheat sold by the Australian Wheat Board without any government intervention during the period from 1963-64 to 1972-73. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197311222_51_4.jpg"></graphic>

if there is a State Board in the State - he shall be appointed by the Minister from amongst the members of the State Wheat Board, on nominations of the State Board; or 
if there is no State Board in the State - he shall be appointed by the Minister after being elected by wheat growers in the State in accordance with the regulations. 
The Minister has no say. He must do what the growers or the Board decide. I am totally opposed to this capricious action of the Minister in interfering with the elected representatives of the growers. The members are responsible to the growers - the growers elect them - and I say to the socialists opposite that the growers own the grain; keep your hands off it. 
Rumours are strong that the Labor machine intends to replace elected grower representatives with jobs for the boys. This is anathema to the industry and the very antithesis of what the industry wants. The crops have been marketed very successfully by people who are concerned and interested because it is their own property. Let it stay that way. We will not accept any breaking down of the status quo. The industry denies that the Australian Wheat Board has reneged on a contract, as has been implied by the Labor machine. That is an untruth and a deliberate misrepresentation. The Australian Wheat Board acted with great propriety and meticulous honesty. By his actions the credibility of the Minister will be forever in doubt. 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether he can give the House any progress information concerning the inquiry into the operations of the Post Office. 
There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. 
MrHURFORD -  believe that the forthcoming referendums on prices and incomes are of importance for the future development of effective economic policy in Australia. Several of us have studied the developments of prices and incomes policies overseas and have made contributions to the Australian debate on the Applicability of such policies in this country. 
The economists say so clearly that if the referenda on 8 December are not carried the opportunity will be lost for many years and therefore they advocate for a yes vote on both questions. Their views are so clearly put before this country and yet the  Deputy  Leader of the CountryParty drags up one lone voice in his arguments against them. 
Order! I have already asked honourable members to reduce the level of conversation inthe chamber. The honourable member is entitled to be heard in silence. 
We have been asked what controls we would like to bring in if these referenda are passed. I wish to draw attention to the work of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Bill establishing the Prices Justification Tribunal was fought in this House by the Opposition tooth and nail. Yet, there is now such independent testimony that the Tribunal is working, even by the 'Australian Financial Review' which looked askance at the Tribunal at the time its establishment was being considered. I draw attention to articles by  Mr Paul  Gardiner on 5 and 6 November. All this is unsolicited commendation for the work of the Prices Justification Tribunal. When the Tribunal looks into such matters as steel, paper or General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, which it is considering at the moment, and comes down with a recommendation the whole of the country has to wait to see whether the board of directors of the particular companies being investigated will accept the Tribunal's recommendations. What an absurd position this is. Of course we have to have powers in the central Government, powers which are possessed by every other country, powers which can be used when the Tribunal reports on the steel industry, the paper industry or even on General Motors-Holden's, to see that the Tribunal's recommendations are put into effect. That is one of the things that we want to do. We have not dragged this sort of attitude, this sort of philosophy, out of thin air. It is clearly following the philosophy, the work and the writings of Professor Galbraith who has pointed out that powers of price control over selected commodities are very important in this day and age when we are confronted with this complicated condition of inflation and when we need every weapon that we can possibly find to help fight it. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  brought up the price of land. All the States have the powers which we are seeking and which draw such a great terror in the minds of the Opposition. I repeat that the States already have these powers and yet apparently they are regarded as being horrible if the Commonwealth wants to have them and use them. It is the Australian Government which has the responsibility in the economic sphere. If only the States would co-operate with the Commonwealth in the lands commissions which the Minister has in mind we could achieve what we want. Even in the States which are controlled by a Labor government we find that the hostile Upper Houses are putting qualifications on the Bills passing through the State parliaments and which are designed to organise the supply of land in the way in which we believe it ought to be organised and are making the legislation very difficult to administer. It would be a tremendous improvement for the people of this country if only the Commonwealth had these powers and was able to do something with them. 
When it comes to the income power alone, we all agree that industrial disharmony is causing wastages and indeed is one of the causes of inflation. It is terribly important to increase the supply of goods if we are to do something about the supply-demand equation. One of the reasons for the disharmony is that the men and women of the work force are not catching up with prices. We all, I believe, wish to legislate for periodic cost of living adjustments. This is another thing that will be worth while. I do not wish to draw attention only to the arguments put forward by this side of the House. I draw attention once again to these 16 economists I mentioned. I draw attention to the leading article of the 'Australian' on 21 November. I am glad that we have had this opportunity in this place to put these arguments. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
Order! I point out that under the Standing Orders the practice is for the debate to be adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, in order to curb the inflationary spiral, it is necessary that productivity growth be kept reasonably in line with wage and salary increases. 
How does productivity growth since December 1972 compare with wage and salary increases during the same period. 
Is leave granted? Opposition members - No. 
No point of order is involved. In the first place, a point of order must be raised immediately, at the time of the incident. The honourable member did not raise the point of order at the time the matter was mentioned by the honourable member for Cook. Secondly, as I see it, this is a matter for the Government. It is not a matter for the Chair. It does not relate to a point of procedure. Therefore, there is no substance in the point of order. 
Can the Treasurer indicate to the House when the report of the Asprey Committee in relation to the tax structure is likely to be available? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is the amendment seconded? 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that radio beacons floating on buoys are being used to guide high speed craft picking up hard drugs and sex drugs dropped from overseas ships in the waters of the Great Barrier Reef? Will he ensure that suitable steps are taken to prevent these activities if, in fact, they are taking place? 
These Bills are intended to assist the States of Queensland and New South Wales in meeting .the very heavy cost of relief and restoration measures following the catastrophic floods between January and March this year which spelt hardship and ruin for so many of our fellow citizens. Some Federal Ministers came to Brisbane at the height of the floods to see the situation for themselves and to make their own assessment. But I must say that there was much disappointment on the part of the people of Brisbane and Queensland that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as the head of the Australian Government, did not manage to come to Brisbane until much later, and then only for a very brief stopover. However, there is nothing partisan in these measures or in the measures taken by this Government or by the Governments of Queensland and New South Wales. They represent, I believe, a worthy contribution to helping to alleviate the distress and the loss caused by a national disaster of very great magnitude. I am sure that these 2 Bills have the support of both sides of the House. ( 
I was glad that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  referred to the splendid work done by the defence forces and the many voluntary organisations which came so quickly and effectively to help those in distress. There is, however, a need for closer co-ordination of effort in some areas in the event of some future emergency. I believe that this need is recognised and that something is being done about it. I know personally of some acts of real heroism at the height of the floods, as well as of many individual acts of considerable self-sacrifice. These acts may not go down in any official records, but they prove the fine spirit of good fellowship and the feeling of genuine compassion that exist in the Australian community when a real need arises. 
As well as the losses suffered by many home owners, of course, major losses were incurred by many business firms and primary producers and many public assets such as bridges and roads were damaged very badly. . The Treasurer indicated, quite rightly, that a great many people were not adequately covered by insurance. This is an important matter. Offers from insurance companies to discuss the inclusion of cover for natural disasters is most welcome - indeed, overdue. Many home owners were dismayed to find that, except in respect of defence service homes, cover for damage by storm and tempest does not cover damage by floods. There is some legal opinion to the contrary, and perhaps this interpretation finally will have to be cleared up in the courts. 
The flood in south-eastern Queensland was by far the most serious since 1893, and it points up the need for urgent steps to be taken to deal with flood mitigation. I well remember that, when the Somerset Dam was built in the Brisbane Valley years ago, the people of Brisbane were led to believe that another disastrous flood of major proportions could not occur in Brisbane or in the surrounding districts. In the electorate which I represent there are a number of creeks, including Kedron Brook, Enoggera Creek and Ithaca Creek. Talks have been proceding for quite a long time among government and municipal authorities on the subject of flood mitigation. But not nearly enough has - been done about it. There are very many residents in affected areas who believe that it is high time that something positive and effective was done regarding the mitigation of flood waters, and I heartily agreed with them. I hope that the recent unhappy experiences will lead to an early decision on this very important matter. 
I submit that there is a good case for extending the repayment terms for loans made to small business owners and the time for payment of provisional taxation and for the restoration of sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. There are individual cases of hardship and distress which have not been fully alleviated by existing provisions. I hope very much that, with the allocation of the funds being made available under these 2 Bills, all of these cases will be taken care of. Attached to the Treasurer's speeches on these 2 Bills are details of categories of estimated expenditure, indicating the amounts that will be made available by this Government to the States of Queensland and New South Wales respectively. They are set out in relation to the Queensland Flood Relief Bill under the headings: Personal Hardship and Distress; Private Housing; Primary Producers; Business; Local Government Assets; State Assets; and Other Measures. 
Let me say a few words about matters under the heading 'Other Measures'. These consist of grants to cover the cost of repair and restoration of assets of the University of Queensland and the colleges of advanced education. The estimated cost is $lm. I have some reservations as to whether this sum is completely adequate, having made a personal inspection of the whole of the campus of the University of Queensland just after the height of the floods, in company with the ViceChancellor and some of the senior members of his staff. The damage was most extensive, both to buildings and equipment. Losses were severe. Although an immense amount of restoration work had already been carried out at the time of my inspection, I formed the opinion that in respect of the University of Queensland alone the loss would probably run into 7 figures. 
The amount of $66m which is provided for by the Queensland Flood Relief Bill which we are now debating is SI 4m less than the earlier estimate announced by the Treasurer. But the Treasurer has explained that this figure of $66m is based on the most recent estimates of costs supplied by the Queensland Government. So we must assume that this total is adequate to meet the cost of all the relief and restoration measures that are being undertaken. The New South Wales Flood Relief Bill proposes an allocation of up to $5. 5m for similar purposes. The details are set out under 5 headings, similar in most respects to those in the Queensland Flood Relief Bill. I have much pleasure in supporting these 2 Bills. 
Is leave granted? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government is taking appropriate action to counter any violence arising from terrorist activities in this country. Will he assure the House that the Government will not allow the Palestine Liberation Organisation to establish an information centre in Australia? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197407162_38_4.jpg"></graphic>

In recognition of the need to achieve a broad degree of multilateral support for the Fund, including the participation of all the major potential contributors, provision has been made for each of the 2 stages to become effective only when specified proportions of the respective targets for contributions have been reached. Stage one recently became effective and the Asian Development Fund is deemed to have been formally established. It is proposed that under the first stage Australia would commit $US18m to the ADB before 31 December 1974 and pay this amount over by 30 June 1975. Our contribution of $US9m under the second stage would be committed to the ADB on or before 30 June 1975 and be paid over by 31 December 1975. Australia has the option of paying the above contributions either in cash or by lodging non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing promissory notes which will be encashed on demand as and when the funds are actually required by the ADB. In accordance with the practice Australia has adopted in the past with respect to similar contributions to both the ADB and the International Development Association, we propose to follow the second course. This will limit the impact of our contribution on the Budget for 1974-75 and also in the year thereafter. Implementation of the ADB's proposals means that, in future, the funds required by the Bank for its concessional lending operations will be mobilised on an organised, multilateral basis and should be regularly replenished with uniform terms and conditions for all contributors. 
Honourable members will know that Australia has always been a strong and active supporter of the Asian Development Bank because of our concern to help raise the living standards in nearby developing countries in (he Asian and Pacific regions. Our subscrip tion to the Bank's capital stock - which currently amounts to $&gt;US256.4m, although only $US82m is actually payable - is the third largest at the present time. We have also contributed $US 13.7m to other ADB Special Funds in the past. I am confident that the new Asian Development Fund will constitute an efficient and effective way of chanelling aid on concessional terms to developing countries in our part of the world. Since I firmly believe it to be in Australia's national interests to continue to support the ADB by contributing $A18.15m, or the equivalent of $US27m, to this Fund over the next 18 months or so, I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 

Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197407254_83_0.jpg"></graphic>

Something about which I am concerned and about which I know the Minister for Social Security is concerned is the welfare of those pensioners who are at the very bottom of the rung - for instance, the ones who do not own their own homes. Many cases have been brought to my attention of pensioners who are in receipt of just the minimum rate of pension having to pay rents of up to $30 a week. The supplementary pension is simply not enough at the moment. It will have to be increased rapidly if it is to help those on the very base rate. We must remember also in trying to assist pensioners that roughly 50 per cent of the pensioners in Australia receive nothing but the pension or the pension plus an income of up to $5 a week. Now that abolition of the means test is within sight, although I do not know whether it will take place in April, June or October of next year, we should turn our attention to those groups of pensioners who are without their own homes and who have very little other than the base rate of pension that they receive. We will have to help them by way of, perhaps, the provision of a rate allowance and various other benefits. Because of the tapered means test and the abolition of the means test there are now some pensioners who are doing quite well but there are a lot more - the group about which I am now talking - who are very seriously disadvantaged. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the strength and composition of the Australian (a) Navy, (b) Army and (c) Air Force as at 2 December 1972. 
What is the strength and composition of these Forces at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Customs and Excise placed an order with a Sydney firm for the purchase of aluminium boats approximately 50 feel in length. 
If so, what is the total cost of purchase. 
Were tenders called prior to placing the order; if not, why not. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
ADJUSTMENTS OF CHARGES FOR POSTAL AND TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES 1974 
telecommunication services 

<graphic href="090131197009173_193_64.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_193_65.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_194_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_194_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_195_68.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_196_69.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_197_70.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_198_71.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_199_72.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_200_73.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197009173_201_74.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmithSpecial Minister of State)- With the indulgence of the Chair, may I say that I was misrepresented to the extent that the honourable member for Moore said that I did not listen to what was said. I listened to what was said. The honourable member was the only one who made out that there was political motivation. I say that that is not so; the motion was moved for the reasons set out in the Constitution and for the reasons that have motivated 2 other Parliaments, the British and the Canadian parliaments, to do something about this matter. It is as simple as that. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
In paragraph 12 after the word 'period' insert the words 'not later than 90 days after the members of the committee are appointed.' 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
-I wish to speak briefly tonight on a defence matter. As a matter of courtesy I sent to the office of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  a telephone message to let him know that I was proposing so to do. This afternoon I received some very disturbing news from Brisbane which indicates a further downturn in the effectiveness of our defence forces. I am informed that a large mobile army exercise known as 'Latin Forum' and involving troops from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Malaysia, which was scheduled to take place today in the Charleville-Quilpie area of Queensland, had to be cancelled at short notice owing to insufficiency of fuel. I ask the Minister for Defence- perhaps the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  would be good enough to convey this request to him- whether he will at the first opportunity advise the House whether he has any information that he can give regarding this report. 
The incident- assuming that the information I have received today is correct, and I have no reason whatever to doubt its authenticity- is the latest development in what can only be described as a steadily deteriorating state of affairs affecting the safety and security of Australia. I believe the Minister himself- knowing him well as I do- must be concerned, along with many other members of this Parliament, and indeed with a great many other Australian citizens, representing virtually all shades of political opinion except the extreme left wing unions and those who support the revolutionary socialist left which, as we all know, is dedicated to the complete overthrow of our present social order. In a Press release dated 9 September 1974 the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  who is the shadow Minister for Defence, mentioned that a few days earlier he had been in Darwin and several Fills and a squadron of Mirages had been prevented from returning to their home bases in Queensland and New South Wales. 
Australia, as we all know, has a very long coastline. I think it is about 12,000 miles. Now it is more unprotected than ever because Royal Australian Navy patrol boats based in Northern Queensland are unable to exercise proper surveillance. I was speaking recently to a naval officer in Sydney at a private gathering. He told me that, because of industrial disputes, several RAN vessels could not be dry-docked for refitting and repair because of the actions of certain left wing maritime unions. Clearly, militant extremists in Australia are sabotaging our defences. I appeal to the Minister and to the Government to take strong steps to deal with the industrial lawlessness which is weakening and undermining the safety and security of millions of decent, law-abiding Australians. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has received details of the nuclear bomb explosion testing reported to have taken place in India about 3 months ago. As the success of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty depends on the effective containment of nuclear testing, I ask whether Australia has made any protest. 
-I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the Bills now before the House which deal with posts and telegraphs. 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who led for the Opposition parties in this debate, contrasted the attitude of the Opposition on this occasion with its attitude to these proposals when they were last before the Parliament. On that occasion, the Opposition parties in the Senate decided to use their numbers to prevent this Government from obtaining the passage of the legislation proposing increased postal charges as they were detailed in what is commonly known as the 'mini-Budget' which was introduced in July this year. On this occasion the Opposition parties take a different attitude and will allow these measures to be passed. 
Members of the Opposition must bear in mind that their decision to prevent the passage of these measures in July is the major contributing factor why some additional charges had to be added on this occasion. The reasons for those increases in postal charges have been explained by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The new ordinary letter rate of 9c, proposed in July, has been increased to 10c in this legislation. I instance that in explanation of what the real situation is. 
The action of the Senate in July with respect to these charges is typical of how the Opposition has behaved, particularly since the last election. It operates somewhat as a government in exile. 
Its action in the Senate in July in rejecting the measures introduced by the Government showed it was behaving in a rather irresponsible fashion. This was well known and publicly proclaimed in those days not just by speakers from the Government side in this House and in the Senate but in fact by the national Press. 
It was well recognised in those days that the decision by the Government was a responsible one. It was in keeping with the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the Premiers Conference on 7 June when he let the Premiers know quite clearly that the attitude of this Government would be to ensure that it made departments providing public services, such as the Post Office, pay their way. He also clearly indicated to the Premiers that he would expect that they would balance their budgets, would make a real effort to see that departments in the various States which were expending large sums of money would adopt a more responsible attitude, and would make sure that they were able to raise revenue to match that expenditure. So, the decision announced by the Prime Minister at that Premiers Conference, when he made it publicly known that the appropriation for the Post Office in the 1974-75 Budget would be held at last year's level of $385m, was instrumental in ensuring that the legislation came forward as quickly as possible. It was introduced into this chamber in our July sittings. 
We have today the need to consider fresh legislation because the Government was prevented in July from enacting the legislation proposing those increased charges. It is all very well for the Opposition to claim that on this occasion it is going to do a great service by allowing the Government's legislation to pass and to become law, while pointing out the injustices of the increase. It is as well to remind the Opposition that some proportion of the charges which were proposed in the July measures and which are repeated in these measures are charges the introduction of which was delayed for over 12 months by the then Postmaster-General- the present Special Minister of State sitting at the table- as those measures were to be associated with the 1973-74 Budget which, I would remind honourable members, was the first Budget of this Labor Government. 
The then Postmaster-General clearly indicated to the House that definite proposals had been put forward to the previous PostmasterGeneral they were documented and made available to  Mr Lionel  Bowen as PostmasterGeneral when he assumed that responsibility; and it was he who made these disclosures- to provide for increases of between 25 per cent and 30 per cent in postal charges. If the LiberalCountry Party Government had remained in office following the 1972 election, those new charges would have been introduced in the 1973-74 Budget. But the imposition of those charges, proposed for that Budget, were held over by this Government. It is only now that the Government has faced the need to increase the various postal and other charges associated with these charges. 
Some of the money problems that confront us today in the administration of the Post Office are shortly to be overcome. This will result from the responsible decision made by this Government soon after it came to power to appoint a royal commission to inquire into the Australian Post Office. The report of that royal commission is well known to honourable members and the decision of the Government following the receipt of that report is well known also. Before very long, legislation will be introduced to provide for the restructuring of what we know today as the various services of the Post Office into 2 separate commissions. While that action will not solve all the problems of the Post Office, it will go a long way towards solving some of the problems that have been commented on by honourable members opposite and also some of the problems that we recognise do exist today. There is no running away from the fact that the charges that have been introduced in these measures have been introduced in an effort to adopt a responsible attitude towards the need of the Post Office to pay its way, to ensure that it is able to meet its commitments from the charges it imposes. We reject absolutely the principle we saw put into operation so often by the previous Government of making the taxpayers foot the bill for some of the very privileged measures that were introduced from time to time. Some of those measures prevented people in electorates such as the one I represent getting what might be referred to as a fair share of the Post Office cake. For a number of years I sat in this chamber and in Budget after Budget saw the situation of my electorate of Bowman- and in general the position in Queensland followed a similar pattern- deteriorate year by year. Year by year the provision of telephone services to people in outlying metropolitan areas clearly got worse and worse. I dealt with this at some length in a previous Budget debate, in 1972 I think. On that occasion the estimated demand in the previous year for telephone services of 33,250 had fallen some 4,000 short of the actual demand of over 37,000. I ascertained from available statistics that this was a general pattern and it has got worse and worse year by year. When I sought a reasonable explanation for this through various means available to me I found that the obvious answer was that people in these areas were not being given the share of the Budget that they should have been getting. They were not being given the opportunity to have the lines and the services made available to them through the establishment of new telephone exchanges, simply because of the discriminatory policies of the previous Government. 
I refer particularly to the famous country line program that was introduced. It was introduced unashamedly by the then Postmaster-General at the behest of the Country Party to provide a measure of service to country areas. I am sure we would all recognise that it was good to be able to provide some service for them but this measure of service was provided in a fashion that discriminated most severely against the people in the metropolitan fringe areas and in many other developing areas throughout the length and breadth of Australia, to the extent that they just could not get telephones. They waited the unreasonable time of 4 years or more for the simple connection of a telephone to their homes. 
I am particularly pleased to see that finally, after all the years I have been watching the situation, a point was reached in Queensland where the demand for 1973-74 was just about a line ball with the estimated demand. The estimated demand disclosed in the previous Budget Papers was for 57,000 connections in Queensland- I refer to applications for telephone services involving the provision of new lines or equipment. The actual demand for 1973-74 amounted to 56,151 telephones, so finally, because of the introduction of policies by this Government, the people in these areas are starting to get a fair go. They are getting to a point where they have a reasonable chance of getting a telephone. It is not just my opinion that the reason they were at a disadvantage previously was that the PostmasterGeneral was prepared to instruct his officers to give preference to very expensive connections of services to remote station properties. This was obvious from the information available to us. I refer to a letter I received from the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Brisbane dated 13 July 1972 in reply to representations I had made about telephone services in the metropolitan area that had been delayed for a considerable time. The letter said: 
It is agreed that the preferred arrangement would be to build-up adequate, resources within the Department and this is being done to the maximum extent possible, within the limitations of available finance. 
The Director went on to disclose the realities of the situation by saying: 
The position is particularly acute in Queensland in comparison to other States - 
And well I knew that from the fact that we were falling further and further behind year by year when comparing demand to estimated demand. He continued: 
The position is particularly acute in Queensland in comparison to other States as we have had a relatively high level of demand for telephone service over a lengthy period. 
I recognise that also. The letter went on to say: 
The recent legislation governing the provision of rural telephone services has also resulted in a hugedepartmenta commitment in Queensland relative to most other States. 
Clearly, the representations of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  whom I understand was principally responsible for the introduction of the discrimination in favour of country lines, were successful in respect of the area about which he was concerned at the expense of areas such as those represented by me and the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Robinson),  whom I know would readily agree with me about the problems confronting people in the fringe metropolitan areas in obtaining telephone services. I am not saying that the problem has been entirely solved but I am delighted to see that a situation exists now where finally we have caught up with demand. We can look forward now to seeing people moving into homes in the new suburbs of our cities being able to get telephones in the relatively near future with the same ease as they are able to get water or electricity laid on. As far as I am concerned, this essential service should be available to them as readily as other services. There is absolutely no excuse for this not being so. 
I do not want to indicate that I am laying the entire blame for the situation on the administration of the Post Office. I recognise that there is a real problem, particularly in respect of some subdivisions that are developed by the types of developers who completely lack any conscience in these matters. I am sure most honourable members, when driving past residential developments, have seen the very attractive billboards as claiming 'AH services available- telephone, light, electricity, gas, etc.'. Unfortunate young couples buy these blocks of residential land not thinking that they are buying anything other than what is put forward to them on the attractive brochures they get or on the attractive hoardings showing the alleged delights of the sites they are about to purchase. They do not realise that they are being hoodwinked by the developers, many of whom have not even bothered to contact the Post Office to find out if these services are available. The developers believe they can mislead the purchasers of the land, who unknowingly take them at their word, purchase the land and find that the services are not available. 
I think I mentioned this point to the Minister previously when he held the portfolio. As he now represents the Postmaster-General in this chamber I might suggest it to him again. I ask that he take whatever action it is possible for him to take to see that there is a better liaison between the local authorities and the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I ask that he explore every avenue available to hin to see whether it is possible for the local authorities to lay down some clear and definite terms for developers of new estates to ensure that where it is not possible for the Postmaster-General's Department to provide these services within a reasonable time- I agree that at times it may not be possiblethis is clearly indicated to the local authority and some enforcement or restriction is placed on the developers to ensure that they will tell the truth, the factual story, to people purchasing home sites. Purchasers of blocks of land would then know that a telephone connection would not be available. They would know that because of a lack of telephone exchange equipment, trunk line or minor equipment a telephone service might not be available for some years hence. If these details were known to purchasers the Department would be relieved of some burden of blame. Whilst I am happy to hear from my constituents many of them would be saved the trouble of ringing my office to find out that they have been hoodwinked and treacherously tricked by the developers. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I must point out that all interjections are out of order. 
For the first time urban services in those areas are being underwritten by the national Government. Something of the direct burden which has hitherto rested on the shoulders of the ratepayers in those areas is being relieved. The honourable gentleman made the extraordinary statement that the Prime Minister had dishonoured his promise to provide assistance for local government. Yet I was able to demonstrate to the honourable gentleman- and he at that stage had the grace to admit that I was right- that $56m had been made available to local government in this country, not repayable grants, but in nonrepayable, interest free grants. They had been made available by the Australian Government on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  upon his initiative in presenting this Bill to the House today. Some time ago the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  presented a Bill.  Senator Wright  last year presented a Bill in the Senate but, as I recall it, it did not come to this House. I believe, together with both honourable members opposite, who have shown a distinct interest in this matter, that the time has come when we need to make a decision one way or the other. In bringing this matter forward the honourable member for Burke has taken a positive step towards the ultimate construction of a permanent parliament house. I am one who believes, as Walter Burley Griffin believed and as many members of the Parliament believe, that the proper place for it is on Camp Hill. I feel we have reached the stage where the predominant matter for us to decide is whether we will make the necessary decision. 
The question of the site, which I will have more to say about latter, while highly relevant is secondary to the decision to build a new and permanent parliament house. As the honourable member for Burke pointed out, the present provisional building was constructed on this site 47 years ago. It was designed to have a life of 50 years. As he quite correctly said, Walter Burley Griffin was very much opposed to the erection of this building on this site because he knew- and he was right in what he said as events have proved- that it would militate against the erection of a new and permanent parliament house or what he regarded as the correct site. It was from this site that he designed the whole city of Canberra with the ultimate parliament house at the apex of the parliamentary triangle and as the centre of the whole of his design. 
Unfortunately time has marched on. We have had many debates on this subject. I should imagine that the Hansard record covers many hundreds of pages of such debate in both the Senate and this House extending over many years, including recent years. I had the good fortune to serve on the Joint Select Committee for the New and Permanent Parliament House. I also had the good fortune to be one of a delegation which went overseas to inspect parliament houses in other countries and to learn what we could from them and so embody the very best we could find in the design for our new parliament house, not that we attempted actually to draw the design. We were endeavouring to ascertain to our own satisfaction and to prove to the Parliament exactly what was needed in a new parliament house- what it should contain in order to function with maximum efficiency for all concerned. I think all honourable members are agreed that the present building is now hopelessly inadequate in many respects despite extensive additions that have been made to it in recent years. It is unfortunate that various elements of the parliamentary staff have to be housed elsewhere in Canberra. This makes for inefficiency and also it is costly. The annual maintenance costs for this old and provisional building are very heavy. When one walks along some of the corridors they shake and quiver and one wonders whether one is going through the floor. When it rains various parts of the roof leak badly. These are only some of the disadvantages of this place. 
As all honourable members will recall, 3 sites have been debated. The first was the lakeside site which was ruled out by a decision of the Parliament. It then fell to a decision between Camp Hill and Capital Hill. I was most impressed last year with the feasibility study prepared by the National Capital Development Commission. It was introduced into the Parliament by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  It was a tremendous piece of work and I was impressed with the staged development that that feasibility study outlined. I agree with the honourable member for Burke when he says that for reasons of national sentiment, and perhaps for other reasons, this building will probably remain standing. I doubt very much whether public opinion would approve the demolition of this provisional Parliament House, even though we know that in many respects it is outmoded, inadequate and inefficient. Various suggestions have been made as to what could be done with it. I do not want to go into those. One suggestion is that it could be turned into a peace museum- a national museum to demonstrate what Australia has achieved in peacetime to match the War Memorial at the other end of the axis which demonstrates what Australia has achieved in times of war. No doubt there are other uses to which it could be put. 
I have been extremely interested in a basic paper prepared by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service. It is dated 27 March 1974. It is a thoughtful and detailed contribution. At page 23 under the heading 'Camp Hill versus Capital Hill ' it states: 
Canberra is indeed fortunate in having the luxury of choosing between such line sites as Camp Hill and Capital Hill, since both are spacious by world standards and both are highly integrated into the plan of the city. Although innumerable arguments have been raised favouring one or other of the sites, from the ability of elderly senators to ascend Capital Hill to its proximity to Heaven, the following are proposed as the most significant considerations, although not necessarily in order of importance: 
use or demolition of the present Parliament House, 
comparison of aspects from and towards the 2 sites, 
the wisdom of deviating from Griffin's plan- 
It, of course, has been deviated from in certain respects already. The Prime Minister's Lodge is not where Griffin suggested it should be nor is the Governor-General's residence where Griffin suggested it should be. It continues: 
iv) function for Capital Hill if Camp Hill is chosen. 
The paper argues that as Capital Hill is the predominant feature in this region of Canberra, being higher than Camp Hill by some 100 feet or more, the predominant architectural element, namely, the permanent parliament house should be placed upon it. Regardless of which site we may prefer I think we all would agree that no building should be allowed to overshadow the new parliament house when it is built. I hope that the Parliament will take care of that matter by legislative process. I very much like the idea of a parliamentary zone as was contained in the Bill put to the Parliament last year by  Senator Wright.  Honourable members may recall that the parliamentary zone was outlined in red in the Bill that  Senator Wright  introduced. I feel that the whole of the area- the Capital Hill area, the Camp Hill area and all the area in betweenshould be set aside by legislation for all time for parliamentary purposes or for such purposes as Parliament may decide. No other buildings should be allowed to be erected on any part of the parliamentary zone. I hope Parliament will see to it that this zone is protected. I believe it is most important that the Parliament make a decision in relation to a site without further delay, because this is preliminary to the whole exercise. 
One point that I think should be mentioned is the matter of cost, especially as we are in such an inflationary period at the moment; otherwise, I think members of the public might become alarmed if they think we are going so spend some vast sum of money on a new Parliament House right away. This is certainly not the case and I would not support such a proposition. I point out that experts in the National Capital Development Commission and others have stressed that there would be no major financial outlay for three or four years. The longer we put off the building of the new Parliament House, I think, the more expensive it will be. It is tremendously important that we keep that in mind. There is one means of overcoming the present deadlock on the matter. We have had several votes in the Parliament, both in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, and there have been occasions when the Senate voted for Capital Hill and this House voted for Camp Hill. Between us, we have really reached no conclusion. I feel that possibly the suggestion made on page 32 of the basic paper to which I referred earlier and from which I quoted may offer some assistance. It states: 
Griffin pointed out these difficulties - 
That is the difficulty of designing a building on Capital Hill-  but felt that they could be overcome if the site were finally chosen. If this is considered a major obstruction, perhaps it would be better to open a design competition using either site. Sometimes a more difficult proposition inspires the architect. If no acceptable designs were received for Capital Hill then Camp Hill would be chosen by default. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Treasurer aware of a strong reaction against his Department's proposal to increase the tax on lump sum superannuation benefits paid on retirement? When considering this proposal, will the Treasurer bear in mind that the imposition of such a tax would discourage people from saving for their old age and would cause many retired men and women hardship and a further falling off in their standard of living? 
-Table 22 in the Budget documents shows an estimated expenditure of $5,890,800, an increase of $1,293,623 over the actual expenditure for 1973-74. If one looks through the 29 departmental allocations shown in the table one finds that only four of them show a lower estimate than that of the Parliament. The four lower ones are the Department of the Environment and Conservation, the Department of Northern Development, the Department of Tourism and Recreation and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Of course most of these are relatively new departments. Parliament, on the other hand, is one of our oldest democratic institutions. It is one of the chief bastions of freedom that the people have and yet, like freedom itself, it is not sufficiently appreciated or valued. No doubt some of the blame for this rests with Parliament itself. By that I mean members of the Parliament because we are all human and we all have our weaknesses. Yet I believe there is great collective strength and dedication among those who sit here as the elected representatives of the people. 
A big percentage of the members and senators who comprise this Parliament have professional, academic or other qualifications which would enable them to obtain greater financial rewards in other spheres. Family life has to be sacrificed. We all accept these facts. If it were otherwise, a large number of those members who are here in the Parliament would not be here. I am very pleased that a move has been made to rationalise the committee system in the Parliament including, of course, the Senate. I have felt for a long time, and I am sure many other members of the chamber have felt the same way, that the committee system has got a little out of hand. It needs to be dovetailed and streamlined. Members are busy with an increasing volume of work to contend with both in the Parliament and in their electorates. 
It is essential that the committee system which, as we all know, is an important and integral part of the machinery of Parliament should function as efficiently, smoothly and effectively as is possible. A tremendous amount of important work is done by committees. It is a pity that the general public is not more aware of this important aspect of parliamentary work. I believe that it is very desirable that we should avoid becoming too bogged down, if I may use the phrase, in the committee system. While this is a very important aspect of parliamentary work and parliamentary life, it is, after all, only one of many aspects. I believe that the Senate has found that it has developed a committee system which has become too heavy in many respects and I would not like to see the House of Representatives follow a similar pattern. Nevertheless there is much room for improvement. 
I refer now to the matter of quorums. About 12 years ago I endeavoured, through the Standing Orders Committee of this House, to have the quorum reduced from 33 $ per cent of the membership to 20 per cent of the membership. Some honourable members will recall that about 3 years ago a Bill was introduced into this chamber. There was much argument about certain aspects of the BUI and, owing to an amendment, it feU by the wayside. I hope that the Government will revive this matter and introduce another Bill aimed at reducing the size of the quorum to a more sensible percentage. I believe that I am right in saying that the only other Parliament with a quorum requirement of 33  Vi  per cent of its members is the Lok Sabha of India. I believe our requirement needs to be reduced to what I have calculated to be the average, which is one-fifth or 20 per cent of members. Members of Parliament have many other duties, as I have said before, to attend to other than sitting in the chamber. 
With regard to questions without notice, I believe every honourable member in the chamber and most certainly  Mr Speaker  would agree that there is much room for improvement here. Chapter XI of the Standing Orders under the heading 'Questions Seeking Information' deals with questions without notice. I believe that we lose much of the value and significance of question time because of lengthy questions and, in many cases, far too lengthy answers by some Ministers- not all Ministers. In all honesty I must confess that this used to be the case also with some Ministers of the Liberal-Country Party Government. I am not saying that the fault is all on one side. In some cases questions are too lengthy from this side, as they were when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition. Undoubtedly answers have tended in many cases over recent years to be unnecessarily long. I propose to put a proposition to the House of Representatives Standing Orders Committee aimed at giving  Mr Speaker  a discretionary power in relation to both the length of questions and the length of answers by Ministers. 
A number of recommendations were made during the last Parliament by the Standing Orders Committee which has since been reconstituted in this Parliament. But unfortunately they have not yet been brought before us for debate. I hope that before too long the Standing Orders Committee will meet with a view to streamlining procedures and ironing out some of these problems. As I said, in particular I have in mind at the moment the making of better use of question time. Undoubtedly to the general public question time is the most interesting or certainly one of the most interesting sections of parliamentary procedure. It gives variety. If more questions were asked and better use were made of the time the public would enjoy question time much more than they do. 
With regard to the election of the presiding officer of the House I believe that there is some room for improvement. I should like very much in the fullness of time to see the elections treated with the dignity and decorum that befits the high office of the presiding officer. I believe that the party system of election robs the Chair of the atmosphere of impartiality and independence which is so eminently desirable. I believe that the House should endeavour to move towards the consensus method adopted traditionally by the 
Parliament at Westminster and followed in more recent years by the Canadian Parliament. 
I wish to say a few words about the televising of parliamentary proceedings. I believe that this should be strictly limited except on special occasions. I think it is undesirable to have parliamentary proceedings televised. I do not think it would be in the best interests of Parliament or of the nation to have proceedings televised other than on very strictly limited, very highly selected occasions. Prior to the joint sitting I had an open mind on this subject, but many honourable members I think would agree with me that during those 2 days there was an atmosphere of total artificiality, to say nothing of the acute physical discomfort caused to honourable members by the ultra-bright lights in the ceiling- lights which beat down incessantly upon us hour by hour for the whole period of the sittings. The 2 lecterns, one on either side of the Speaker's Chair, were unusual and again lent an atmosphere of artificiality. A number of honourable members from both sides were excluded from the list of speakers- members who by reason of their knowledge of the subject matter of the Bills being discussed should have been allowed to speak but were not allowed to do so, presumably because they were not regarded as good television performers. This again supports my point about artificiality. 
Finally, I should like to take the opportunity of paying a very sincere tribute to the officers of the Parliament, the library staff, the Joint House staff and the many other employees who serve the Parliament with real dedication. I also ought to place on record my appreciation of the efforts of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in providing better facilities for honourable members to assist them in performing their duties more efficiently. 
-I wish, first of all, to say that I support speakers from this side of the chamber in their remarks concerning the proposed explusion of South Africa from the United Nations and also what they have said concerning the Baltic states. What I wish to say this afternoon deals specifically with Australia's foreign aid program for 1974-75. If one looks at the Bills one finds that the total estimated expenditure for the current financial year is $425.9m- an increase of $63. lm over the actual expenditure in the last financial year, which totalled $362.7m. In the previous financial year, 1972-73, the actual expenditure was $277.5m. I cite these figures to demonstrate that there has been in fact a steady annual increase in the flow of overseas financial aid from Australia to developing countries. This steadily increasing allocation of public funds on the part of Australia under this heading reflects, I believe, our sincere desire to participate effectively on the world stage and to play a worthwhile part in assisting developing countries, particularly those in our region of the world, to stand on their own feet. Denis Warner has written that experience in both the private and the public fields of economic assistance has demonstrated that the aid which truly succeeds is that which helps people to help themselves and others. I remember that Lord Casey, when he was Minister for External Affairs, also held this view very strongly. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  pointed out in his speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) on 17 
September, our aid payments fall under 3 main headings. The first is Papua New Guinea, the second is multilateral aid and the third is bilateral aid. The figures before us show a decrease in the proposed aid payments to Papua New Guinea in 1974-75 because of the extra large financial assistance given to Papua New Guinea in 1973-74 to facilitate its transition to selfgovernment on 1 December 1973. Our bilateral aid payments, on the other hand, show a substantial proposed contribution of $40m by Australia towards the United Nations special program to assist developing countries seriously affected by the recent oil price increases and other international developments. The proposed expenditure on Colombo Plan projects and special aid to Indo-China goes up by an estimated $8.2m. It will be noted that the proposed increase in multilateral aid payments is accounted for mainly by large increases in Australia's payments to various United Nations and other international aid programs, plus estimated increases of $4.7m in payments to the International Development Association and $3m to the Asian Development Bank. 
I believe that in a debate on the estimates it behoves us to have a good look at the estimates themselves. I agree that it is necessary to have a debate on foreign policy, but I am endeavouring to focus my mind particularly on the proposed expenditures in the current financial year. Australia today is a member of numerous international organisations and this of course involves us in increasing outlays year by year. I cite, for instance, our membership of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the World Health Organisation and the International Asian Exposition at Okinawa in 1975. On the other hand there are some expected to be reduced outlays such as those in relation to the Intergovernmental Commission on European Migration and the United Nations Environment Fund. New construction programs for Australian chanceries in Bangkok, Singapore, Paris, Wellington and Washington will absorb additional funds. I am sure we all agree that it is right and proper that Australia should make adequate provision in every way for its overseas missions. Fuller details of Australia's external aid program for 1974-75, it may have been noticed, are set out in Budget Paper No. 9 presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on Budget night. 
In an address on 25 September to the Services Club in Melbourne the United States Ambassador,  Mr Marshall  Green, issued a warning on the subject of international aid. He said that he could not rule out the possibility of war if the rich and poor nations failed to co-operate in providing food and in limiting population.  Mr Green  went on to predict a doubling of the global population by the year AD2000. Population growth, he claimed, is closely linked to the dwindling food supply and constitutes a major threat to world stability. I believe Australia recognises this problem and is continuing to make its due contribution according to its resources. As  Mr Green  stressed in the speech I referred to, the developing nations also have a clear responsibility to cooperate in the interests of world stability and peace. This is not by any means a one way exercise. 
Motion ( by  Mr James  ) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
It is clear, as the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and other honourable members on this side of the chamber have said, that unfortunately defence has a relatively low priority under the present Government and that the proposed expenditure falls short of what in fact was promised before the Australian Labor Party came to power in terms of the gross national product. In its 1974 report the Department of Defence warned that Australia must maintain an adequate defence force because of the continuing possibility of what it described as low level situations developing. The Department said that this possibility applied in particular to Australian maritime resources. 
We need to get our priorities right. To us on this side of the chamber there are many disturbing factors in the present situation. Many of them have been covered already this afternoon. I am concerned, as are others, about the low morale of Navy, Army and Air Force personnel and the high rate of officer resignations. We have a large continent and a long coastline to maintain; yet our forces have been dwindling in number and have been becoming relatively immobile. Exercises have been strictly curtailed. I suggest that we need a highly moblie hard hitting and well integrated defence force which is capable of coping with any emergency. 
Our naval patrol boat force is expected to fall to the small number of 13 within the next month or so with the handing over to Papua New Guinea of 5 Attack class boats from the Navy's fleet. Two such boats have been given to Indonesia already and I understand that two more are to be handed over to that country soon. Let me say at once that I fully support the concept of regional co-operation, but I am gravely concerned that our patrol boat strength is falling so low. It is true that a tentative order has been placed for 2 United States built patrol frigates, but that order is liable to cancellation under certain circumstances: Firstly, if the United States Navy buys fewer than 12 of those ships; secondly, if there is a significant change in the cost; and, thirdly, if trials indicate that the first ship fails specific performance tests. 
I understand that delivery of those 2 patrol frigates is not expected to take place until 1981-7 years from now. That is a long time. A great deal can happen in that period. None of us can foresee what will happen. I must say frankly that I am not at all convinced by the strategic assessment that there is no foreseeable threat for 10 to 15 years. The honourable member for Barker recently has drawn attention to the fact that the Soviet navy continues to be active in the Indian Ocean and that recent reports from New Zealand suggest that the Soviet Union obviously has a strong intelligence interest in the Australasian region. 
A very senior Army officer, Brigadier Hooton who last year resigned as the head of Army intelligence in protest against cuts in defence expenditure, has pointed out that Japan, China and India, as well as the Soviet Union, have the nuclear capacity to threaten Australia. He has expressed the view that in the long term Australia's security is less assured now than at almost any other time since Federation. Brigadier Hooton has expressed concern that at the highest levels professional servicemen have been isolated from the Government and that advice on defence is now the province of public servants. He claims that this change has led to wrong advice being given and that Australia could develop policies based on a low threat estimate for a long period and insufficient recognition of the time needed to prepare forces in a national emergency. 
In March of this year an excellent report was produced by a committee of inquiry chaired by 

 Dr T. B. Millar on the subject of the Citizen Military Forces. We on this side of the chamber are looking forward very much to hearing from the Government just what is going to be done by way of implementation of what we consider to. be the many very desirable recommendations contained in that report. In conclusion I say that we are firmly of the belief that it is a paramount duty of the Government to ensure that Australia is provided with adequate defences at all times. Second best, or hoping for the best, is just not good enough where the safety and security of our country are concerned. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to representations made to the Treasurer on behalf of the parents of thalidomide children in Australia requesting exemption from income tax in respect of income from trust funds set up for children seriously affected by the use of this drug. I ask the Treasurer whether this matter is under active consideration and whether he is in a position to indicate when a decision may be reached? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197411133_27_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_29_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_29_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_30_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_31_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
Memo to: The Honourable P. R. Lynch, M.P.,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition 
From: George Pentland, Town Clerk, City of Frankston (Region 18- Victoria) 
Subject: Notes re. Grants Commission 
Preamble 
Having been deprived in the past of any direct access to taxation moneys, local government obviously must welcome the principle of direct assistance from Canberra through Grants Commission allocations. 
Level of Allocation 
Although Frankston 's pressing needs are far in excess of the allocation made ($235,000), Frankston Council is hardly in a position to be over critical of the allocation as it compares quite favourably with the treatment of many other Councils. 
Basis of Allocation 
The criteria used in distributing the grants between Municipalities is somewhat obscured, despite the provisions of Section 6 of the Grants Commission Act. 
It appears from the Grants Commission's First Report (page 34) that the rate of inter censal population growth was the dominating factor in making the allocations. 
This is not without some merit, particularly in Frankston 's case as our growth rate is high but there are many other factors that should not be overlooked. These include Frankston 's regional role as a shopping centre, the popularity of its foreshore for swimming and boating, the parking problems associated with railhead, the youthful population and the disadvantaged Pines Forest area. These factors contribute materially to Frankston Council's financial burden and they probably do not apply to the majority of other municipalities with a population growth rate similar to Frankston. 
The role of the Regional Organisation This is a mystery. 
In the first year the Regional Organisations were described from Canberra as merely being a post office for the forwarding of submissions of individual Councils to Canberra. Despite this unglamorous role, it was fairly important for a Municipality to be part of a region otherwise it didn't get a grant. The allocations bear this out 
The regional organisations of Councils were set up exclusively for the purposes of the Grants Commission Act, but it now appears that the Australian Government favours these organisations accepting at least some degree of responsibility in relation to other programmes in the field of Urban and Regional Development and social welfare (Australian Assistance Plan). 
The notion of the Regional Organisations of Councils becoming a sort of regional umbrella in respect to the planning and implementation of a wide range of government programmes has been extemporized by spokesmen of DURD while carefully placing on record that there was no intention of laying the foundation for a fourth level of government. 
Quite apart from these extraneous functions, it has been also hinted by DURD spokesmen that with the appointment of a new Chairman of the Grants Commission, the role of the Regional Organisation will in future, be much more meaningful than a mere 'post office' for sending on the submissions of individual Councils. 
The whole question of the present and future roles of these regional organisations to which Councils have been drafted, needs clarification and a firm policy statement by the Government is required. 
Use of Grants Commission Allocations 
According to the preliminary literature produced by DURD and the Prime Minister's telegram of August 23, the allocations from the Grants Commission are to be unconditional. 
On the other hand, the Minister  Mr Uren  has been reported in the National Press as warning Councils against misuse of grants. 
These contradicting statements have caused some dilemna at local level as to the projects or programmes to be financed from the allocation. 
Councils should know whether they have complete discretion to spend the allocations on what they regard as the most pressing local need(s), or whether they would be well advised to select projects that will make someone in Canberra happy and in the interests of next year's allocation. 
In discussions by Frankston Council in relation to the spending of the Grants Commission allocation, a number of worthy projects have been considered. Land purchase for recreation, erection of community buildings and several much needed welfare and youth programmes that would involve the appointment of staff. Worthy though these programmes are, Council is naturally reluctant to allocate Grants Commission funds to any project that will involve recurring expenditure when there is no indication whether there will be any grant next year, and if there is, how much. 
The idea of allocation commitments over a longer period of say 3 to 5 years with provision for adjustment to allow for inflation and materially changed local conditions is perhaps worthy of some thought. 
The saving at both local and Canberra level in the preparation of and processing of annual applications would be enormous, and if there was some guarantee of continuity, Councils would be much more inclined to take on larger projects on recurring programmes. 
Application Procedure 
Applications for assistance under the Grants Commission Act involve- 
Submission direct to Canberra of 'Returns of Accounting and Other Information'. 
Detailed submissions to be forwarded through the Regional Organisation. 
Attending Regional hearings and providing such further information as may be required by the Grants Commission. 
Regarding item (a)- the Return of Accounting and Other Information-this requires quite lengthy and painstaking extraction of figures from annual accounts. The returns are required to be forwarded to Canberra by November 1 1 and as the books of accounts are balanced to September 30, the timetable is fairly tight. Although the returns this year are somewhat more simple than last year, a number of items are still far from clear, and more precise information from the Grants Commission would be appreciated to facilitate the compilation of the return. 
As regards (b)-the Detailed Submissions-it is understood that some Councils are using Public Relations Consultants to produce eye-catching presentations. 
A great deal of time is involved in preparing the Submission and it seems a pity if this requirement is to develop into a costly competition between municipalities with prizes being awarded for the best presentation, rather than the greatest need. Whilst not wishing to restrict local initiative more information as to what is really needed in the detailed submissions would be most helpful. 
As regards (c)- the Regional Hearings- no problem exists here provided that sufficient notice is given to Councils of any further information required by the Commission. 
As mentioned under chapter 5, the saving of time in the application and processing procedures would be enormous if allocation commitments were made for a period of three to five years instead of one year. 
Gearing up at Local Level 
The adage that suggests that you should not put new wine in old skins, applies to some extent to local government's present situation in being called upon for the first time to administer new and much larger programmes at the instigation of the Australian Government. 
Having been tightly controlled for so long in respect to spending the meagre handouts from State Governments, the notion of untied grants and exciting new programmes involves quite some readjustment of thought and outlook at Council table level. In many cases considerable gearing up will obviously be required before new programs can be satisfactorily undertaken. 
I suggest that local government should not be judged too harshly on its early performances in this field, and that the Australian Government should give it more guidance and a reasonable time to respond to the taste of the new responsibility. 
Recapitulation 
The idea of a partnership between Canberra and local government to provide financial assistance under the Grants Commission Act is basically sound. 
The role of the regional organisations, particularly the possible future role is not clear, and accordingly is to some extent suspect. Immediate action should be taken to clarify this position. 
The effectiveness of regions in this context is a matter for conjecture. Municipalities are by their constitution and role, parochial in their outlook. Councils of adjoining municipalities engage in friendly competition and constantly vie with one another in a genuine attempt to improve local conditions. Some facets of municipal endeavour can certainly be conveniently administered on a regional basis, e.g., library services, outfall drainage (D.V.A.) and town planning. However, in the main, Councils prefer to 'go it alone' and in this respect the compulsory setting up of regions is rather idealistic. The Australian Government should acknowledge this fact and adjust to it. 
The question of whether or not allocations are completely unconditional should be clarified. 
The criteria for deciding the level of grants should be clearly stated and re-examined. 
The idea of grant commitments covering several years rather than one only ought to be investigated. 
Application procedures should be simplified and firmer guidelines provided to local government. 
Local government should be given a reasonable time to 'gear up' and adjust to the new relationship and added responsibility. 
C. Pentland Town Clerk 
Civic Centre, Frankston. November 11, 1974. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-There is an established procedure in relation to this matter. Is leave granted for the document to be incorporated in Hansard? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197412030_62_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Is the honourable member seeking leave to have the document incorporated in Hansard? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether there has been any change in the Government's program for the progressive abolition of the means test. If there has been, will the Minister be good enough to outline the current program? 
I am thinking of the area between Capital Hill and Camp Hill. I feel that it is most desirable that steps should be taken if necessary to ensure that no building be erected in any way on that zone; in other words, that the whole area between Capital Hill and Camp Hill and Parkes Place be pan of the protected parliamentary zone under the control of Parliament itself. 
-Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration assure the House that adequate steps are being taken to ensure that international criminals are not allowed to enter Australia and that appropriate action is being taken with regard to any overseas criminals who came here while the experimental easy visa system was in operation? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="093131197502125_36_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502125_37_1.jpg"></graphic>

As every member of this House would know, the existing provisions relating to electoral expenditure are farcical and, in some respects, have come to be treated with contempt. How ridiculous is the situation when a serious contender for a House of Representatives seat is allowed only $500 to cover advertising, broadcasting and television, publishing and issuing posters and 'how-to-vote' cards, telephones and telegrams, committee rooms, places for public meetings and scrutineers. In the case of a senator the limit is $ 1 ,000. Yet this is the import of the law as it stands. The previous government was aware of this ridiculous situation and its attitude was revealed in a Bill introduced in 1971 by the then Minister for the Interior which, in effect, proposed that limitations on electoral expenditure be abandoned. The Government does not support this 'open gate ' approach. Rather, it considers that the time is long overdue to restructure the expenditure provisions into sensible, more realistic and workable legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Calder)  adjourned. 
-Order! The Treasurer's time has expired. 
-Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Pensioners are likely to be the first to suffer under the Federal Government's proposed cut-backs in spending. 
It could be a cold autumn for pensioners expecting an endofsummer increase of up to $4 a week and the abolition of the means test for everyone over 70. 
Instead, under the Government economy campaign, pensioners could receive an increase of only $ 1 .50. 
The article also states: 

 Mr Hayden proposed an increase of $4 a week, but later seemed to back down on this when he released a statement saying that the Whitlam Government had already increased pensions to higher levels than any other government. 
The author of the article,  Mr Monks,  also says: 
The pension increase cut-back and the delay in ending the means test for the over-70s could save the Government at least $50m this year. 
It is a totally dishonest article. It is irresponsibly presented. It will create a great deal of unease, if not alarm, amongst pensioners in the community who have a reasonable expectation of a substantial increase in pension rates in this session of Parliament. In no way can  Mr Monks  's irresponsibility be justified.  Mr Monks,  as a member of the Press Gallery of this Parliament, would know that this morning the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I confirmed that there would be a substantial increase in pensions and that pensions would not be suffering from any cut-back which might arise if any policy of public expenditure restraint were to be applied. For instance, if I may quote the words exactly, I said this morning: 
There will be further substantial increases in pensions in the course of this parliamentary session and these increases will lift those relationships again. 
The words 'those relationships' refer to the relationships between pensions and average weekly earnings and the consumer price index, to which I have been referring. The Prime Minister said:  . . there is provision in the Budget for an increase this April in social service payments. There will be no cut or curtailment there. It has never been suggested. 
I will not quote all of the other comments that the Prime Minister made this morning and I will not refer any further to the comments I made. However, I will say that  Mr Monks  has come to the Parliament with a reputation as a beat-up journalist. I am not sure what a beat-up journalist is; but, if it is a person who is prepared to write any sort of scandal or sensation or completely dishonest exaggeration at all, then I can understand at last what a beat-up journalist is. Nothing that  Mr Monks  has written in the article to which I have referred has been considered by the Government. None of the money amounts which he has quoted has at any time been suggested or considered by me or any other member of the Government or considered by the Government itself. It is, I repeat, a totally disreputable article. It brings the profession of journalism into disrepute. It is going to create a great deal of alarm and insecurity amongst pensioners. I hasten to assure them that that is not justified. I would hope for a higher standard of probity and conduct from members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery. If they do not know what is going on in Cabinet- I am pleased to discover that they do not- that is no justification for any one of them beating up a succession of what can only be described as lies in an effort to get a sensational article. 
-I am sorry if I am in error here. I did hear a call for a division but I did not think that more than one honourable member called. As the honourable member for Berowra said, it could well be that in fact my attention was diverted at that particular moment. 
-Order! I would suggest that the discussion across the table should cease. 
When we look at what he proposes we find, as I have indicated, that the ballots will be conducted under union rules or by the Registrar but still under union rules. The roll of membershipthe indication of who is or is not a financial memberis undefined, leading to the possibility of a stacking of the membership to achieve a certain purpose. There is no provision for adequate notice of ballots, no right of those opposing a particular proposition to put their views on ballot papers or in journals. Technically under the legislation proposed by the Minister seven voting out of a membership of 10 000 could achieve an amalgamation. What democracy is there in that? If the Minister really believes that that is an appropriate way in winch to behave or that this is appropriate legislation to pass, I find it difficult to understand why. 
It would have been much better if he had accepted the urging of some of his colleagues and supporters in the trade union movement and tried to introduce different provisions from those contained in this legislation. Other areas which would have made it possible for objections to be made in relation to changes in the rules are now to be restricted to changes in the rules that affect eligibility for membership of an amalgamated union. There are in fact to be many other changes to the rules that can affect individual members and the rights of individual members of a union. The objections should not be restricted just to objections that affect the eligibility conditions of trade unions. The other provision which indicates that there will be no vote in relation to union matters or no vote in relation to union officials for 3 years after an amalgamation would seem to be an especially unreasonable one simply because there will be no protection for rank and file members of a trade union along the road to amalgamation. 
All those matters would have been serious enough, but we ought to note that the organisation which seeks to take over some other organisation, which submits its scheme of amalgamation to a particular committee of management of a second and maybe much smaller and weaker organisation has the capacity to appeal over the heads of the committee of management of the smaller organisation to its own members. If one-fifth of those members, who may not even be financial members, then require a ballot that could occur, but again it would not have to be a secret ballot in accordance with the provisions of the amendment that the Minister is in fact introducing. That does open up opportunities for the larger and more powerful unions to subject the smaller organisations, the smaller trade unions, to takeover tactics which would be just as vigorous and just as ruthless as any takeover tactics that might have occurred in the commercial field between a large company against a smaller company. Again it is an indication of a lack of regard for the rights of individual members of a particular organisation. I have already indicated that I believe that the Minister has been under pressure to change the terms of this legislation. He has not done so because he wanted it to be one of a technical list that could be counted if there were a double dissolution later this year. 
Some of the arguments in favour of the Minister's purpose are plainly deficient. One of the arguments that he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  have been using over a significant period of time is that since so much of our industrial disputation is concerned with demarcation areas we have to have an amalgamation of trade unions to end the demarcation disputes. The Australian Bureau of Statistics lists the causes of industrial disputes under wage claims, wage matters, hours of work, leave, pensions, compensation provisions, managerial policy, physical working conditions, trade unionism, which includes disputes concerning the employment of non-unionists, inter-union and intra-union disputesin other words, demarcation disputessympathy stoppages in support of employees in another industry and the recognition of union activities. It is under trade unionism that we find that demarcation disputes are listed, along with other things. 
The figures for the September quarter of last year, which I think are the latest comprehensive figures available, indicate that 87 per cent of the working days lost were lost over wages issues and that 3.5 per cent of the working days lost were lost over trade unionism issues of which demarcation disputes are but one of several parts. So, unless the Bureau of Statistics is very wrong in the way in which it compiles the figures, it would appear to be plain that demarcation disputes represent only a very minor part of the total claims and the total strikes and disputes that occur in the industrial area. 
Government as a whole have taken in relation to the trade union movement and in relation to the economy. They have established the circumstances in which this kind of industrial climate prevails. 
-Order! I ask the Minister to be good enough to let the member for Wannon make his speech. 
Amalgamation will not stop demarcation disputes. Take the Storeman and Packers Union as an example. This union is through industry generally. If they did amalgamate with unions such as the Federal Transport Workers or Waterside Workers, they could then use their industrial strength to force their will upon other unions in all sections of industry, and this would lead to more demarcation disputes. The unions who would be vulnerable if this happened would be all unions in the metal industries who currently have as members tool storemen, etc. This would also apply to the aircraft industry, the vehicle industry, the retail trade, the clothing trade and the rubber industry to name a few. 
That is the view of one prominent trade union official of whom Australia, I believe, will hear a great deal more during the next few years. 
The Minister's views on these subjects have been taken too much in isolation. He is too much cut off from what is happening in the main stream of industrial relations. The Minister ought to know- obviously he does know but he chooses to ignore it- that 70 per cent of trade union memberships is already to be found in 33 unions. When amalgamations have occurred, they have in fact been between large unions, not between the smaller unions, many of which want to maintain their own identity, even if the Minister thinks that is wrong and even recognising, as I and he would, that being too small means that it is very difficult to supply the secretarial services and the research staff that are necessary for the best service. But if unions can be too small, they can also be too large to provide the best service to their members. Branches and divisions of a union become cut off from the centralised control and do not know enough of what is happening at State or Federal level. I have visited establishments where this has certainly been the case. Shop stewards and delegates have plainly made that kind of complaint against their own officials. 
If the Minister wishes to suggest that there is an analogy between companies and unions and that there ought to be an equivalent circumstance, I think he would do well to examine his own argument. Legislation in relation to companies, and also other significant power groups in the community- organisations of employers or employees- ought to be there to advance the general public interest and to ensure that the standards of all Australians can in fact be raised. That is why we have restrictive trade practices legislation, which in varying degrees is supported by all members of this House. That is why there is a Companies Act with very stringent provisions to determine how companies can and cannot act. Company registrars act with great speed and great thoroughness if a company steps outside the provisions of the Acts which are strictly and actively applied. In the area concerning organisations of employees or of employers, these organisations which are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are not really subject to rules that vary consequences in anything like the same way. The Industrial Registrar is passive and plays a passive role rather than an active role. I suggest that a majority of unions at the present time, as a result of changes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that the Minister has already introduced, do not have rules that are up to date with the present provisions. A number of them do not have the circumstances or the facilities to interpret some of the complex law which the Minister has already introduced. 
When I say that organisations of employees or of employers are in many ways not subject to rules that carry consequences, let me refer briefly to the activities of the Builders Labourers Federation about 4 months ago. Following a telegram from  Mr Norm  Gallagher to  Mr Jorgensen  of the Master Builders Association, six of the major building companies in Australia were frightened out of the High Court because of threatened and actual guerrilla tactics and bans being placed upon those companies. As a result of that activity the Attorney-General of the day was given adequate opportunity to refer that apparent blatant contempt of court to the High Court so that the High Court could take official cognisance of it and act upon it. The Attorney-General of the day, who it might be worth noting is now the Chief Justice- not the Chief Justice, but a justice of the High Court; I hope that the other step never eventuates- just washed his hands of the matter. He was a more perfect Pontius Pilate than Pontius Pilate himself. He said that this was no matter for him. The chief law officer of the Commonwealth was saying that adherence to and maintenance of the law had nothing to do with him. If it had involved a company which had attempted the same kind of action, if it had involved a company which was threatening black bans and guerrilla tactics against its competitors, the Attorney-General of that time would have acted with all the speed and thoroughness of which he believed himself to be capable. That shows that this Government adopts a partisan and one-sided approach to a number of these questions. 
It also ought to be noted that in many areas the trade union movement is now more powerful than even the most powerful companies in Australia. Under plans already made, one union will have an income of $ 10m to $1 lm by 1976. About one-half of that income is necessary to carry on the union's research secretariat and other union activities, and the rest is free floating money for other activities. That shows, I think, the significance of union power in a number of instances, if it is, in fact, misused as it is in a number of significant circumstances. 
I know that the great majority of members of the trade union movement do not behave in that way. They want to pursue their industrial purposes and advance the cause of their members as well as they know how- vigorously and firmly, but with an understanding of Australia's overall national interest and with the interests and well being of the community very much in mind. Rules that carry consequences are necessary in those areas where people do not hold that general view. The Minister would well know, and the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and of the Australian Council of Trade Unions would well know, that there is a significant minority of members of the trade union movement who do not hold that view. If the Government showed some signs of applying rules equally it would be in a much better and a more creditable situation than it is at the present time. It would have a greater claim to credibility. 
I think it is worth noting that this Minister switches his arguments very much like a yo-yo on a string. In one Bill he is all for the rank and file, and in the next BDI- this Bill- he is for the large and the powerful.  His  Government took special action to help 3 large multinational companies in a difficult employment situation but took no action whatsoever to help some hundreds of smaller Australian companies. It did not assist them because they were not laying off 5000 people at one blow; they would by laying off only their tens, twenties, or possibly hundreds. That special action had to be taken by this Government, of which the Minister for Labor and Immigration presumably is a supporter, to support 3 large multinational companies, but the Government did nothing for those Australian companies which were in equally difficult circumstances and which were placed in those circumstances as a result of the actions of this Government and this Minister. 
-Yes, that is so. 
Indonesia and Portugal in bringing up this matter for debate. We are acting responsibly on behalf of the Australian people and looking towards not tomorrow's headlines but the peace and the stability of Indonesia, of the Indonesian Archipelago and the peace and stability of that part ofthe world in which we live. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="093131197502254_24_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502254_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="093131197503050_28_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

Naturally enough one should then look at what sectors are being penalised. As I have pointed out, the appropriation for the Department of Labor and Immigration is $ 142 m which virtually will be used for unemployment purposes. This money basically is to go to former employees of secondary industry. But there are many other sections of the community that completely miss out. I refer in particular to the food producing areas. There is no appropriation at all for assistance under the Department of Agriculture in the Bill. The figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that the returns to the potato industry, for example, have dropped by 2 1 per cent. Onions are in the same position. Meat has shown a drop of 6.5 per cent and beef of 8.7 per cent. 
This does not give a true reflection of the overall situation that has existed because a report of the Department of Agriculture on meat prices put out on 1 3 February 1 974 for the sales held on 6 February 1975, as compared with sales almost exactly 12 months before, shows that the price of bullocks has dropped from 84c to 26c a kilogram; vealers from 90c to 30c a kilogram, lamb from 97c to 48c a kilogram; and mutton from 44c to 10c a kilogram. This gives a clear indication of the difficulty which is facing this industry. These are the matters about which I am concerned. Prices in the United States of 
America have dropped by about 50 per cent. Prices in the European Economic Community countries and the United Kingdom have remained fairly steady. But there has been no assistance whatever for this type of industry in Australia. I appeal to the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to have a look at this matter. 
I claim that there are three different groups of people under the present system. The first group is made up of people who have been officially affected by the Government's decisions. I refer basically to people who were employed in the textile industry and who are entitled to receive what I classify as redundancy payments or income maintenance on the basis of their earnings over the previous 6 months. The second group is made up of people who happen to be thrown out of work for some reason that is not directly associated with the Government's decisions. We all know that unemployment today has been caused by Government decisions and that some people have been affected more directly than others. However, the people who are not as directly affected do not qualify for redundancy payments and their unemployment relief drops back to $3 1 a week. So far so good. 
I now move to the third group. I classify it as the self-employed group which is made up of small businessmen and farmers. What do the people in this group get if anything happens to their industry? If one looks at the Appropriation Bill one can see that they get absolutely nothing. People in this group who are unemployed have to qualify under some form of means test before they can get anywhere. I urge the Government to have a very close look at this situation because things have changed so dramatically in recent times, particularly in the meat and beef industries. People in these industries are now finding themselves in a very serious crisis. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  is wrong when he says that he has tried to do everything that the cattlemen's association has asked for. 
I put these matters before you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  so that the Government can give consideration to them. I hope that it does so, because they are urgent matters. I have to restrict my remarks because of the limited amount of time available to me. There are a couple of other matters that I think require some urgent attention as well. One of them relates to social security. But this side of the House is prepared to support the appropriations, fully realising, of course, the importance of some of the matters that have been raised in this chamber- namely, the Darwin disaster, the Tasman Bridge disaster and the need for funds to continue to be made available for unemployment relief. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Bearing in mind the desire to have the Indian Ocean as an area of peace and the Government's reported disapproval of the move by the United States of America to strengthen defences at Diego Garcia, I ask the Minister whether any official protest has been made with regard to the growing strength of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean. 
-Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Melbourne that he should direct his remarks to the Chair. 
-Clause 21, which is before the Committee at the moment, is a very long and complicated clause. I support in general terms the arguments that have been put forward from this side of the chamber. What I would like to say something about in particular in the few minutes that I have at my disposal before the suspension of the sitting is the method of handing out how-to-vote cards. I saw a British documentary film a number of years ago which explained and depicted clearly the effectiveness of the system used in that country. In brief- it is probably known to most members of this chamber- it involves the placing of a howtovote card for each party and each candidate in each cubicle of a polling booth. I see several advantages in that as opposed to the current system of having each party's representatives handing out how-to-vote cards en masse outside polling booths all day on polling day. Briefly the arguments that have been put against the proposal to have these how-to-vote cards put in the cubicles is that in Britain the vote is not compulsory whereas in Australia it is compulsory. That to me is not a valid argument. The argument that I have heard mostly- perhaps it is a valid one because all the party organisations seem to be in agreement on it- is that the present system is good for the morale of each party. They argue that it is more effective from a party's point of view and its candidate's point of view to have personnel belonging to that party standing outside the polling booth handing out the party's own how-to-vote cards depicting precisely how that party wishes the people supporting it to vote for its candidates. The arguments against the current system I think are mainly on the grounds of economy. It costs each of the political parties a tremendous amount of money- an awful waste of expenditure- printing large numbers of howtovote cards. Every one of us who has been closely associated with elections over the years knows very well that there is always a tremendous lot of how-to-vote cards left over at the end of the day and these are simply thrown away. 
The adoption of the system which I am recommendingI believe I was the first member of this chamber to put this recommendation forward some years ago- would not only have the advantage of saving money but would also avoid a lot of clutter of personnel and paper outside polling booths. Electors should be entitled to enter the polling booths without let or hindrance. Many times I have seen people held up because of being crowded around by supporters of all parties trying to thrust how-to-vote cards into their hands as they enter the booths. Finally I see great advantage from the point of view of party members and supporters themselves who stand for hour after hour on polling days handing out how-to-vote cards, many times in the hot sun and sometimes in the rain. It is always a very tiring exercise. 
I want to express my concern regarding the future of Australia's trade routes, particularly our trade routes to Great Britain and Europe. To do this I must first refer briefly to certain aspects of the Middle East situation. A few weeks ago a South Carolina Republican,  Senator Jesse  Helms, told the United States Senate that he agreed with the Administration decision that it was time for a reassessment of Middle East policy. A United States labour leader, George Meany) went further and urged a review of the entire policy of detente following the collapse of Middle East peace negotiations and communist gains in Portugal and in South-East Asia. Very shortly after those 2 statements were made, King Faisal of Saudi Arabia was assassinated. This tragedy heightened anxiety with regard to the Middle East, where at the best of times there is a high degree of uncertainty and tension. King Faisal's main objective strategically was to preserve Western influence in the Middle East and to exclude Soviet influence. 
The great strategic importance of the Middle East to Australia and to many other countries cannot be overstated. Oil supplies, of course, are of great significance, but I am thinking particularly of our traditional trade route across the Indian Ocean, through the Red Sea and the Suez Canal to the Mediterranean and thence to Great Britain and Europe, a trade route that unfortunately has been denied to us and to others for the past 8 years. The Soviet fleets in the Indian Ocean and in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea could well be in a position to hinder if they so desired the free use of the Suez Canal route when it is re-opened next June. Since the closure of the Suez Canal in 1967 our main trade route to Britain and Europe has been via the Cape of Good Hope. As I see it, this route is also threatened by an uncertain and deteriorating situation in the southern part of the African continent. I am convinced that the international pressures on that area are based primarily on strategic concepts and only secondarily on racial issues. I say that because racial issues also exist in quite a number of other countries that are not subjected to similar pressures. 
To illustrate my point, I refer to the strategic railway built in recent years, with the help of Peking, from Dar-es-Salaam on the eastern coast of Africa right down into the southern part of Zambia. For what reason other than strategic reasons would China have played a major part in the construction of this railway in the southern part of the African continent? If Australia were to be deprived of its vital trade route to Britain and Europe via the Cape of Good Hope, as well as the more direct route via the Suez Canal, then I put it that certainly we would be in a difficult and even dangerous situation. For very many years a significant proportion or our imports and exports have flowed along one or other of these 2 trade routes, and most of our migrants also have come to us across the Indian Ocean. 
Finally, with regard to the matter of detente to which I referred earlier, surely Australia and the rest of the free world should take careful note of a speech reported to have been made by the Premier of the People 's Republic of China, Chou En-lai, at the Fourth National People's Congress in Peking last January. I have in my hand a photostat copy of News Bulletin No. 7503 dated 26 January 1975 issued by the People's Republic of China. Time will permit me to quote only briefly from this bulletin. The reported text reads in part: ____ there is no detente, let alone lasting peace, in this world. 
At present, the factors for both revolution and war are increasing. 
I think we would all agree that these are very disturbing words, to say the least, and if in fact there is no detente in the eyes of the leaders of the People's Republic of China then surely it is high time that the free world made a re-assessment of the situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the Bill before the House. 
We of the Opposition agree with the proposition that trade union leadership in this country is in urgent need of a course in not only education but also responsibility. Too often we have heard the heartless platitudes of Hawke, Carmichael, Halfpenny and others who quite apparently have grown up in an environment where those who supply the capital, take the risks, and create employment and security are to be opposed for the sake of opposing and to be pursued relentlessly with a devilish attitude of squeezing the last drops of juice out of private enterprise. Quite obviously these purveyors of hostile attitudes are in need of education, and that is why we support the Bill; but it is a false premise to advance the argument that supplying millions of dollars for a purpose will correct its basic fundamental ideas of disruption and trouble. You cannot legislate for attitudes. The leaders of the trade union movement in some instances need a realignment of their policies and a cementing of their attitudes based on a sound knowledge and appreciation of their responsibilities to society. Trade union leaders who condone and encourage wildcat strikes have to be made to realise that they should have a conscience. 
We support the need for trade union training as outlined by the Minister on account of the bottomless pit into which leadership of the trade union movement has degenerated. Even though the Minister has been accused of falsifying unemployment figures- I do not infer that, because I do not think he would; I merely state that he has been accused of it- he can neither deny nor distort the records of industrial disputes for the year 1 974. 1 am making the point that on account of the huge increase in unemployment it is absolutely essential that we educate the trade union leaders in the need to exercise responsibility. I am developing that point for your information,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  These statistics are imprinted indelibly on the records of the Australian Bureau of Statistics- reference No. 6.27. They cannot be erased, and they paint a very dull picture. 
I will give the figures for the information of Hansard. For the year 1974, industrial dispute statistics were the highest recorded since official statistics began in 1913. Here we have a government which has its basis in the trade union movement being unable to exercise authority over its own environment. Obviously it has no political muscle whatsoever when asked to give leadership. It is a worrying state of affairs that there is a lack of appreciation within the Government of the effects industrial unrest has on employment, inflation and loss of productivity. The suggested legislation is not a neat conclusion but rather a certain admission of despair and defeat. I submit that there is no great finding in legislation which in effect says that football is likely to be played on a football field or oval. 
Let me give the vital statistics for 1974. There were 2,809 disputes. The previous high was in 1970, when there were 2,738 disputes. In 1974, 2 million workers were involved. In 1970 the number was 1.4 million. A total of 6.3 million working days were lost. The previous high of 4.7 million was recorded in 1970. A total of $128m was lost in wages.  Major disputes  in 1974 included 2.4 million days lost by metal workers making claims for increased wages, etc., 470 000 days lost by building workers claiming a national award, 350 000 days lost by transport workers in support of claims for increased wages, and 325 000 days lost by meat workers claiming increased wages. The average number of days lost per worker in 1974 was 3.1. The loss in wages of $ 128m in 1974 was 4 times greater than the loss of $32m in 1972, the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government. These are shattering figures which are cause for the deepest concern and obviously indicate that the trade union movement is in drastic need of education. 
Quite obviously, the present trade union training has not been good enough. The Opposition compliments the Minister for his initiative in this regard. I applaud the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  who, with some practical experience, was able to indicate to the House the channels through which trade union officials usually emerge to positions of responsibility within their unions. He said that no great emphasis has been given to fitting a union official for the job of responsibility and leadership in that union. The Opposition submits that, in a period when industrial relations are becoming increasingly complex, it is of vital importance that the large numbers involved on both sides of industry should be given the opportunity to study the problems and acquire the necessary techniques. 
The study of industrial relations by management is equally important. There was a thread running through the Minister's second reading speech which seemed to indicate that this side of the problem was of no great moment. He said: 
Thus the conduct of courses cannot be a joint responsibility of unions and leaders. 
I would have thought that the rubbing together of shoulders would be excellent and should be encouraged. One has to create a climate of mutual respect for each other's point of view. Training alone will not suffice in the modern era. 
I firmly believe that, in the interests of overcoming the great problems that are created in commerce and industry, trade unionists should have access to directorships of companies and that they should be positively encouraged to seek these positions. Additionally, workers should have as a deliberate instrument of their policy objectives the aim to be shareholders, in their own right and with their own money, in the various companies in which they work. In this way they will have a sense of belonging, and that is the best form of education. 
Some disappointment has to be expressed at the idea that had been planted that State councils will have autonomy in setting their syllabuses and selecting students. This could lead to chaos. If we are to encourage an ideal of uniformity in approach and desire, it would appear to be a plausible argument to advance that there should be sound ground rules for admission to the colleges. Obviously, normal matriculation requirements cannot apply but there should be consistency as to rules of thumb which would indicate whether a person can cope, whether there are to be concurrent courses or now long these courses are to run. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  touched on the changing emphasis in courses as time elapses. It is to be hoped that there will be a variety of courses available, and it is the responsibility of the Parliament to ensure that the best possible use is made of the money funded through the Parliament from the general reservoir of taxpayers' money. Research into industrial relations should go hand in hand with the teaching of the subject. 
There can be no argument that some strikes could have been solved without need to resort to the extreme step of strike action if those involved had displayed more tolerance and a greater faith in the process of conciliation. That is what research is all about- finding out the areas that are causing or will cause friction and, these having been established, making positive moves to cushion the effects. One has only to analyse the history of recent stoppages and one comes to the conclusion that it is not always demarcation disputes, conditions or hardships which lead to unrest. One can debate that Australia's rapid inflation rate was one of the main reasons for the fabric of industrial peace being torn to pieces last year. Trade unions obviously need re-equipping, on account of the disastrous and soul destroying tactics they adopt at the present time, to meet the challenge of the coming decades. Education is the tool to achieve this. The coming decades will require the trade unions to grapple with the problems of rapid socio-economic changes. 
Technoligical change, accelerated economic growth, new concepts of urbanisation and the use of leisure time, worker participation in management, recurrent education and paid study leave, and a work force which contains 40 per cent to 50 per cent women- the majority being married- will all form part of the trade union official's world in addition to his present responsibilities. This area of education obviously must be a participator in the general education programs and the Opposition submits that it should not be treated in isolation. 
I want to use this occasion also to pass some general comments on a few points raised in the Minister's speech. I refer to his generalised statement that it is crucial to better labour relations that those who do business on behalf of organised labour know and are able to articulate the views of those whom they represent. This Bill may overcome the first part of the difficulty. But what have we achieved if those who become articulate become so artful and deceitful that they do not express rightly the views of those whom they represent? This is a matter that concerns me greatly. How do we establish what is the will of the group? What safeguards do we have? Does the Minister want to develop great orators who will meddle with the truth and convey the wrong message, or does he want to develop fair dinkum trade union leaders who are alive to their responsibilities, to themselves, to their union and to society as a whole? The Minister is an ex-shearer. Unlike some of the other dandies who are trying to interrupt, he would know what I mean when I say that he is pulling the wool over his eyes. I ask, in a spirit of offering something concrete: What have we achieved if we have not based our sense of achievement on decency and honesty? 
If there were such a thing as a secret court controlled ballot of all members before a strike took place there would be some ray of hope in what is obviously a barren situation. The Minister has also commented that union fees are too low. I hate to say this because the Minister is a rather amiable sort of fellow, but I believe that he has grown away from the people he represents. He is out of touch. On many occasions I hear utterances that union fees are far too high for the services rendered. Yet the Minister says that they are too low. People object even to having to be members of a union in certain circumstances. They become emotionally and physically upset when they realise that part of their subscription goes, against their will, to bolster up the sagging funds of the Australia Labor Party. They object to having to give funds to a party which has let them down by destroying the will of private enterprise to create and maintain jobs. 
We hear suggestions that governments can help in decentralisation. I ask the Minister to let us know whether it is intended to establish the National College of Trade Union Training in a centre other than Canberra and, similarly, whether the State bodies are to be in areas other than the State capitals. I leave this thought with him: We do not want the cities to get bigger and worse, but the country areas would be most receptive to any new enterprise in their vicinity. One is somewhat dismayed that there has been a lack of co-operation and consultation with the employers in this whole matter of trade union education. Previous speakers from this side of the House placed great emphasis on the fact that, in the final analysis, there has to be a three-way partnership- between labour, management and the general public 
Too many strikes and disputes are caused by a breakdown in communication between workers and their bosses, between workers and their union, and between unions and the bosses. We neither want, nor can we tolerate, a state of affairs which causes maximum inconvenience without actually bringing a State to a standstill. Workers cannot be allowed to be pushed and shunted from pillar to post while seeking decisions on their various demands. Solutions can be found only by restraint and co-operation, not by the vicious bludgeon and hammer of selfinterest and disregard for the common good. I sincerely hope that this Bill- the brainchild of the Minister for Labor and Immigration- when it is finally implemented can help by educating all members of society in restraint and co-operation. If that is done, this type of legislation will be a hallmark in developing in Australia a sense of decency, honesty and integrity in relations between employers and employees. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has at last expired. I call the honourable member for Burke. 
-As a member of the Federal Parliamentary Christian Fellowship I should like to pay my tribute to a very great Christian martyr who died in Vienna on 7 May at the age of 83 years. I refer, of course, to the late Cardinal Jozsef Mindszenty, whose address in this building a few months ago to members of the Christian Fellowship will be fresh in the minds of all who heard him. A priest of the most profound conviction and of extraordinary moral and physical courage, he was gaoled for a total of 23 years and was tortured most cruelly and barbarously in turn first by German Nazis and later by Russian Communists. He was a doughty and uncompromising fighter for the faith that he held and for what he believed to be right, and he will undoubtedly rank in history with the great martyrs of aU time. 

 His 'crime', so-called, was that he resisted Nazis and Communist oppression and tyranny and was prepared to pay if necessary for that resistance with his life. He was not only a man of tremendous moral and spiritual strength but also a man of outstanding ability. This is reflected in the fact that he rose from parish priest to bishop and then to Primate of Hungary all in the space of a few years. He was, from all accounts, much loved and revered by all who knew him as priest, bishop and primate in his native land. Despite his long, drawn out suffering and agony, following trumped up charges of conspiracy against the State, this great Christian was able to say when he was finally forced to leave his own country: 
I do not hate anyone. I have no enemies and want only to live in peace with the world. I do not hate the Russians. We want only to get rid of communism because it is wrong and denies God. 
-I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction: Is it true that the Defence Service Homes Division is running at a loss of approximately $2m this financial year? Is it also true that the defence service homes insurance premium rates have been increased 3 times in the last 12 months? 

 Mr LES JOHNSON It is not appropriate for me to answer the latter part of the honourable member's question since that matter is the responsibility of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. In answer to the first question raised by the honourable member, it is true that the Defence Service Homes Division has exhausted its appropriation. As a result of the delay of the Senate in passing Appropriation Bill (No. 6), which provides for an additional appropriation of $ 15m for defence service homes, it is necessary to defer settlement of existing property purchases and the discharge of mortgage applications until the extra funds become available. I might add that there is nothing unusual about that. The fact of the matter is that in 10 of the years since 1952 there were considerable delays in making funds available for the purchase of new homes. In eighteen of the years since 1952 - during the period our predecessors were in office- there were delays in making funds available for the purchase of old homes. The delays have been considerable. In fact, they have extended as long as 20 months in respect of some of the years involved. 
In summary, the present position as a result of the Senate's delay in passing the Appropriation Bill is, firstly, that the purchases of existing properties and discharge of mortgage applications which would normally have been settled if the Appropriation Bill had been passed during April have been deferred until the additional funds of $ 15m become available; secondly, that all purchases of existing properties and discharge of mortgage cases which would normally be settled in June, and some May cases, have been deferred for settlement until after 30 June 1975; thirdly, that new applicants are being advised that settlement of their applications cannot be effected before July. Of course, in those cases where the vendor is not prepared to agree to a deferment until the defence service homes loan becomes available, the applicant is being authorised to complete the purchase with temporary finance. I regret the inconvenience and, indeed, the hardship that has been caused. I acknowledge the representations which have been expressed on the part of many honourable members. The honourable member for Fraser has brought many cases to my attention. I only hope that the passing of the legislation will minimise this inconvenience and hardship. 
-Time and again we hear criticism of the poor average quality of Australian television programs. No doubt this is a generalisation and, not being a television fan myself, I cannot be very specific. I do not watch television regularly except for news sessions and current affairs programs, but such other programs as I do see from time to time have, I believe, fallen off in quality in recent years. For example, I do not consider the one or two recent productions of 'Homicide' that I have happened to see to be nearly as good as were those of earlier years. By all means let us have substantial Australian content in our television programs but surely there are resources and talent enough in this country to enable the production of more worthwhile Australian programs. A number of people in my electorate have told me they consider there are too many programs on television depicting violence, and this is supported by comments by police and the courts. It has been established that the ideas for many crimes of violence committed in this country are derived from watching television programs. Surely there must be some alternative approach or approaches for improving the content of our programs and, so, the tone of our society. 
For years we have been reading of the brain and talent drain from Australia. Men and women of outstanding ability and talent in various fields who have not been adequately recognised in their own country have reached their zenith and obtained full reward only when they have gone to Britain, Europe or America. I believe that this is unfortunate for Australia, not least because it tends to discourage younger people of outstanding talent from remaining here. Our failure to give due recognition to outstandingly talented Australians could be to some extent offset and remedied by improving the quality of our television programs and producing films based on the lives and achievements of Australian-born citizens of note, both past and present. Surely this would be a more constructive approach than simply commemorating their names on postage stamps. True, there has been a very occasional production of the kind I have in mind but, as I have gathered from talking to my constituents in Queensland, much more could and should be done in this field. The lives of notable Australians representing a wide range of talents and achievements would provide excellent material for better and more informative Australian programs. 
I was glancing through a book the other day called 'Fifty Famous Australians'. I will not mention all of them and it is by no means an allinclusive list, but it was very interesting to glance through the names. I would like to mention some of the names which appeared, for example, under the heading 'Explorers and Leaders', just by way of putting a positive suggestion. The explorers I could suggest whose lives are worth depicting on television and in films would be Sturt. Hume, Mawson, Cunningham and a great many others. Among leaders and jurists there would be such men as  Sir Henry  Parkes, Peter Lalor,  Sir Isaac  Isaacs,  Sir Edmund  Barton,  Sir Alfred  Deakin, W. M. Hughes,  Sir John  Monash, John Curtin, Dame Enid Lyons, Lord Bruce of Melbourne and Lord Casey of Berwick. There are a great many others. Among poets, writers and singers there would be Adam Lindsay Gordon, Henry Lawson, Banjo Paterson, Dame Nellie Melba,  Mrs Aeneas  Gunn, Joan Sutherland the famous signer and Eileen Joyce the international pianist of note. Among the men and women of science and medicine would be Lord Florey- -ealier  Sir Howard  Florey- the codiscoverer of penicillin which has transfored medical science and saved so many lives. There would also be William Farrer whose names will always be identified with the wheat industry, and  Sir Joseph  Banks. People famous in primary and secondary industries would include John Macarthur, Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, the founder of our frozen meat trade which has meant so much to this country, Essington Lewis, one of the great names in industry. Social reformers would include  Mrs Caroline  Chisholm and  Mrs Daisy  Bates. Famous airmen would include  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith,  Sir Ross  Smith and Bert Hinkler, who is well-known in Queensland as the Bundaberg Boy. There are noted sportsmen and sportswomen in a whole variety of fields such as- and I mention only a few of them- swimming, tennis, cricket and athletics. 
I believe there have been Australians who could hold their own anywhere in the world, and the depicting of their lives, achievements and performances would be a very positive contribution towards improving the content and standard of these productions. Recently we all received a circular letter from The Professional Musicians' Union of Australia enclosing a fairly bulky paper which contains a comment under the heading of 'The Power of Television' with which I agree very much. It states: 
Television is the single most influential medium for the dissemination of information and for the recording and development of our national identity and culture. 
I agree with that statement. I hope that in what I have said this morning there is some food for thought for Australian producers in the field of entertainment and enlightenment which might perhaps help to improve Australian programs. 
-Ring the bells. (The bells being rung) 
-Order! The time allotted for the remaining stages of the BUI has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The point is upheld. 
I wish also to compliment the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for introducing this Bill which provides $450,000 to be spent during the current year on flood mitigation works in the Ryan Federal electorate in Brisbane which I have the honour to represent. This proposal, as the Minister has pointed out, represents the first contribution from Canberra for flood mitigation in urban areas of the States. It will certainly be a boon to a large number of residents who for years have suffered considerably whenever very heavy rain has fallen. It is good to have the Minister's assurance, subject of course to parliamentary approval which I have no doubt will be readily forthcoming, that further funds will be made available in future as the work proceeds and as the need arises. I regret that the joint move has been so long in coming to fruition. The loss of lives and the serious damage to many homes in Brisbane during the devastating flood of January 1974 are still fresh in the minds of all who suffered. 
The proposal to make a substantial sum available for flood mitigation is a very important step in the right direction. I know it will be warmly welcomed, especially in those areas that have been affected most. I should like also to compliment the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council on the joint arrangement which I understand has been made. It is the result of a good co-operative effort which deserves warm commendation. For years negotiations have been proceeding at all levels of government and repeated representations have been made by me and by State and municipal representatives. Some public meetings have been held, particularly in the Enoggera district. On such occasions as my parliamentary duties have allowed I have attended these meetings, along with other public representatives. I believe that our joint representations to the various authorities concerned have helped to reach the present stage. 
People living in the flood prone suburbs surrounding Enoggera Creek for years have lived in fear of the loss and damage that the next cyclone season or the next heavy storms would bring. Of course there are other areas besides Enoggera Creek that are also badly affected from time to time. It will be most reassuring to the long suffering citizens in these areas when the Parliament passes this legislation, as I am sure it will. The commencement, and more especially the completion, of these much needed flood mitigation works will be looked forward to keenly and will help to relieve many anxious minds in the areas. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
-In the Brisbane 'Telegraph ' of 25 June 1 974 in the column called 'People's Forum' there was a letter by a Brisbane resident,  Mr A.  Nicholls of Bulimba, under the heading 'Frightening comparison'. I quote his words: 
It is interesting and in some respects frightening to see how closely the present political situation in Australia is aligning itself with the Soviet take-over pattern of Czechoslovakia, the details of which were laid out in the Soviet manual circulated by the British Labor Leader, Lord Morrison. 
He is better known as Herbert Morrison.  Mr Nicholls  continued: 
The Soviet manual lays down the 10 steps essential to a bloodless transition to socialism (communism). 
One might, I suppose, substitute the words: 'The Quiet Revolution'. The 10-point program is given step by step and approximately one-half of the steps have on the record already been taken in this country. Tacked on to the Labour Day marsh in Brisbane last month was a contingent with a big banner called 'Red Contingent'. This was clearly an unwanted addition to the march. 
It marred the march. It was a substantial embarrassment to the leaders of the march. It proved in the end to be a noisy, disruptive and serious embarrassment to  Mr Egerton,  the State  President  in Queensland of the Labor Party, and also to  Mr Hawke,  the Federal  President  of the Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
I think it is high time that we in this Parliament took serious note of the inroads that are being made by international communism throughout the world. Twenty years ago one-third of the world's population was under the control of communism. Today two-thirds of the world's population are under the yoke of that philosophy. I have in my hands a photostat of a 4-page leaflet that comes from America. It is entitled: 'Communist Rules For Revolution'. The leaflet was secured by a State Attorney's office in the United States of America from a known member of the Communist Party who acknowledged it to be part of the communist program for the overthrowing of the Western governments. On the first page is the insigna of the hammer and sickle. Under it appears a quote from  Mr Guss  Hall, the General Secretary of the Communist Party in the United States of America. Guss Hall said: 
I dream of the hour when the last congressman is strangled to death on the guts of the last preacher, and since the Christians seem to love to sing about the blood, why not give them a little of it. 
Slit the throats of their children and drag them over the mourners' bench and the pulpit and allow them to drown in their own blood, and then see if they enjoy singing these Hymns. 
What a delightful suggestion! At page 2 of the leaflet there are 3 headings, A, B and C, and in the limited time available to me I will try to cover these communist rules for revolution. They read: 
Corrupt the young, get them away from religion. Get them interested in sex. Make them superficial, destroy their ruggedness. 
Get control of all means of publicity and thereby: 
Get people's minds off their governments by fucussing their attention on athletics, sexy books, plays and other trivialities. 
Divide the people into hostile groups by constantly harping on controversial matters of no importance. Destroy the people's faith in their natural leaders by holding the latter up to contempt, ridicule and . . . ( abuse). 
Always preach true democracy, but seize power as fast and ruthlessly as possible. 
By encouraging government extravagance . . . produce fear of inflation with rising prices and general discontent. 
Foment unnecessary strikes in vital industries, encourage civil disorders, and foster a lenient and soft attitude on the part of government towards such disorders. 
By specious argument cause the breakdown of the old moral virtues, honesty, sobriety, continence, faith in the pledged word, ruggedness. 
Cause the registration of all firearms on some pretext . . . with a view to confiscating them and leaving the population helpless. 
On the third page, under the heading 'Ten Facts Concerning Communism', it states: 
Did you know? 
-I am very pleased that the Government has introduced this measure. I should like to compliment the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  on his interest in this field. Quite some time ago I remember that I asked the Minister before he was AttorneyGeneral and when he was the Minister in this place representing the Attorney-General, one or two questions about this matter, and from the replies that he gave me at that time it was quite obvious to me that the Minister, who of course is now the Attorney-General, was genuinely interested in the appointment of an Australian ombudsman to protect the rights of private citizens. Although most, if not all, of the States have appointed ombudsmen or parliamentary commissioners of administrative investigation, according to what the title may by, their powers are confined to State spheres and therefore are limited. They have no jurisdiction in relation to matters pertaining to the wider field of the Commonwealth Parliament of Australia. 
I am glad that the Government has moved to fill this gap and to implement, at least partially, the recommendations of the committee chaired by  Sir Henry  Bland, a very distinguished Aus.tralian as we all know. An administrative review committee under the chairmanship of another noted Australian  Sir John  Kerr- now GovernorGeneral but then a member of the Commonwealth Industrial Court- presented an earlier report which was tabled in this House on 14 October 1971, nearly 4 years ago. That was tabled by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who at that time was the Prime Minister. The Kerr Committee recommended the appointment of a senior barrister as a general counsel for grievances or ombudsman, the establishment of a Commonwealth administrative court and an administrative review tribunal. 
The BUI now before the House has its origin in the Kerr report, referred to a short time ago by my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and also by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  and more specifically in the subsequent recommendations of the Bland Committee. An ombudsman is essentially an officer of the Parliament, a point I suggest that we must constantly bear in mind, and he must report to the Parliament regularly. He and, preferably in my judgment, his staff should be free from Public Service control. The notion of an official to investigate the workings of government is, of course, not new. The old Roman Republic had the Office of Censor which examined complaints about the performance of officials. The Chancellor in earlier English days reviewed petitions from citizens about the workings of government. Other similar examples are to be found in medieval Europe. The first modern example is, of course, to be seen in Sweden The occupant of the offie of ombudsman- a 
Scandinavian word meaning agent or attorneyis an impartial person independent of the government of the day, appointed by and acting on behalf of the Parliament. The Swedish ombudsman was appointed as far back as 1809, and his formal powers have remained unaltered since that time. He has access to all files and minutes of courts and agencies and he is entitled to be present during their deliberations and decision making. Although he cannot change any decision already delivered he may petition the Government, Parliament and agencies to rectify deficiencies in the laws or otherwise to further the public interest. The office has always derived its importance from the fact that it represents the Parliament and that its holder enjoys the confidence of the Parliament although he is not in any way instructed by the Parliament regarding his investigations. 
Finland established a similar office in 1919. Denmark established one in 1953-54 and Norway established one in 196 1 . Other countries that have adopted the ombudsman system include New Zealand in 1962 and the United Kingdom in 1967, both countries having been mentioned in the Attorney-General's second reading speech. West Germany has a similar system for military affairs alone. If I may make just a passing reference, I welcome the fact that the Government has decided to introduce a Bill to establish a defence force ombudsman in Australia. The Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration in the United Kingdom, generally referred to by the British public and the Press as the ombudsman, differs from his counterparts in New Zealand and elsewhere in that he investigates only complaints referred to him by members of the House of Commons, whereas all other ombudsmen deal directly with complaints. I believe that the latter process is by far the better. 
An ombudsman is not, and should not be, in my judgment, a public servant in the accepted sense of the term. I first became very interested in the appointment of an ombudsman for the Commonwealth of Australia when I attended a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Wellington along with my colleague on the other side of the House, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  early in 1971 when we had the privilege of meeting and hearing the New Zealand ombudsman,  Sir Guy  Powles already referred to in the debate tonight. We all were tremendously impressed with him. He is a most distinguished officer and obviously is a very great success in his job. 
The report of the adminstrative review committee referred to earlier dealt in chapter 7 with overseas systems of administrative law with particular reference to the United Kingdom and New Zealand. It stressed the fundamental importance of choosing a person with suitable background, experience and personality and pointed out that the success of the New Zealand experiment was no doubt due to  Sir Guy's  prior experience as a lawyer, soldier, diplomat and administrator. Professor Walter Gellhorn an eminent American adminstrative lawyer, said after a very thorough examination of the ombudsman's work in practice in New Zealand: 
New Zealand's ombudsman has been a striking personal success. 

 Sir Guy has described his role as providing a 'safety valve' and has said that under the powers vested in him by the New Zealand Parliament he has been able to assist many frustrated citizens who did not know where to go with their complaints. I am pleased to learn from the AttorneyGeneral that in preparing this legislation now before the House advantage has been taken of the experience of ombudsmen in other countries. 
In establishing the office of an Australian ombudsman the Government has wisely provided for 2  deputy  ombudsmen, one for the Australian Capital Territory and the other for the Northern Territory. The Federal structure of government in Australia, together with the geographical vastness of the continent, have very properly been taken into account by the Government. To me this Bill is an important step in the right direction. It is true, as the honourable member for Bennelong pointed out earlier, in certain respects the proposals fall short of what we consider desirable. The exercise of administrative powers has inevitably grown over the years with the increasing complexity of modern government. Consequently there is an increasing likelihood of injustice to individual citizens, and of course injustice even in a minor way is wrong. I sincerely trust that the appointment of an Australian ombudsman and the 2  deputy  ombudsmen and the establishment of an Australian Appeals Tribunal will ensure not only that justice is done and is seen to be done but also that what has been described as the delicate path between the rights of individual citizens and harmony in the machinery of government will be clearly and effectively protected. 
The ombudsman Bill which we are now considering gives a certain amount of protection to Ministers and to Government departments. Its private citizens find that the ombudsman is hedged around with too many restrictions on his powers, then they may begin to become disillusioned. This is something which I think we should try to guard against. I think that he cannot be expected to do his job effectively and well if he is not given a reasonably free rein to proceed objectively. I am willing to accept that there is justification for some limitation on his powers, particularly in relation to highly confidential matters which, in the opinion of Ministers, just cannot be disclosed for one good reason or another. If necessary, I believe he should be able to tread heavily on the toes of public servants, including the most senior of them, and even on the toes of Ministers, particularly on administrative matters. The Victorian ombudsman has clearly been doing just this. 
I do not think that anyone would seriously suggest that an ombudsman should be able to probe highly confidential Cabinet decisions on matters of high policy affecting the security of the nation. Under the Bill as it stands, a Minister may withhold certain information from the Ombudsman. This has been pointed out by my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong. I feel that it is important that the Ombudsman should not be hamstrung in his appointed task of redressing grievances and protecting the rights of the ordinary citizen against bureaucratic processes or decisions. This to me is of the essence of the whole exercise. Along with the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Ombudsman Bill I believe, represents a major step in the right direction. I hope that the amendments foreshadowed by my colleague, the honourable member for Bennelong, will be accepted during the Committee stage. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I support the view that has just been put forward by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I think those who have been in the Parliament for a number of years and have heard the matter of a new and permanent Parliament House debated a number of times would agree that the Minister is right when he says that there should be no further delay in proceeding and making a decision and taking the necessary steps to enable the new Parliament House to be got under way. I think one of the most important points to make is that in this matter there will be no major outlay of finance for several years, even after the decision is made to proceed. I admire the attitude that has been taken by the Minister in his attempt to get a decision made on this very important matter for Australia. I do not want to prolong the debate. I merely want to indicate where I stand myself. I believe the Minister is moving in the right direction, and I for one am completely with him. 
-Yes. I uphold the point of order. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate on the 2 measures? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The tables read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508264_58_5.jpg"></graphic>

TABLE 1 

<graphic href="096131197508264_58_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_59_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_60_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_61_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_62_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_63_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_64_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_65_12.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_66_13.jpg"></graphic>

While  Mr Fraser  claims that the Budget: penalises those families that do save, through life or superannuation policies for their old age, and that want to provide a different kind of education for their children - the economics writer for the  National Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald,  Mr Alan  Wood, has pointed out that in reality: 
The Budget does not penalise those who save through life or superannuation policies. It merely removes a socially unjustified and economically costly privilege they formerly enjoyed at the expense of their fellow citizens. 
As the Melbourne  Age  and  Sunday Press  columnist,  Mr Claude  Forell has pointed out: 
If in all fairness you compare what  Mr Fraser  says with what  Mr Hayden  proposes, you will soon realise which is the hoaxer who does nothing to solve our economic problems. 
The destruction of Budget confidence to which the Leader of the Opposition turned his hand last week would have been less significant if it had not been echoed and amplified by important sections of the Australian media. The Sydney  Daily Mirror  contributed nothing to the confidence building process when it headlined Wednesday's post Budget edition 'Budget Ripoff'. The Sydney  Sun  contributed nothing when in its same edition it used the headline 'Budget Trap' and the subheading 'Cruel Hoax on Workers'. I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  leading articles from the Daily Mirror and the Sun so that honourable members can see for themselves how badly a nation is served by newspapers which have malice for their motivatim and misrepresentation for their method. The Budget is a blueprint not only for economic recovery but for social purpose. In pointing the way ahead economically, the Budget preserves and consolidates the great strides forward which have been taken over the last 3 years. It catalogues achievements in which each and every one of us is entitled to take a continuing pride. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I must now refer back to the request made by the honourable member for Casey for the incorporation in Hansard of certain Budget tables. I ask the honourable member to clarify his request. Does he want the whole of those tables that he has handed to the honourable member for Berowra to be incorporated, or only part of them? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister representing the Special Minister of State: What was the original estimated cost of the Women and POlitiCS Conference in Canberra? If the actual cost exceeds the estimated cost does this mean that other planned International Women's Year activities will suffer, or will the Government make good the difference out of general revenue? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The documents read as follows)- 
-About 2 years ago much prominence was given by the media to the Government's proposal to grant jurisdiction over all waters and islands north of 10 degrees south latitude to an independent Papua New Guinea. Apart from the rights and wishes of the island people involved, a strong objection to the proposal was that Australia would lose control of the great north-east channel which connects the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The matter remains unresolved. As Independence Day for Papua New Guinea is scheduled for 16 September, I feel that it is appropriate to produce to the House some important and relevant information which has been furnished to me by a constituent of mine who is very well qualified to speak of activities and possibilities in our coastal waters. 
I refer to what is known as a scheme of hydrographic surveys, a program scheduled to be undertaken by the hydrographic service of the Royal Australian Navy between January 1975 and December 1979. 1 understand that is called 'Hydroscheme 75' for short. My constituent has a copy of a publication of the scheme. The survey is to be made from Adolphus Channel to Rain Island Entrance, the preferred season for the work being September to November. It is estimated that 2 seasons will be required to complete the work. My constituent feels, as I do, that it is significant that 'Hydroscheme 75 ' was drawn up in consultation with the Department of Transport in Canberra and not, as was formerly the case, in open forum and with all interested parties attending. Raine Island Entrance is an opening to the Coral Sea through the Great Barrier Reef. I am informed that it has not been used in living memory except perhaps by a few fishing craft. The 90 miles between Adolphus Channel and Raine Island Entrance has, I am told, never been surveyed in detail. This would be necessary if it is intended for use by commercial vessels up to 39 feet draught- the current maximum draught possible in the area. Apart from the cost of the survey itself, the further cost of providing sea marks and lights to indicate a channel would be very high. The existing marked and lit Great North East Channel adequately provides for shipping in the area and is used extensively. The distance from Booby Island to Port Moresby, using this channel, is 355 miles. The distance if the Raine Island Entrance channel is proved and activated would be 372 miles. 
It is very difficult to understand why all this expense is being incurred in surveying and possibly marking a new channel which offers no advantage over the one currently in use and which would, indeed, be 17 miles longer. So far as can be ascertained, neither local nor overseas shipping interests have requested that an alternative to the Great North East Channel be found. I am assured that no representations have been made by the Torres Strait Pilot Service and that the Service is perfectly content with the present situation. It may be, of course, that the survey is being done as a Department of Defence exercise to provide an alternative in case use by Australia of the Great North East Channel becomes impossible in an emergency situation. If, however, a deep draught Raine Island EntranceAdolphus Channel waterway is proved and put into commercial use, considerable political advantage could be taken of it. The extra 17 miles which would have to be steamed is not considered enough in itself to raise objections from ship-owning interests and the national government could, with truth, claim that an alternative channel from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific Ocean around the north of Australia now existsall of it lying in waters south of latitude 10 degrees south. That would then allow the Government in Canberra to hand over jurisdiction north of 10 degrees south to Papua New Guinea without risking any accusation that Australia's defence capacity was thereby being jeopardised. 
I share my constituent's insistence that control of the waterways and islands of the Torres Strait area must never be relinquished to any foreign country, however friendly. There are many uncertainties in our region in the years ahead. I raise these matters publicly and deliberately at this time and would like very much to have a full explanation of the Government's intentions and actions. The safety and security of Australia and of the waterways around it are necessarily of deep concern to all in this country who seek its maximum protection. 
-Is the honourable member for Griffith raising a point of order? I ask the honourable member for Blaxland to resume his seat while the point of order is being raised. 
House often say, socialises its losses and capitalises its gains. It does not mind government involvement when its supporters want money; but, if there is any government involvement which will benefit anybody else, then the Country Party is not interested. 
It is interesting also that the Leader of the National Country Party referred to 'the Government's commo mates in Eastern Europe'. Look at the double-speak: The reality is that, while we were fighting in Vietnam and while the same right honourable gentleman was sending Australian boys to their death, his Government was still trading with China. He was still flying to China trying to bring about wheat deals while we were at war with North Vietnam which was being supplied with food from China. So much for the hypocrisy of honourable members opposite. The real crux of his remarks related to our attitude to exports. One of the matters he mentioned was the revaluation of the Australian currency.  His  proposition was that we discriminated unfairly against exporters because we happened to revalue the Australian dollar. The whole world knew that Australia's currency was seriously undervalued. When the Liberal and National Country Parties were in government there was a 3-day wrangle between the Leader of the National Country Party and his  Deputy  and the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  and the then Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  as to whose will would prevail in relation to the parity of the Australian dollar. While the Treasury,  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Snedden  said that the situation was serious, that we had to revalue the currency to stop the speculative inflow into Australia, the National Country Party selfishly opposed revaluation because of the wealthy interests that is represents. The decision of the Labor Government to revalue the currency meant that imports became a little cheaper and that the Australian consumer got some consideration. It did not mitigate against exports. If we look at our export figures for the last 2 years we see that they are starting to rocket again. We have never had any problem of a lack of overseas reserves. Our main problem was that our overseas reserves were too high. 
The Leader of the National Country Party also complained that we cut tariffs. We cut tariffs simply because there was not enough domestic produce in Australia and demand was forcing up the prices of Australian commodities without any import competition. That was a welcome decision. The right honourable gentleman then talked again about the export coal tax. We heard him in this House yesterday representing the 
American companies which operate in Queensland and which buy him off on a regular basis.  (Quorum formed.)  It is a pity that the Opposition cannot listen to some reasoned argument. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who called for the quorum, always gets very testy towards the end of the week. We on this side of the House think that probably he does not have a girl and is a bit frustrated. 
There has been constant criticism of the Government's policies in respect of exports. One of the specific criticisms of late is to the effect that our policies mitigate against exports, particularly in respect of coal. The point which the Opposition fails to make all the time is that it is singularly because of this Government's efforts that in 2 years coal export prices have moved up 200 per cent for coking coal and 150 per cent for other coals. This was brought about because of the government to government dealing between this Government and the Government of Japan. 
When one looks at the concept of this Trading Corporation one finds that it spells out the same principle again. Let the members of the Opposition go to the coal exporting companies in Australia and see where, in their view, the dramatic increase in price has come from. That increase was the prices with Japan. Previous Liberal-Country Party governments left our exporters straggling off to Japan to be picked off one after the other, competing against themselves, Queensland competing against New South Wales, with no order and no planning and of course no reasonable price. Yet because we impose a duty of only $6 a tonne on coking coal we hear the National Country Party bleating. 
I shall mention some figures in relation to just a couple of mines in Queensland. Two years ago the Blackwater mine was receiving for its export coking coal a price of $ 1 2.62 a tonne. It is now receiving $48 a tonne. The Goonyella mine was receiving $ 1 3.44 a tonne 2 years ago and is now receiving $38.50. We are asking for $2 and $6 a tonne in respect of these coals so that we may siphon off a sum of $130m to the Australian people who deserve some benefit from the windfall gains of American companies operating in the coal export trade. So much for coal. 
No matter where one looks in respect of exports this Government has been serious in its endeavours. In respect of wool, our major export commodity, we set up a floor price scheme to guarantee the existence of the Australian wool industry. That is something the National Country Party would never have set up and something that was never proposed by the Opposition when in government. The scheme was set up by this Government and has been supported by it ever since it came to office. It has guaranteed the existence of the Australian wool industry. The iron ore companies in Australia had almost gone to the economic wall 2 years ago but they were saved through government to government negotiations by the Australian Government with the Government of Japan. The same goes for coal, uranium, and now for wheat. 
We have just consummated wheat deals with the Eastern bloc countries. We did not hear any bleating from the National Country Party or its supporters, the wheat growers, about the fact that the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, went to the Eastern bloc countries and negotiated that deal or about the sugar deal that we made with China. Those deals were made by the Government of Australia with the governments of other countries. Every government should have some instrumentality to trade with, to make extensive long term trade agreements for special commodities. What we are proposing with the establishment of this Overseas Trading Corporation is not unique. The United States of America has assisted its exporters with the Export-Import Bank. In Japan there is the Ministry of International Trade and Industry which has the final say and puts its imprimatur on all long term export deals. The European Economic Community deals on a government to government basis. It has just finished its negotiations with Egypt and it is now starting to negotiate with Algeria, Israel and Norway. I have a clipping from a newspaper in New Zealand- just across the Tasman. The article is from the  New Zealand Herald Financial Review  and is headed 'New trading corporation signing up major firms'. The article states that the controversy and dire forebodings attending the birth of this corporation a little more than a year ago have waned. Of course, major New Zealand companies support this overseas trading corporation. 
But the Opposition in Australia, when in government, did very little for exports. From 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the export subsidy went to the 7 largest Australian companies. The money did not go to small companies. The Minister sitting at the table, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  when in Opposition constantly made the point on the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation amendments that we should have an export finance facility. When we came into government we set up an export finance facility which was the same as the United States Import-Export Bank which, of course, has been of enormous assistance in guaranteeing finance in high value transactions at low rates of interest over extended periods. That facility did not exist prior to our coming into government. Indeed, even the introduction of the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation was opposed by two-thirds of the Opposition. They were opposed to the concept. 
To give John McEwen his due, he was more of an Australian than the crew from the National Country Party that sits in Gun's Gulley at the moment. He said that it was time that we had some export facility. Previously the British marine insurance companies picked up all the lucrative profits of marine insurance. None of the commercial companies wanted to handle the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation charter so we had to set up a Government facility. The commercial companies thought it would be a risk venture and were happy to let the Government take the risk. But when the Corporation started to operate profitably it was a different matter. It became part of the landscape and one of the accepted norms. Whenever the Labor Party advocates the setting up of an export finance facility there is something wrong. Whenever it advocates the setting up of an overseas trading facility there is something wrong. Whenever the Government advocates dealing on a government to government basis in coal or iron ore it is called creeping socialism. If we set up a wool price plan we do not hear the bleatings from the National Country Party about creeping socialism because we are pumping money into their supporters so they go quietly. It is just double speak all the way. 
The point is that Australia needs trade to maintain the prosperity of its economy. We benefit from it. It cannot be all the one way. We have an enormous trading imbalance. We export more than we import. We cannot be dogs in the manger and suggest to people that they buy our exports without our taking some of their manufactures. So if we are to deal with them we should be able to deal with them on a government to government basis. One of the central thrusts of this Bill is that we deal with the Eastern Bloc countries and with the Middle East countries who deal on a government to government basis. The Middle East now has enormous cash flows and it is prepared to do business on a long term basis in capital equipment, food and other commodities of that nature, including secondary manufactures because the Middle East does not have secondary industry. It is foolhardy for us not to have some facility to negotiate. 
About 90 per cent of the companies in Australia have fewer than 100 employees. They do not have enough capital or enough economic facilities to make long term agreements with these countries. The proposed Corporation could aggregate the products of these businesses, move into long term deals and syphon off the exportable surplus of small Australian manufacturers. These manufacturers could provide exports under long term agreements between Australia and, say, the Middle East countries or, indeed, the Eastern Bloc countries where it is not possible, because of the fact that a monopoly situation exists in selling and wholesaling, for a company to go and advertise its products, develop a market and keep the market in its own right. Companies just cannot go into these countries and do that. We need a corporation like the one proposed to make that sort of arrangement with one of the Eastern Bloc countries. That is one of the benefits of this Bill.  (Quorum formed). 
One of the principal points the Minister has made is that the Corporation is not designed to disadvantage private enterprise. It is not there to knock business around. It is not intended to get into markets which have already been developed and where there are good trading facilities and in fact where there are enormous retail outlets for products. That is not its role. Its role is to go into places where markets have not been developed. Its role is to attract and develop new business. 
The Minister has had the support of the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association of Australia the Australian Manufacturers Export Council and the Australian Chambers of Commerce. He has written into the Bill, explicit safeguards which provide for appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Any company that feels it is disadvantaged by the Corporation transgressing its territory in a specific trading situation can appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to have the trading arrangements varied. 
In every other respect the Corporation is to operate as a normal commercial operation. It is a statutory corporation, in the same way as Trans.Australia Airlines, the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, Qantas Airways Ltd and other Australian Government instrumentalities are. It will have no favours from the Government except that it will have $lm in capital and it will, of course, show returns. It will report to the Minister and be subject to audit by the AuditorGeneral. Beyond that it will operate as a normal commercial operation. 
Perhaps the other tiling we may do one day to supplement the Corporation  is to  move into a Government warehousing scheme.  Mr Duncan  White, a good friend of mine in Sydney who is interested in this concept and who has worked in the Department of Overseas Trade developed the concept of a warehousing scheme which would tailor in with the concept that we are discussing today. Warehousing is also mentioned in the Bill. The establishment of the Corporation is a perfectly reasonable proposition. It is not a matter of creeping socialism. Every other comparable country has a similar organisation. It is time that the Liberals and members of the National Country Party stopped talking this ideological rubbish about socialism and accepted the fact that the Bill before us is a positive measure which is in line with other positive measures we have looked at and implemented in the field of export development in which this Government has a first class record. I commend the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation to the House. It deserves the support of all members of the House, and I hope it will be supported in the Senate. 
-In that case I must rule it out of order also. 
-The abstract which appears on page 3 of the Appropriation 
Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 shows that the appropriation for Parliament is the second lowest of the appropriation for all Government departments which appear on that page. The appropriation for the year ended 30 June 1976 is $1 1,499,000. The lowest of all the appropriations is the appropriation for the Department of Environment, for which an amount of $7,703,000 has been provided. Of course, the Department of Environment is a very new department whereas Parliament is a very old institution going back for centuries. I do not think that it can be justly said that the appropriation is overmuch. The examination of these estimates gives us an opportunity annually to have an objective and bipartisan look at the working of the Parliament, its failings and the work that we are doing or trying to do to find ways and means of improving the system. 
I believe that credit should be given where credit is due. I will give credit to the present Government under 3 headings. Firstly, I give credit to the Government for introducing the automatic adjournment rule which has been in force for a very long time at Westminster, the mother of Parliaments. Now, we have an automatic adjournment question put at 10.30 p.m. and the House, after debating the question that the House adjourn, rises at 11 p.m. I think it should be pointed out that even then it is midnight or later before many of the people who work in this building are able to go home. I refer particularly to the Clerks of the House, the Hansard reporters, the car drivers and the various other people in this building. I hope that we will never return to sitting until very late hours at night, as used to obtain in times gone by. 
I say unequivocally that from every point of view the late sittings until 1 o'clock, 2 o'clock, 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock, 5 o'clock and even 6 o'clock- I can remember that we sat until 6 o'clock on one occasion- were thoroughly bad. I think that practice should be denounced. Ironically, in the early 1960s- I think it was 1962-I, as a member of the Standing Orders Committee, tried very hard to have the automatic adjournment rule introduced in this chamber. I was unsuccessful because at that time it was opposed by the Australian Labor Party members of the Standing Orders Committee. I am very glad that since coming into power the Labor Party has seen the light and has adopted the suggestion which I think I was the first to put forward. 
Secondly, I commend the Government on the fairly regular grievance day debates that we have had under standing order 106 and also on the fairly regular general business day debates which have been conducted under standing order 104. Having said that, I believe there are many important areas that need to be improved. The first is in regard to questions without notice. On many occasions the questions are too long, and also on many occasions the answers from Ministers are too long. I believe the answer may be found in giving greater powers to  Mr Speaker.  I have been having a good look at this with some of my colleagues. I have drafted an amendment to standing order 145 which I hope in due course to have an opportunity of putting to the Standing Orders Committee of which I am still a member. The powers of the  Speaker  at the moment under standing order 145 are limited to relevance. That standing order reads: 
An answer shall be relevant to the question. 
I believe that if  Mr Speaker  were given greater powers in relation to both questions and more particularly to answers by Ministers we would see a great improvement and a greater number of questions asked and answered each day. 
I should like to see the Standing Orders Committee meet more frequently as it used to do in years gone by. I realise the difficulties. The members of it comprise, to a great extent, the most senior people on both sides of this chamber- the Prime Minister and others. They are extremely busy. It is very difficult indeed, as I know from past experience, for the  Speaker  to arrange a meeting of the Standing Orders Committee at which all the members or at least the greater number and particularly the important ones can be present. I think perhaps a look could be had at the appointment of sub-committees of the Standing Orders Committee. On one or two occasions at least I have served on sub-committees for particular purposes in relation to Standing Orders. I think this was a useful exercise. 
I refer now to questions on notice. Today's notice paper shows a considerable number of questions remaining unanswered. Some date back as far as July 1974. A glance through them suggests that a number of them could have been answered without too much difficulty or time. By the same token some questions on the notice paper are far too long. For instance on today's notice paper there is a question taking up 2 full pages. It is dated 10 April 1 975 and was put in by a Liberal member. A question placed on the notice paper by a Labor member and dated 3 September, a few days ago, takes up 114 pages. Both of these questions, I submit, are far too long. Maybe we should have a look at the Westminster system which limits the number of words that may be included in a question to 70 words. 
My next point relates to quorums. The quorum of 33% per cent, which was established under section 39 of the Australian Constitution, is the highest, as far as I can discover, in the world. It is the equivalent of the quorum required in the Lok Sabha in India and is much too high in today's circumstances. I suggest an adequate and more appropriate quorum would be 20 per cent or perhaps 25 per cent. Ministers and members have a great deal of work to attend to in the Parliament other than what they have to do in this chamber. I think this is not generally recognised outside the Parliament. There is a great deal of committee work which takes a lot of time. I refer not only to the actual sittings of the committee but also to the preparation for committee meetings. There is also research for speeches or for committee meetings, correspondence with Ministers, correspondence with constituents, seeing Ministers on behalf of constituents and so on. All this takes time. 
It is quite impossible to expect a very high quorum of members in a busy chamber in this modern world. A Bill was introduced, as my friend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  reminded me a moment ago, some years ago along. the lines I have just mentioned. Unfortunately it was allowed to lapse. Somebody moved an amendment. The Bill was bogged down and left at the bottom of the notice paper. The Parliament was dissolved and the Bill was not brought forward in the new Parliament. Finding adequate time for dealing with legislation, committee work and other matters is an increasing problem for all of us. The volume of work continues to grow both here and in our electorates. I believe the time is coming when this national Parliament will have to sit for longer periods each year, as is the case in a number of other national Parliaments- for example, Westminster, Washington, New Delhi and others. This will mean less time for members to spend in their electorates. 
My next major and final point concerns the committee system which, I think we will all agree, is a vital part of the machinery of the Parliament. We all await with much interest the report of the joint committee which was appointed to examine and make recommendations relating to the committee system. I have thought for a long time that we need to develop a better system for examining the annual estimates of expenditure. The Senate has 7 Estimates Committees each dealing with a particular group of departments. The examination in this chamber is far from satisfactory and is really little more than a mini-Budget debate. I am not in favour of too great a proliferation of committees, but some way must clearly be found for a closer and more detailed examination of proposed national expenditure, perhaps along the lines followed in the United Kingdom and in Canada. Possibly this objective could best be achieved by extending the powers and size of the Public Accounts Committee, on which members of both Houses of the Parliament are represented. 
-Order! The time allotted for the second reading of the Bill has expired. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-Like the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder),  I wish to devote a good part of my speech to the question of overseas aid. I notice from Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 that it appears that the Government proposes an increased total outlay for 1975-76 of about $44!£m over the actual expenditure of the previous financial year. I, like many other honourable members, for a long time have taken a great interest in projects designed to help less fortunate countries than Australia. But we live in a rapidly changing world. I shall say something more about that aspect directly. 
Until recent years Australia was undoubtedly, to borrow Donald Home's phrase, a 'Lucky Country'. The story of the last two or three years has changed the overall picture in this region of the world and indeed in the world at large. Donald Home himself in a recent article clearly conceded this change in relation to Australia and Australia's position. This leads me to the first main point I should like to make; that is, whether the time has not come for Australia to make a major reappraisal of its overseas aid program. 
The honourable member for Evans pointed out that 85 per cent of the expenditure for the Department of Foreign Affairs is in relation to overseas aid. My question is: Are our priorities right? Of course, included in that 85 per cent of expenditure is our total contribution to the United Nations under various headings. I think it is important to note that Canada recently decided on a major review and reassessment of its whole overseas aid programs in this changing world. I believe that we should do this too. Incidentally, reports by Professor Henderson as we all know show a tragically high degree of poverty in Australia. In recent months I have come more and more to consider the force of the argument that we have heard many times from many quarters that charity begins at home, although of course it does not end there. 
I am not suggesting for a moment that we abandon or even seriously reduce our overseas aid program; what I am suggesting is that in the present difficult economic situations we should have a good hard look at our priorities. I am by no means satisfied that we have our priorities right in relation to the large amounts of money Australia proposes to send abroad during the current financial year. At the same time I reiterate that I still uphold the principle I have always upheld, that the more fortunate countries should help those less fortunate provided- this is quite an important proviso in my book- that the help is channelled to the people most in need and in ways that are most required. 
Over the years when Australia was prosperous and economically stable I unequivocally supported our bilateral aid programs, particularly our aid to Papua New Guinea and under the Colombo Plan- which was initiated by this country some 25 years ago- our contribution to international education and training schemes, our food aid and disaster relief and other emergency relief programs and so on. Our total bilateral aid program proposed for the current financial year is to cost $318m-odd compared with an actual expenditure under this heading in the previous financial year of about $278Vim. I am bearing in mind that the Australian dollar will buy considerably less this financial year than it did even a year ago. 
I still strongly support in principle our multilateral aid programs, especially our contributions to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian Development Bank and the International Development Association. Excluding our financial contributions to the United Nations and its various agencies and subsidiaries, Australia proposes this financial year to spend $30,206,000 on multilateral aid compared with an actual outlay in the last financial year of just over $26m. The area of expenditure on overseas aid most in need of review is in my judgment in relation to the United Nations. Originally high in concept and ideals for the establishment of a true and lasting peace and for the general betterment of mankind, the United Nations as a whole has been in many respects a costly failure. Many of its agencies and subsidiaries indeed do, and have done over the years, valuable work. But overall, our financial contributions to the United Nations are out of proportion to the results achieved by that world-wide organisation. 
In particular I query one line of the estimates. I query the proposed payment by Australia again in this current financial year of the sum of $150,000-one cannot say that that is a large sum, but it is a significant sum- for the purpose of 'humanitarian assistance to national liberation movements in Africa'. Put in blunter terms, $150,000 contributed by the Australian taxpayers is being allocated to further the cause of what has been described by a leading African judge as 'the unspeakable evil of terrorism'. He went on to explain what he called 'a monstrous distortion of the truth'. He said it was a story 'of barbaric and inhuman conduct' on the part of certain groups of armed terrorists who have crossed the borders from neighbouring countries in certain parts of the African continent, a campaign mounted and sustained, it is clear, by the forces of international communism, in the course of which campaign many innocent black people as well as white have been tortured and slain. This sum of $150,000, although not a magnificent sum, should be deleted from these estimates and distributed amongst the poverty stricken people of our own country. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I insist on order from both sides. Interjections are disorderly. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="097131197510152_47_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510152_47_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510152_47_4.jpg"></graphic>

This Bill further extends or perhaps more correctly reinstates certain provisions under which bounty may be claimed. It extends the assistance of book bounty to the production in Australia of law reports. It removes law reports from lists of excluded publications. In fact the previous exclusion of law reports from the previous Bill, I think it occurred last year, has resulted in some printing and publishing being lost to Australia, probably needlessly. The eligibility for bounty of law reports has had a chequered history. When first introduced, the rules applied were those for the determination of different categories of postal rates under the Post Office regulations. It led to bounty being allowed in some States and not in others. The then Department of Customs recommended- the recommendation was adoptedthat law reports should be eligible. In June 1971, the decision was reversed on the grounds that law reports were periodicals- which at that time had become ineligible- and that they did not contain sufficient original matter. However, representations to a Tariff Board inquiry succeeded in obtaining a recommendation for the bounty to be again allowed. The Department of Manufacturing Industry rejected that recommendation, probably understandably. I am not critical of its judgment at that time because the judgment was made on the basis that there was not a great likelihood that law reports would be printed overseas. Therefore I am not attacking the Department or criticising it for its decision. 
But due to an acute acceleration of printing and paper costs that opinion had to be revised. 
We have arrived at a situation where, with bounty not being allowed, a quotation in Hong Kong for one such printing was $2,906.67 plus air freight to Australia of perhaps $600. In Australia the quotation was $4,422. Other similar reports saw such examples as a Hong Kong quote of $1,893.33 as against a Sydney quote of $3,505.50. I have been assured that the quality and performance of the Hong Kong printers, after the initial performance, were as good as those obtained in Australia. This of course meant that there was a loss of worrying proportions by the Australian printing industry to overseas printers. The consequence to the industry, employment and job opportunities were likely to be of serious proportions. One very large publisher asserts that his organisation could have faced the situation where without bounty, no less than 18 out of 29 titles would have had to be given to overseas printers. 
It has been put to me- it is not my opinion but as it has been put to me I should like to mention it in the context of this debate- that some feel that the legal profession is quite profuse in its publications and has reservations about this amendment and the likelihood of its cost being much more than the estimate of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  of $50,000. 1 think the Minister will accept that in the spirit in which I am saying it. I am putting that forward not as my view but because it is a representation to me I make the point. 
This subsidy must not be allowed to develop into any sort of subsidy to apply to any profession. I look rather to some very desirable improvements which should be facilitated by this new Bill and it very largely follows suggestions put to the Government from the Opposition parties and people who saw us in response to representations we received while the previous Bill was in the Senate last time it was debated. Not only should it retain law reports more generally to the advantage of the Australian printing and publishing industries but also the worth of such reports is largely grounded in their quick availability and accessibility. Overseas printing causes delay in printing and delays in availability to those requiring and needing such reports. This applies not only to those in the legal and accountancy professions but also to many other people. I will say a little more about that later. 
As well as the matter of producing current law reports, past volumes must be available to those newly entering the legal profession and those past sets are very expensive. One firm noted that a full set  Victorian Law Reports  from 1861 cost $2,330 and says that prices in Singapore are negotiable at nearly 50 per cent lower than the comparable Australian quotation. There would, of course, be no way without bounty by which Australian publishers could be cajoled or induced to retain Australian printers when the cost differential is so vast. I revert for a moment to that other aspect I briefly mentioned previously. I quote part of a submission put to me in the form of representations by one very notable Australian publisher. It reads: 
Our concern is not, however, just with cost escalation. Legal publishers are frequently criticised both in Government circles and amongst the profession, for delays in law reporting. Without up-to-date reports a lawyer is clearly deprived of a fundamental tool of trade. Should we be forced to send law reports overseas we are convinced that the speed of reporting would drop considerably due to the problems of distance and communications. With the  Australian Law Reports,  for instance, our stated objective is to produce reports of the High Court of Australia within eight weeks of judgment being handed down. By and large over the last year we have been able to maintain this standard due to efficient local organisation, but it is difficult to see how we could achieve the same result in twice the time should we have to produce these reports overseas. 
It could be that this legislation might come before us again in the future. I will not take time now but certain definitions perhaps could be clarified a little more. For instance, the delineation of the class and nature of works which qualify for a subsidy and the definition of 'substantial part' may need some elucidation but at this stage I merely make a point and leave it at that as perhaps this is not an opportune time to pursue it. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. It sought a widening of the bounty to encompass law reports and that is the point and purpose of today's amended Bill. The observations, the points and the comments we have put forward are put in a constructive spirit and I hope that at the appropriate time they will re:ceive due consideration. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="097131197510233_33_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510233_34_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510233_34_1.jpg"></graphic>

I turn now to the question of company tax. This legislation seeks to reduce company tax by 2½ percent. The $ 120m cut in company taxation can be seen only in the context of a vastly increased level of business costs which will be . incurred as a result of increased government charges. I refer here to the petroleum and coal levies and the postal and telegraph charges. The business community will also be required to take account of the cutbacks in industry assistance. In short, this legislation will contribute more to increased business costs in 1975-76 than it offers by way of concessions. 
As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out in his reply to the Budget Speech, an immediate start should have been made this year to the introduction of the Mathews Committee's recommendations. The Mathews Committee stock valuation proposal could have been implemented at 50 per cent of its recommended rate. Combined with a company tax rate of 45 per cent the maximum cost of this initiative would amount to $380m during the financial year. Such a decision would not only have been of substantial assistance to the private sector this year but also would have "provided an essential basis for longer term planning and investment spending. There would have been no difficulty in the partial adoption of the Mathews Committee stock valuation proposal. In this regard I refer to paragraph 53 of the Mathews report which stated: 
The Committee recommends that the stock sales valuation adjustments and the depreciation allowance adjustments be introduced wholly or partly with respect to the 1974-75 income year. 
The Government's decision not to support the Mathews Committee, a committee which the Government itself established, has no justification. Paragraph 54 of the Mathews report emphasises the fundamental need to alter the present tax structure in these terms: 
. Failure to make the proposed changes will have ... a seriously depressing effect on the level of business activity. 
This Government has flatly ignored the Committee's warnings and the Committee's recommendations. I make it perfectly clear during the course of this debate that the next LiberalNational Country Party government will introduce these proposals in the context of a 3-year program. We reject the Government's attitude and we deplore the manner in which the Treasurer has sought to sabotage and to denigrate the Committee's report. I refer to the leaked documents which apparently are understood or alleged to have come out of the Taxation Office. This inquiry has recommended the most sweeping reforms of the Australian system of company taxation. The Opposition believes that plant and equipment should be depreciated on the basis of replacement cost rather than on historical cost and that companies should be able to revalue their opening stocks at end of year prices. As does the Mathews Committee, the Opposition believes that the basis of company tax should be indexed to compensate for the effects of taxation on corporate profitability. Under this Government companies are being taxed severely on paper profits and corporate capital is being rapidly diminished. If this process is allowed to continue, as it undoubtedly will under this Government, it is quite clear that the capital base of the private sector will be irreparably damaged. 
The next Liberal-National Country Party government is committed to bringing about a return of profitability and a regeneration of investment spending. Under the next government, Australia's economic growth, its capacity to provide jobs and real resources, to get the wheels of industry in this country moving once again, to breathe life into companies both large and small, will be reactivated once again. But if this Whitlam maladministration is allowed to continue in office, there will be no economic recovery. The so-called commitment to the free enterprise system which has been enunciated by the Prime Minister's newfound group of socalled economic rationalists is nothing more than short term political expediency. Their rhetoric is not backed by their policy actions. The Treasurer's campaign against the indexation of company tax is a clear reflection of his unwillingness to support his statements with positive commitment. Why is it that during a debate of such fundamental significance to the Australian community the Federal Treasurer of this country is apparently not even prepared to grace the House with his presence? 
The Opposition rejects the arguments of the so-called Taxation Office paper which, as I mentioned before, was leaked, ostensibly by the Treasurer to the Caucus and to selected sections of the Press as part of his shabby campaign to denigrate the recommendations of the Mathews Committee- a committee that his Government itself established. The Mathews Committee was an objective and representative committee. Included in its membership was a former senior official of the Australian Taxation Office as well as very able persons drawn from the business, trade union and academic spheres. Despite the diverse background of the Committee members the report was unanimous in its recommendations. It contained no dissenting voice. 
I repeat again that the Government's principal reason for not introducing the indexation of company tax is the loss of revenue involved. I remind the House that a recent report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development pointed out that company tax in Australia represents 1 5.6 per cent of total taxation revenue, as compared with the average of 8.5 per cent for the OECD nations. Australia ranks second of all the OECD countries in its reliance on company taxation. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has calculated that the effective rate of company tax during 1973-74 was 66 per cent. This rate was caused by the failure of the taxation system to allow for cost appreciation or for depreciation at replacement cost. It is the view of the Opposition parties that the reduced revenue which would result from company tax indexation is no argument against its introduction. On the contrary, it is an argument for its endorsement. 
The Government has argued that an acrosstheboard company tax cut, as is contemplated by the legislation before the House, will act more equitably and more effectively than indexation. But the Opposition believes- this is endorsed by informed opinion - that indexation is immeasurably superior. The Mathews Committee showed, on the basis of 1971-72 income data, that the percentage reduction in income subject to tax would vary from industry to industry. Inflation affects individual companies in different ways according to the nature of their activities and the structure of their asset holdings. It therefore follows that the solution must take into account the differential impact of inflation. The benefits of the across-the-board tax cut contemplated by this Bill will be distributed between firms according to their apparent profitability based on historical cost accounting methods- not according to the effect of inflation on their true profitability. Furthermore, the straight-out tax cut set out in this legislation will not, of itself, encourage an increase in investment spending. In contrast, taxation indexation would encourage firms with an expanding asset base and would also lead to a more efficient allocation of resources because financial decisions would be made on the basis of real after-tax returns. The 
Treasurer has endeavoured lamentably to promote the idea that some businesses- for example, labour-intensive firms- would not be equitably treated by indexation. The Opposition parties reject this argument as self-evidently absurd. Labour costs are deducted from taxable income and, as the Treasurer of this country ought to be very well aware, there is a complete deduction available for the cost of labour immediately. Even the present Treasurer would not be so foolish as to suggest that inflation erodes labour as inflation erodes capital. 
The Government has suggested that the Mathews Committee's recommendations on depreciation will lead to a deferment of investment and an extension of plant life. Obviously the treasurer has not bothered to read the detailed rebuttal of this proposition contained in the Mathews report. The Opposition believes that the recommended depreciation system will facilitate plant replacement by improving internal cash flow in direct relation to the increasing prices of fixed capital assets. There would be no absolute tax advantage in refraining from the replacement of old equipment and there would be every advantage from obtaining the benefits of new technology. The Treasurer has questioned the administrative feasibility of the proposed new tax system- for example, that the cost of the sales valuation adjustment would lead to administrative difficulties in preventing tax avoidance. This type of criticism is based on the assessment that the present system is optimal in this regard. As the Treasurer should know, the present system offers similar scope for tax avoidance. A significant proportion of the major business tax frauds is concerned with the valuation of stocks, and the Taxation Office does not, in general, test inventory valuations used in tax returns. 
The Mathews Committee consulted with a wide range of accountants in order to test the feasibility of its proposed changes. In addition, it had the benefit of an experienced and able tax administrator as a member of the Committee. Chapter 14 and Appendices B, C and D in the Committee's report canvassed a wide range of administrative options. The Opposition accepts that the introduction of company tax indexation is now a matter of very real urgency. That view is supported by a large number of major groups in the community. It is supported by both inquiries established by this Government. I quote directly from the Asprey Committee which commented in the following terms: 
Further action to bring net income for tax purposes closer to true profits in periods of high inflation is now urgent. 
The indexation of company tax has been supported by independent inquiries in other countries. The Sandilands Committee which recently reported on this matter in the United Kingdom is wholly consistent with the recommendations of the Mathews Committee in Australia. The Opposition parties believe that the Government's denigration of the Mathews Committee is to be deplored in the strongest terms. I challenge the Treasurer to allow Professor Mathews on behalf of his Committee to make public his own views and the Committee's reaction to the leaked document which apparently found its way through the Treasurer's office out of the Taxation Office itself. 
These Bills before the House and this year's Budget are but further reflections of the fabric of dishonesty, inaccuracy and deceit which regrettably are perpetrated by this Government in its approach to the affairs of this House. I can recall no shabbier episode than question time this morning when the Prime Minister of this country for the first time in my recollection was prepared to say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to his  Deputy  and to other front bench spokesmen that he was no longer prepared to answer questions of very significant importance to the Australian community in relation to the loans issue. I ask here, as I have said throughout the whole of the debate on the tax Bills: What is the Government hiding? I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who is seated at the table, whether he is prepared to allow the Opposition parties- bearing in mind that on 3 occasions this week I have been gagged on raising a matter of public importance involving the loans scandal in which this Prime Minister is as intimately involved as the senior colleagues whom he sought to dismiss and sack and in so doing wash his hands- to table during the course of this debate the documents which I referred to this morning in this House. I seek leave to incorporate those documents in Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
WBFB23.14 
DALSONCOM LDN 
KEY + 7 162680 + 
MINMEAA62680 
DALSONCOM LDN 
DALSONCOM LDN 917162 6 1 1975 22 35 2822 75. . 
Attention . . .. Rt.  Hon. Mr R.  F. X. Connor, Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
I and all my associates would like to take this opportunity to wish you and your family all the best for new year. 
Reference my telephone conversation with  Mr Gerry  Karidis, I would like to mention that since I spoke to your last tiem. we have had the same problem which was on commission and that by dealing direct government to government level, it was found impossible to accomodate all concerned from the Arab side as well. That the lending countries. the Saudi Arabian and Kuwaiti governments. it was found impossible to make any arrangements at all. Hence, the visit to the Ambassador's office in Paris had been delayed. as the Arabs wanted the commission from me for their services and emission as well. and for thisI also offer my apologies. for this did not help me at all. 
However. after many efforts and my visit to Saudi Arabia. we came to a good solution and that they had decided to suggest that they shall pay 100 for 100 and in simple words that they are going to increase the rate of interest and give you full or total money and from increased interest they shall pay the commission and their administrators in Europe. And that is thus we have had confirmation from them that they shall charge interest of 8.35 per cent compounded over 20 years with 100 hundred percent emission. 
Immediately after getting your kind confirmation to this request. they shall immediately send the confirmation of funds from a prime bank in Paris and request your bank officers to come and receive the proof of money and proving of the petro-dollars beyond doubt to you. 
In the circumstances. your excellency, I shall be grateful if you will please let me have a simple confirmation that you would be prepared to accept the offer with full bank responsibility of tranch of 500 million US dollars at annually compounded rate of interest at 8.35 per cent and it is clearly understood that you will receive total capital of 500 million dollars tranch without deduction. 
Thanks and regards . . . Tirath Hassaram Khemlani. 
P.S. I sincerely hope that I have explained this very correctly and believe me your excellency that they are really interested in finishing this deal now and would only require this simple message as I have outlined in the last paragraph and thus there is no need to mention commission or emission at all. 
Thanks . . . 
Just in case I did not mention please note that the requested cnfirmation is required on this machine only and tomorrow the prime bank will immediately confirm the funds direct to  you or to the reserve bank of Australia. 
Howereveived.? + 
Message received. 
How many billions altogether + ? 
We shall do the whole lot and only in the beginning tomorrow they just want to make a start by confirming immediately 500 million and thereafter we shall do the rest immediately within the next 10 days. This is just to set the mechanics and prove to your the sincericity. Ove 
Gerry here you can call at  Mr Connor's  office we want to talk toyou + ? 
Thanks I shall do so now and in the meantime I shall appreciate if you can request the Ministe to have the message a simple sone prepared so that I can take it to my people in the morning early. 
Okay over + + 
BI 
MINMEAA62680 
DALSONCOM LDN 
OM 
DALSONCOM LDN 
MINMEAA62680 
To MrT.H. Khemlani 
Unable obtain telex number Oman Embassy London and forwarded following message to  Dr Aboudi  Kosta. c/Embassy of Oman, Beirut on Saturday. 
Would greatly appreciate your informing  His Excellency  Sheik Ghassan Chaker that on Friday 7 February I forwarded telex message to be conveyed to him confidentially to the Bank of Lebanon and D'Outre-Mer giving full text response to Moscow Narodny Bank London.  Mr T.  H. Khemlani also has a personal letter for delivery to his excellency conveying my thanks. Your co-operation would be sincerely appreciated as 1 am uncertain present address of  His  Excellency.' 
Received reply per Gerry Karidis Saturday night I just received your telex through the Embassy. Please make I. A.O.R.E. clear and send it through our telex number Lebanon 21510 (SOGEX Beirut) and I will be in London Monday night. 
Today 10.45 am forwarded following message to  Dr Aboudi  Kosta, Beirut. 
Received response my telex to you through  Mr Karidis  unable understand your request "Please make I.A.O.R.E. clear". Full text my response Moscow Narodny Bank London available Bank of Lebanon D'Outre-Mer Beirut. Response is very lengthy and also available in London from  Mr Khemlani  who should now have returned there from Australia.' 
Regards 
F. X. Connor 
Australian Minister for Minerals and Energy 
Over+ + 
JML 
10.2.75 
30 am 
DALSONCOM LDN 
MINMEAA62680 
For your co-operation. 
From The Honourable R. F. X. Connor 
Australian Minister for Minerals and Energy 
Parliament House 
Canberra 
Unquote 
Please let me know if you have any further requirements. Anticipate final confirmation of funds tonight as indicated. 
F. X. Connor 
Over+ + 
Thanks well received and 1 shall be in touch with you without fail as I have promised and shall complete the work without fail. 
Over 
Please note the reference code which is as received by me in telexes from overseas development bank on the 3rd and 4th April. I trust there will not be any difficulties as I have in other responses quotedXX 
AE + AG/420DSCLL . . . 
Isthatcorectorshlditbe . . . 420/DSELL + ? 
The first is correct that is AE + AG/320DSCLL. I shall take a care of this and there will beno difficulties over this and my early converstion with the VIP has been very encouraging and he even assured me that he appreciates this on the pan of minister and it shall be quite alright and they will not delay at all and shall finish the operation today and shall give you timing etc when I reach Frankfurst at 14 30 + over+ 
Thank you very much over and bibi for now + + 
JML 
16.4.75 
1.12 p.m. 
DALSONCOM LDN 
MINME AA62680 
DALSONCOM LDN 
MINME AA62680 
To MrT.H. Khemlani 
Have just completed transmission of the undermentioned message to the Overseas Development Bank, Geneva for the attention of Messrs Angeloni and Ferrier 
Quote 
To Overseas Development Bank, Geneva 
Attention: Messrs P. H. Angeloni and J. M. Ferrier 
Reference Code: AE + AG/420/DSELL/KHEM/ 30011975 
Following on my telephone conversation of today with  Mr T.  H. Khemlani, and referring to documentation in your possession, and in particular my telex of 28 February 1975 to S FNB please note the following alterations thereto relative to my participation in this transaction. 
Clause ( 1 ): After the words "The Australian Government" in line one delete the word "Wishes" and insert in lieu thereof the words "Is Ready". 
Clause (3): Delete completely, and in lieu thereof substitute the following clause- 
Our agreement in paragraph (2) abovementioned is, of course, given on the understanding that it does not in any way whatsoever commit the Australian Government to any costs fees or other liabilities and it is further understood that your bank in acting as a trustee bank, in the event of its receiving from the lenders bany monies in excess of the principal loan sum will disburse such excess to cover retrocession fees and operational charges and other expenses or commissions and will be in a position to transfer to the Australian Government the total amount of four billion United States dollars. 
Would you please advise lending bank accordingly. Thank you. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
