I direct my question, which is in 2 parts, to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Firstly, has any consideration been given by the Minister or by senior officers of  his Department to the establishment in Melbourne of a regional office of the Small Business Bureau similar to that established in Sydney in April of last year? Secondly, has any consideration been given by the Minister or by senior officers of his Department to the movement of all of the Small Business Bureau to Sydney and Melbourne where it would be of more practical value in advising and communicating with the small businessman? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and concerns the Army Reserve. Since the implementation of certain of the recommendations of the Millar report, some organisational improvements have been carried out in the Army Reserve. However, is the Minister aware that considerable uncertainty still exists within the Army Reserve as to its future role? Will the Minister fully define the role of the Army Reserve and ensure that the Reserve knows what this role is? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has investigated the allegation by the Leader of the Opposition that views expressed by the Governor-General in a speech to the Indian Law Institute were withheld from the Australian High Commissioner in Delhi and from Departments and Ministers in Canberra? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, please accept my sincere congratulations on your elevation to the office you now hold. Would you convey my congratulations and those of the electors of Henty to  Mr Speaker  on his elevation to his high office. I can assure this House that the  Speaker  is held in high regard in my electorate of Henty which is a near neighbour of his electorate of Bruce. It is with great pride and humility that I stand here tonight to represent the people of Henty. Henty is a long established seat of this Parliament, having been created by the redistribution of 1912. In taking my place as the member for Henty I am conscious that I am treading in the footsteps of some very remarkable men who previously represented the seat. It is not possible to mention all of them, but I would like to say something about a few of the more outstanding men who have represented Henty. 

 Sir Henry Gullett, K.C.M.G., held the seat from 1925 until August 1940, when he met an untimely death in the aircraft crash at Canberra that killed 3 Cabinet Ministers and many other people.  His  sudden death robbed Australia of one of the most brilliant and popular politicians of the 1920s and 1930s.  Sir Henry  Gullett 's son, Joe Gullett, holder of the Military Cross, later represented Henty from 1946 to 1955 and proved to be one of the most colourful and entertaining members of this House at that time. He was Government Whip from 1950 to 1955 and later served as Australian Ambassador to Greece. 
For 20 years, from 1955 onwards, Henty was represented by Max Fox, C.B.E. Max Fox, in addition to being the Government Whip for many years, was undoubtedly one of the best local members Henty has had. Max Fox will be long remembered in Henty for the help and kindness he extended to literally thousands of Henty constituents during his 20 years as the member. 
The electorate of Henty is located in the southeastern suburbs of Melbourne, about 10 miles from the centre of the city. It is largely a very pleasant residential area and contains substantial elements of light manufacturing industry. These are located mainly in the south-east corner of the electorate, in the suburbs of Oakleigh, South Oakleigh, Huntingdale and North Bentleigh. Most of this light industry is made up of many small businesses. It will be the situation of these small manufacturing businesses that will occupy much of my attention tonight, along with that of small businesses in other sectors such us retailing and service industries. 
Before coming to that, I feel that I should comment briefly on the local result of the recent State election in Victoria. As is now well known, the Victorian Premier, the  Hon.  Dick Hamer, and his excellent team achieved the massacre of the Australian Labor Party which is customary in Victoria. The Liberal Party members and candidates for all State seats within the Henty electorate had magnificent wins in the elections for both the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council. I warmly congratulate them all. I particularly congratulate my long-standing friend, the member for Oakleigh and Victorian Minister for Health, the  Hon.  Alan Scanlan, on successfully withstanding the main brunt of the attack against the Victorian Liberal Government. In the seat of Oakleigh, as in all the other State seats in Henty, the Labor Party was defeated yet again. 
I also especially congratulate on his decisive victory my friend, the member for Glenhuntly and Victorian Minister of Labor, the  Hon.  Joe Rafferty, who has honoured this House with his presence tonight. I extend my congratulations also to the member for Malvern and Victorian  Deputy  Premier, the  Hon.  Lindsay Thompson, and the member for Bentleigh, Bob Suggett  As honourable gentlemen in this House can observe, we have so many State Ministers within the Henty electorate that we are seriously thinking of setting up our own government. Tonight at dinner  Mr Rafferty  informed me that, of the 8 1 seats in the Victorian Legislative Assembly, 49 have been won by the Liberal Party, 22 by the Labor Party, 7 by the National Party and one by an Independent, and 2 seats are still in doubt. I interpret this devastating victory for the Liberal Party in Victoria as not only an endorsement of the policies of  Mr Hamer  but also a telling confirmation of the high confidence in our own Prime Minister. The Labor Party can take little joy from this result. In fact, the Labor Party in Henty and in Victoria at large is steadily moving to the situation of the Tasmanian Tiger or Loch Ness monster: It is much talked about, but as the years go by it is sighted less and less. 
I return now to the matter I briefly introduced earlier in my speech. I refer to the situation of small business in Australia today. As I have stated, my electorate of Henty has numerous small businesses engaged in' manufacturing, retailing and service industries. Those in the manufacturing area relate mainly to the production of clothing items, plastics, furniture and similar commodities. The presence of so many small businesses in Henty has enabled me to observe their problems at first hand and to gain a practical understanding of the significance of small business to the Australian economy. This understanding was further developed by the 2 years I spent as an economist with the Industries Assistance Commission. Much of my time with the Commission was spent in examining the problems of small business in various industries and in talking to the small businessmen who work in these industries. 
These experiences have left me in no doubt as to the importance of small business to this country. Small business is also an expression of the essence of Liberal Party philosophy. It is the heart of a competitive and efficient free enterprise system. It is an integral part of our encouragement to each individual to develop his own talents to the fullest possible extent. It was these factors that caused the coalition Parties to place so much emphasis on the revival of small business during the Federal election campaign in November and December 1975. 
Certain honourable gentlemen opposite, of course, would not share these views; nor, more significantly, would many of their colleagues in the industrial movement. The reason is simple. The small business firm, with its usually close relationship between management and labour, is a major obstacle to the growth of monopoly unionism. Furthermore, small or medium-size businesses have proved the most amenable to the successful experiments so far carried out with worker participation schemes. In Victoria Fletcher Jones and Staff Pty Ltd has been one of the more pre-eminent successes in this regard. Worker participation renders socialist economic theories even more redundant than they are now. 
What attraction will socialist policies or grandiose proposals and back-door nationalisation hold for employees when they own part of the equity in their own firm and share in its profits? I suggest they will hold no attraction at all. Socialism in consequence has a bleak future. 
It is appropriate at this point also to mention the precise contribution small business makes to the economic life of Australia. If we accept the definition of Professor Meredith of the University of New England that small business enterprises are those with fewer than 100 employees or in some areas of manufacturing up to 150 employees and which have their decisions made by only one or two owner-managers, 42 per cent of the total work force are employed in small business enterprises. In addition, 93 per cent of all factories in Australia may be classified as small business. The contribution of small business to production is also highly significant. It is estimated that in the manufacturing sector alone small establishments account for about 35 per cent of the value added. 
Having established the significance small business has for this country, it is important now to consider the major problems small businesses currently face. Of course the previous Labor administration did all it could to remove the problem of small business. It helpfully endeavoured, during its 3-year period in office to stop small businessmen worrying about the problems of small business. This was achieved by the simple expedient of putting about 6000 small businesses into bankruptcy. Thousands more were forced into voluntary liquidation. No one will ever know exactly how many. This approach can best be described in these words: 'How I learned to stop worrying about business and love the Labor Party'. 
However, on a more serious level, the thousands of small business failures highlight one of the major problems of small business. That critical problem is a weakness of small businesses in difficult economic times because of their low capital reserves and their limited access to capital loans. For this reason the Victorian Liberal Government is to be commended for its recent policy intention to establish a small business corporation. This corporation will arrange government guarantees to lending institutions making loans to small businesses for approved purposes. It is to be hoped that other State governments take up this excellent proposition. 
The second major problem confronting small business is the excessive burden of the present rate of company tax of 42  Vi  per cent. Several provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act also tend to act as a major disincentive to small business. Consideration should therefore be given to applying a sliding scale of taxation to small businesses. This could possibly start at 20 per cent for very small businesses and be progressively increased. We apply this principle to the income tax of individuals. I see no reason why it should not be applied to businesses also. 
Other incentives include the decision of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to reduce the lower limit of eligibility for the investment allowance which is welcomed. The House will recall that the lower limit was reduced from $1,000 to a shaded in scale between $500 and $1,000. However, other taxation incentives could usefully be looked at when we return to a more favourable economic situation. High on the list of priorities in this regard will be the policy commitment of this Government to examine the retention of profits section, section 105B of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Consideration will also be given to lowering significantly the present mandatory distribution of 50 per cent of private company profit after taxation. This would allow reserves to be put aside for the replacement of plant and equipment and other purposes, as is already the case with public companies. 
Another major problem confronting small businessmen is their need for expert advice in management techniques, particularly in the marketing and accounting aspects. Much of this need stems from the fact that many small businessmen are former tradesmen who have received no training in these areas- unlike, say, the executives of a larger corporation. The effect of these deficiencies is markedly evident. A survey of 2000 small business failures taken across Australia by the University of New South Wales gave the following alarming statistics: No less than 43 per cent failed through poor financial records alone; another 27 per cent failed because of inexperience in making management decisions. 
The National Small Business Bureau which was set up by the previous Labor administration in 1975 is therefore to be commended as it was a step in the right direction to providing a necessary advice service to small businessmen. So the previous Government did do something right. The recent assurances given to me during question time by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  that the regional office facilities of the Bureau in the State capitals will be extended is also most welcome. Nevertheless, we must ensure that the activities of the 
Commonwealth and the States in this sphere do not duplicate each other. There has been quite enough of that during the past 3 years. 
The final issue that needs to be raised is the general question of governments being sensitive to the needs and aspirations of small businessmen. To this end the recent decisions of the Government to include small business representation on the economic consultative group and the committee reviewing the Restictive Trade Practices Act are eminently sensible and reasonable. Let it be urged that the practice be carried over to other appropriate bodies. 
I trust that I have made the significance and the problems of small business more realistically apparent to the honourable gentlemen of this House. Small business has made a tremendous contribution to our economy in the past. With proper attention it can continue to provide much of the ingenuity, drive and flexibility so necessary to our sustained economic growth. In conclusion, I thank the House for the courtesies extended to me on this occasion. I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  in support of the Governor-General 's Speech. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, by assuring the House that I have no vested interest in its outcome. Will the Minister inform the House whether any consideration has been given to the implementation of a single fathers benefit? 
It is with great pleasure that I rise to support this Bill. For some time I have taken a great interest in the general field of transport economics. So this Bill is an area of particularly great interest to me. I represent the metropolitan electorate of Henty and the subject of roads and road transportation is to the people of the electorate a very important and significant subject. 
-Henty is ' Child-less ' now; that is right. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has already indicated, the Bill is in fact very similar to the one which was allowed to lapse last November immediately prior to the double dissolution. The main purpose of the Bill, as has been stated, is to provide an additional $64m in Commonwealth funds for road works. This has been found necessary to offset the effects of inflation over the last year, particularly as it has affected funds allocated under the National 
Roads Act 1974 and the Road Grants Act 1974. The Bill in fact increases the existing appropriation for 1975-76 by 17.8 per cent. I particularly welcome the amount of $ 13.3m which has been allocated in this Bill in Victoria. I also welcome the substantial allocations that have been made to other States which also are faced with the problem of maintaining very extensive road systems. I refer particularly to New South Wales, which has been allocated $ 19.9m under this Bill, Queensland, which has been allocated $ 13.2m, South Australia, which has been allocated $5. 8m, and Western Australia, which has been allocated $8.8m. The Bill, I think, recognises the importance that this Government attaches to maintaining a proper national roads system. I would point out that this is being done at a time when it is being found necessary to cut back expenditure in many other areas. The Government has had to take this action as a result of the record of the previous Labor Administration which managed to leave this Government with the unenviable burden of somehow overcoming a deficit of $4, 700m. 
In fact, the previous Government probably has been the only Government in Australia's history which has behaved as if there were a Government money tree. From time to time, that Government would think up some bright idea, rush around to the back of the Government Mint and try to pick off a few ripe new dollar notes to pay for that idea. More recently, we have seen members of that former Government dash across to the Arabs to see whether they can find 30 pieces of silver in the sand dunes. This Government and the country as a whole are paying for the 3-year binge of extravagant spending on which the previous Government has taken us. 
Nevertheless, as I said, because of the importance that this Government attaches to an adequate roads program, ways have been found not to reduce expenditure in this financial year in the manner that it has been found necessary to reduce expenditure in many other areas. I think this has been done for a number of reasons, all of which indicate the considerable importance which an adequate roads system will always have to a country such as Australia. One of the major reasons for maintaining road expenditure at its present level and in fact not subjecting it to the cuts which have been found necessary in other areas is that expenditure on roads is a very major part of the process which is necessary to create wealth through the construction of social overhead capital facilities. This is an integral and necessary part of the major task that we have ahead of us to achieve economic recovery. 
Direct incentives to the economy along the lines of the investment allowance and other Government initiatives are very important and necessary. But, in the longer term, we must look also to the wealth creating effects of maintaining an adequate roads system and an adequate rail system as it is along these systems that goods produced by industry move between major centres of population and, of course, within those major centres of population. We are in the same situation in this country as any other nation that has the problem of very vast distances to overcome. Honourable members will find that this same situation pertains in countries such as Canada, the United States of America, the Soviet Union, China and India. In fact, economic historians generally judge that one of the greatest single contributions that the British colonial administration ever made to India in terms of social overhead capital construction was the very excellent rail and road system that it left behind. 
I think that maintaining the present level of expenditure on roads and not subjecting that expenditure to cuts as are applied elsewhere is important for another reason, that expenditure on roads is very important for the movement of people in outer urban areas and in rural areas. In recent years, increasing attention has been attached to improving the general facilities of public transport, particularly rapid transit systems, such as rail systems, tramway systems and so on. We find that even such devices as monorail systems and other experiments along these lines, which have been carried out overseas, are discussed here also. These are all most admirable propositions but, unfortunately, the general work that has been done in this area and many of the improvements which have been carried out in it in recent times really apply to inner urban areas only. 
There is a very good reason for this. To establish the permanent way necessary for an adequate rail system, tram system or whatever other rapid transit system one is talking about, one does need a very heavy concentration of population moving along a permanent way from one concentrated point to another. This situation does not exist in an outer urban area or in a rural area. In the outer urban areas such as the outer suburbs of Melbourne or Sydney the population is too dispersed and the movement patterns which a population sets when it travels are too varied to allow the extensive establishment of rapid transit facilities. So for these reasons in the outer urban areas and in the rural areas, road transportation, in terms of both the movement of people and the movement of goods, will always be very significant because public transport can never be the most efficient method of transporting people in these areas, with the exception possibly of bus routes to a particular point. 
The final reason for maintaining the present level of road expenditure under this Bill is the very critical necessity of maintaining the present level of road repair and maintenance. Like other forms of expenditure in respect of repairs and maintenance in many other government areas it is possible to defer expenditure to a later time without incurring any real costs. For instance, it is often possible to defer the repainting of or repairs to Commonwealth buildings without seriously incurring additional costs in the future, except those which have been added by the effects of inflation. This is not the situation in respect of the repair and maintenance of roads, particularly a major urban road which is subject to very heavy traffic. Once that road starts to break up, unless you move in very quickly to undertake the necessary repairs and maintenance that road will deteriorate very, very rapidly. So any deferment of expenditure as far as the repair and maintenance of major roads is concerned, particularly major urban roads subject to heavy traffic, can be costly.  (Quorum formed)  Expenditure on the repair and maintenance that is found to be necessary to be carried out on major urban roads is not the type of expenditure that can be successfully deferred. The marginal cost which is incurred in deferring such expenditure is far greater than the marginal costs which will be incurred in deferring expenditure on repairs and maintenance in many other fields. For this reason I welcome the provisions of the Bill which relate to maintaining the level of road expenditure at the level which was decided on last year. 
The Bill, of course, has several other purposes. One is to allow easier administration and to facilitate the transfer of funds between various road categories and between various Acts. In this matter we are in agreement with honourable gentlemen opposite. There is no dispute about these provisions of the Bill, so I will not spend much time on them. The other major aspect of the Bill is those provisions which relate to the return of autonomy to the States in respect of local urban road programs. I congratulate the Minister on the stand that he has taken in this area. As we ascertained from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  this part of the Bill has caused great distress to the Opposition, but I must say at this stage that it does not cause great distress to me. We on the Government side see this as an integral part of the steps that we are taking to restore co-operative federalism. The previous Labor Government, particularly in the area of road administration and in the whole of the transport area, used this activity of government as part of the fulfilment of all its centralist ambitions of gradually concentrating all power in the Federal capital of Canberra. Had the previous Minister for Transport been able to carry all his ambitions in this regard to their fullest extent eventually we would have found ourselves in a situation where every proposal for a new zebra crossing would have been brought here to Canberra for approval. 
He came up with a number of other interesting proposals during the time he administered the portfolio of transport. He came up with the standard urban train, the standard urban bus and a number of other proposals, most of which were ridiculed by the State governments. I suggest that it would only have been a matter of time, had we allowed him to go on longer, before he would have come up with a standard urban nature strip and, if we had given him enough time, probably a standard urban garbage can into which we could have put all his proposals. We welcome the Bill as a very important part of the process by which we are returning real powers to the States. I support its provisions in their entirety. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. As the Minister is aware, last year when the Australian Heritage Commission Bill came before the House honourable members on both sides commended it. Can the Minister inform the House what is the Government's attitude to the staffing and operation of the Commission in view of the recent expenditure reductions? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Government received initial reports from its officials concerning expenditure estimates for 1976-77? Has it examined these reports? If not, when will it do so? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that in the Oakleigh and Glenhuntly areas of Melbourne delays in the installation of a telephone service from the date of application are well in excess of 10 weeks and that in some cases a wait of 6 months has been quoted to businesses. 
If so. will he investigate these long delays and the claims of Telecom that they are due to a manpower shortage. 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations clarify the current situation concerning secret ballots for union elections, in respect of which legislation was brought down in the last session of Parliament? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is a strike by the Plumbers and Gas Fitters Employees Union seriously disrupting the building industry? Can the Minister give details of this dispute? What is the present situation? 

 -Mr Chairman, it is with great pleasure that I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs, and in particular the bilateral aid estimates for Papua New Guinea. Having been fortunate enough to have served in the Papua New Guinea Administration for 2 years during the fascinating period immediately prior to self-government and independence, I can assure the Committee that our continuing assistance to Papua New Guinea undoubtedly is one of the most significant and useful aspects of our foreign aid program. Our expenditure for Papua New Guinea in 1976-77 will be more than $22 8m. That is more than $14m more than the amount spent in 1975-76. The most important single item of expenditure is now the direct grant in aid, which for this financial year is to be $190m. Our current aid to Papua New Guinea forms part of the commitment this Government made in March this year to provide $930m to Papua New Guinea over the 5 years commencing from 1976-77. This commitment ensures that the Government of Papua New Guinea will receive at least $180m in direct social and economic aid for each of the 5 financial years commencing from 1 July this year. Such a definite guarantee of a certain minimum level of assistance will be of enormous advantage to Papua New Guinea in planning its own Budgets and general financial arrangements. That is important to a new government finding its feet in an increasingly uncertain world. 
As the Committee will be aware, on 16 September this year Papua New Guinea celebrated its first birthday as an independent nation. It was just over a year ago that Australia voluntarily relinquished control over Papua New Guinea after 9 1 years of rule in Papua and some 6 1 years of rule in New Guinea. That period of Australian administration of Papua New Guinea is, by and large, a period that this country can look upon with reasonable satisfaction. That we made some mistakes in Papua New Guinea there is no doubt. Upon reflection, perhaps there were some things we might have handled rather differently. However, on balance, the record of Australian governments of all political persuasions and of the officers of our administration on the spot in Papua New Guinea is both competent and just. Our record is particularly commendable when compared with that of some other colonial powers. 
I think we have left Papua New Guinea with 3 notable legacies which our continuing aid should help to maintain. Firstly, we have handed over a well organised system of district administration. We commenced building that system from the time of our annexation of Papua in 1884 and our capture of New Guinea from the Germans in 1914. The difficult terrain of Papua New Guinea, coupled with its 600 or so tribal groupings, meant that a highly decentralised system of district administration was in fact the only viable means of running the country. It is a measure of the effectiveness of the administrative system which we left behind that the new Government of Papua New Guinea has seen fit to more or less leave it intact. Only the personnel have changed. Secondly, we have established a tradition of maintaining law and order through the civil courts and the civil police. Only during the Japanese occupation of part of Papua New Guinea during the Second World War did we temporarily place the people of Papua New Guinea under military authority. The present Prime Minister of New Guinea,  Mr Michael  Somare, has repeatedly made it clear that the supremacy of the civil over the military authority will be absolutely maintained in the keeping of law and order. Thirdly, we properly prepared Papua New Guinea for a workable system of parliamentary government. This dated from the election of the first House of Assembly in 1964, through various stages of increased local responsibility, until the final granting of independence in late 1975. 
This systematic approach compares markedly with the performance of some of the colonial powers, who let the local leadership out of gaol shortly before independence and then expected them to set up a parliamentary government and all it involves at 9 a.m. on the first day of independence. It is little wonder that in most cases such governments quickly gave way to military dictatorship, one party rule, or some other authoritarian system of government. Each of these 3 legacies I have mentioned of Australian rule- a sound administration, the maintenance of law and order through civil courts and the civil police, and a workable, democratic Parliament- will, with our continued support of Papua New Guinea, help guarantee her stability and that of the surrounding region until well into the future. What a future Papua New Guinea has ahead of her if her current performance is any guide. Effective economic policies implemented by  Mr Somare  's Government, including a firm policy of wage restraint agreed on with the trade unions, have cut the inflation rate in Papua New 
Guinea to 1.5 per cent in the last quarter. It is regrettable that some Australian trade unions have not shown the same common sense for their own long term good and that of the community. 
Papua New Guinea's main export productscopper, copra, coffee, cocoa and tea- continue to hold their position firmly in international markets. At the same time, the establishment of local light manufacturing industries continues steadily to expand. But overshadowing all these favourable developments is Papua New Guinea's immense potential for the development and export of her vast mineral wealth. Current exploration work by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Ok Tedi is but one of several projects that will eventually make Papua New Guinea one of the wealthiest nations in the South East Asian and the South West Pacific areas. It is worth noting that faith in Papua New Guinea's future is obviously shared by that nation's white population as the vast majority of the permanent residents of that section of the population have remained there since self-government and independence and seem to be content to remain for the years to come. 
Before concluding I would like to refer briefly to one other specific item in our aid estimates for Papua New Guinea. That item is the $5m allocated for construction work on the Port Moresby and Nadzab airports. That expenditure is indicative of the enormous importance of an efficient civil aviation network to Papua New Guinea, for without it the interior of Papua New Guinea would still be an unexplored and undeveloped wilderness. It is therefore commendable that our aid program has recognised the importance of the necessary support facilities for aviation in Papua New Guinea. 
I conclude by saying how appropriate it is that the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  still has as his responsibility Papua New Guinea affairs. During his time as Minister for External Territories and in the period since then he has been in large measure responsible for the excellent relations Australia now enjoys with independent Papua New Guinea. Our aid program to Papua New Guinea is a reflection of the continuing goodwill between our 2 nations, and without hesitation I warmly commend it to the House. 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that the present situation in Rhodesia is now in the process of being resolved, how soon may we expect a normalisation of foreign and trade relations between Australia and Rhodesia? Furthermore, as part of this normalisation, when will the right of Rhodesian passport holders to enter this country be restored? 
1 direct my question to the Treasurer. Though the importance of the recent monetary restrictions in further reducing inflation is recognised, can the Treasurer assure the House that the restrictions will not undermine the longer term recovery of the small business sector which has always had great difficulty in obtaining finance? In asking this question I remind the Treasurer that renewed entrepreneurial activity in the small business sector is essential to the recovery of our type of economy, particularly after the mauling small business received from the economic incompetents who sit opposite? 
I rise to speak in favour of the Insurance (Deposits) Amendment Bill. I am pleased to hear the Opposition has taken a similar stance. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932 to exempt companies authorised under the Insurance Act 1973 from the requirement to lodge a deposit with the Treasurer and to provide for the return of deposits in appropriate cases. Under the Insurance (Deposits) Act a company carrying on insurance business is required to lodge a deposit with the Treasurer. However, I understand that not every company that has been granted an authority under the Insurance Act has in fact lodged a deposit since subsidiary companies are exempt from the requirement if the parent company has already lodged a deposit. When the Insurance Act was passed it was envisaged that the deposit requirement under the Insurance (Deposits) Act would be terminated after the new system of supervision of insurers was fully effective. 
Legislative provision was therefore made for the return of all deposits during a 2-year period following the commencement of the authorisation provisions of the Insurance Act; that is from 1 August 1974 to 31 July 1976. I am informed that the Insurance Commissioner is making good progress in examining applications for authority from companies wishing to carry on insurance business under the Insurance Act. In excess of 50 per cent of applicant companies have been granted an authority. However, there are a significant number of companies which have either not applied for or could be refused an authority to carry on insurance business. Those companies will be required, subject to the transitional provisions of the Insurance Act, to terminate their insurance business in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner. I am informed that it may take many months, even years, before this process will be completed by the Insurance Commissioner. In the circumstances, the Government has extended the operation of the deposit system until 3 1 July 1979 in order to continue to protect policy owners of companies not granted an authority under the Insurance Act. However, I think it would be grossly unfair to retain deposits from those companies who have complied with the more stringent requirements of the Insurance Act. This Bill relieves those insurers of the obligation to lodge deposits, which can be up to $200,000 in individual cases. I therefore support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and concerns school leavers. I preface my question by pointing out that over the past 12 months unemployment in several States has declined or remained relatively static and that 95 per cent of last year's school leavers were successfully placed in employment. I now ask the Minister: What are the prospects for those leaving school this year? Is alarmist talk about those prospects nothing but claptrap? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What is the total cost of the Royal Commission on Petroleum and what are the specific costs for 
a ) Commissioner and staff 
Counsels' fees 
Internal travel 
Overseas travel 
Consultants' fees and 
Sundry expenses. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. On 23 September 1976 the Prime Minister announced in the Parliament:  the Government will be putting down a regulation which will enable the Industrial Registrar to require trade unions to notify the Registrar of their next forthcoming ballot Under these provisions there would be a continuing record held by the Industrial Registrar of ballots for all trade union elections and, therefore, anyone would be able to find out what ballots were to be held in the next few months. 
Can the Minister please advise the House of the present position with regard to such proposed regulations? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to an article in today's  Australian Financial Review  in which it is alleged that the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission has criticised statements contained in the Speech of  Her  Majesty at the opening of Parliament? Does the article correctly represent the Government's attitude on the matters referred to in the article? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations by saying that all Victorians will welcome today's settlement of the petrol dispute. Is the Minister concerned that the entire State has been held to ransom by just over 200 unionists? What implications does that have for the future conduct of this Government's industrial relations policy? 
-Has the Minister for Productivity seen a further report this morning calling for the appointment of workers' directors to companies in Australia? Does the Minister agree that this in fact indicates a very superficial understanding of what worker participation is all about and that in terms of benefits to employees and better productivity, such things as improved communications, job enrichment and financial participation are potentially of far greater value? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I preface it by pointing out that there is no doubt that all members of the House welcomed the establishment earlier this year of the task force to advise on finance for small business. Will the Minister inform the House with what degree of urgency the Government will consider and act upon the recommendations of the task force, as this vital matter is of major importance to the more than 40 per cent of the work force who are employed in small business. 
-The Minister for Productivity will no doubt be aware of a recent report to the Defence Minister detailing the grossly inadequate capability of Australian manufacturing industry for defence production. Can the Minister inform the House of what steps are being taken to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of manufacturing industry to overcome this inadequate capability, including measures taken in respect of the Government factories that form a significant part of the responsibilities of his portfolio? In particular, what is being done to better the operation of the Government Aircraft Factory to improve the way in which its products are marketed, and to achieve the best possible use of the Government Aircraft Factory within the context of a rationalisation of the aircraft industry? 
I wish to make it quite clear at the outset, on behalf of the Government Members Small Business Committee, and I think on behalf of nearly all members of the Government parties, that we welcome the statement made today because undoubtedly it is the most definitive statement made on small business in the history of this Federation. It very clearly illustrates the importance that this Liberal-National Country Party Government attaches to the small business sector. I might add that it is also a triumph for the Small Business Committee and all the others who have worked tirelessly for the cause of small business over the past few years. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  clearly indicated in his statement, this sector of our economy is a fundamental and very important one. It covers no fewer than about two million people, or approximately one-third of the work force of this nation. Quite apart from its economic importance- it is obviously important as far as employment is concerned- there is a very significant social importance attaching to the small business sector. It is that social importance which actually gives the he to the hypocritical nonsense we have heard from the Opposition in the last 15 minutes. 
If what has happened in the United Kingdom in recent years is any indication, it is quite clear that the Labor Party and socialist parties generally throughout the Western world- do not give a damn about small business. In fact, the long term intention of the socialist parties is eventually to drive it to the wall and put it out of action, for very good reasons related to their long term objective of the socialisation of society. What we have seen in the United Kingdom since the end of the Second World War is an increasing concentration of power in the hands of larger economic enterprises, including nationalised enterprises. They have been nationalised through the back door as well as through the front door. Those larger economic enterprises have found themselves to be much more vulnerable to control both by the central government and by British trade unions. 
Paul Johnson, previously editor of the British Labour weekly, the  New Statesman,  laid out very clearly his own dissatisfaction with the British Labour Party for these reasons and also indicated quite clearly the ultimate intention of the British Labour Party in regard to small business. I want to quote from an article which he wrote recently and which appeared in the  New Statesman.  It was reprinted m the  Bulletin.  This article indicated very clearly why he left the Labour Party and what these ultimate intentions are. He wrote: . . . it is the essence of corporation that the units must be large. And it is of the essence of modern union bureaucracy that workers are easier to control in big factories, where the organised militant clique rules all. So Labour Ministers and union bosses are united in their up-ending of Labour's old posture. 
Both loathe the small business and the little workshop and penalise them viciously; both exhibit a positive hatred for the self-employed, who cannot be unionised or corporatised at all. 
This is where the Labour Party is heading. It has already embraced corporatism, which ultimately must mean the end of Parliamentary democracy . . . 
That is the attitude of the Labor Party to small business. That is the real attitude of the Labor Party, not the hypocritical attitude which the Opposition has been laying out for the last IS minutes. It shows quite clearly where the Opposition stands so far as small business is concerned. 
The main thrust of the statement put down today by the Treasurer in this House, and by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in the other place, relates to the problem of small business finance. It has become quite clear to this Government, particularly through the work of the Small Business Committee, that this is one of the major problems that small business has been facing over the last few years- access to finance for both development capital purposes and working capital purposes. This was summed up very clearly in a paper that the Small Business Committee prepared earlier this year. I quote this extract from that paper 
It should be recognised that the basic difficulty with small business being able to find adequate finance stems from its inability to conserve capital from earnings. This is caused by the impact of increasing taxation, lower profits resulting from rapid cost escalation and the problems of financing stock levels and new equipment purchases from inflation retained earnings. Its problem is therefore chiefly in finding long term funds from either loans or equity capital for long term purposes. Because of its relative lack of access to money markets compared with larger businesses, small business is very largely restricted to overdraft or other high cost finance company money. 
That is the essence of the finance problem that small business has faced in recent years. It was for that very reason that the task force was set up by this Government, back in May, to look at this problem. The statement issued today by the Treasurer and by the Minister for Industry and Commerce is the result of the work of that task force. I commend the excellent work that it did in putting its report together and coming up with the conclusions which it reached and which have now, as we have seen today, been courageously adopted by the Government. 
The main thrust of the work of the task force, in terms of the things that have been adopted today, can be seen m a number of intitiative. Firstly, and most importantly, the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank, is widened so that it is in a position to make credit available to all forms of business, not just to the rural sector or the industrial sector. The Commonwealth Development Bank will be able to provide equity finance to small business. The Small Business Committee regards this as a very valuable and imaginative reform because the Commonwealth Development Bank is in an excellent position to carry out this form of service. I say that for two reasons: Firstly, the Commonwealth Development Bank already has a network of branches and agencies by means of which this new service can be delivered to the small business sector. Secondly, and related to that, the Commonwealth Development Bank has an excellent record of experience in dealing with this sort of problem in the related areas of rural finance and, more latterly, industrial finance. There is no doubt that the excellent experience that the Commonwealth Development Bank has gained in those areas will now be used in a more general sense in the field of small business. 
Another major initiative that today's statement brings down is that there will be a facility, through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, for joint venture arrangements to be set up between the AIDC and other appropriate bodies. We have in mind bodies such as the various State small business agencies which have been set up in recent years, including the excellent one in Victoria that is run by  Mr Eugene  Falk - the Victorian Small Business Development Corporation. It has established for itself an excellent reputation in the very short time that it has been going. There are various private bodies with which this joint finance arrangement will be able to operate. The third initiative the statement indicates- it is just as important as the other two matters I have mentioned- is that advice is now been given to the Reserve Bank that adequate finance is to be made available to small business through the banking system and that no arbitrary limits are to be placed on that finance. I have no doubt that these three major initiativesthe widening of the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank, the new joint venture arrangements and the advice now given to the Reserve Bank not to impose arbitrary limitswill be welcomed by small business and by small business associations throughout Australia. 
It is interesting to note that today's statement shows quite clearly that this Government has been consistent in the way it has abided by the promises it made during the federal election campaign of November and December 1975. During that campaign the coalition parties brought down a five-point program. I shall go through those points to refresh the memory of honourable members opposite who seem to have forgotten what was in the program and the extent to which we have abided by it. The first point was the bringing down of a 40 per cent investment allowance. That has been done. The second point in that program was the bringing in of trading stock valuation adjustment. As we know, that has been of tremendous benefit, particularly to those holding large stocks such as small retailers. That has been done. The third point related to a number of taxation reforms including the increase in the retention allowance under division 7. That has been carried out. It has been welcomed by small businessmen. 
I also bring to the attention of the House the fact that the personal tax indexation and also more recently the standard rate taxation which were brought down are aimed at the community at large but they also specifically benefit small business. They are of help to the small businessmen who are not incorporated as companies. 
That is something that always has to be remembered when we are talking about the vast majority of very small businessmen, particularly those in the retailing and wholesaling areas who are usually sole traders or partnerships. They are not companies. 
Our general taxation reforms flow through to small businessmen as much as they flow through to the community at large. That seems to have been conveniently forgotten by the honourable gentlemen sitting opposite. The fourth point of our five-point program related to the problem of access to finance for small business. That is what today's statement is all about. It provides for the carrying out of that fourth point of our program. The fifth and remaining point was to do what we could to improve the counselling and education services available to assist small businessmen by advising them of management techniques. That is well in hand through the publications which have been made available and through a number of other matters in that area which we are considering at the moment. On the basis of that five-point program honourable members can see that four points have already been carried out. The fourth point is being implemented today. Matters relating to the fifth point are still under consideration. That is not a bad record. In a matter of only two years we have virtually completed the entire program. That was the promise which we made to small business during the November-December campaign which led up to the last general election. 
The Opposition in commenting on this statement made a number of statements, some of which, to say the least, were quite extraordinary. One of those statements referred to my colleague  Senator Messner  and concerned the burden which government surveys and data collection placed on small business. What  Senator Messner  was saying is quite true. In fact, one of the major problems which small business faces today is the increasing administrative burden which government is imposing on it, often by default and often in an unthinking manner, because small business is increasingly being used as an unpaid agency to collect data. When the honourable gentlemen sitting opposite were in government they did more to increase the general administrative burden through various regulatory agencies on small business than did any other government in the history of federation. What this statement set out quite clearly is not what was suggested incorrectly by honourable members on the other side, an attempt to increase the administrative burden on small business, but an attempt to decrease it by rationalising and co-ordinating the way in which data is collected from business, including small business. At the moment there is a great amount of overlapping and duplication between government agencies which are responsible for collecting data from small business. 
The second, almost hilarious, point made by the Opposition in relation to today's statement was about the National Small Business Bureau. Of course, we know the Opposition has an attitude to these things. Its general attitude is: If it stands still tax it; if it moves, set up a department to run it. The reaction of the Opposition to any problem which it faced while in government was always to try to overcome that problem by setting up a network of administrative agencies. They thought that simply by providing more public servants, more structure, more paper and all the rest of it they would overcome the problems. That was true whether it was Aboriginal affairs, social security, small business or whatever. But that is not the way out of the situation. The way out, in fact, is to get the Government off the backs of small business, to take off the taxation burden and to take off the administrative burden. Certainly we need a minimum administrative component to run certain things, to do research, to put out publications and so on. But more public servants and more agencies is not the way to resolve the problem of small business. 
Small businessmen, in their dealing with this Government through the Small Business Committee, have made that abundantly clear over the last couple of years. They are not looking for handouts. They are not looking for feather bedding. They are not looking for more government departments. They are looking for relief from the various burdens which have been imposed on them through taxation and through government administration over recent years. In conclusion I say that I welcome this statement. I am sure it will be welcomed throughout the nation. This is one of the most valuable initiatives taken by any government in relation to small business. In fact, it is the only clear statement any government has ever made about small business in the history of this nation. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer who will be well aware that the State Electricity Commission strike in Victoria has substantially disrupted the normal cash now of many Victorian small businesses, particularly small manufacturing businesses, and the effects of this will be felt throughout the remainder of this financial year. In view of the precarious financial situation this disruption has placed a large number of small businesses in, will the Treasurer consider advising the Commonwealth Taxation Office to allow reasonable deferments for the monthly payment of sales tax and, if it becomes necessary, also reasonable deferments for the payment of provisional tax? Furthermore, will the Treasurer consider advising the banking system through the Reserve Bank of Australia that, where appropriate, reasonable latitude be exercised in the administration of overdrafts and other short term finance? 
-It is with great pleasure that I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Defence. I would also like to congratulate the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  on an excellent speech outlining the broad strategic problems in defence which face us over the next few years. I would like to turn my attention to the Army Reserve to which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  alluded in the latter part of his address. I would particularly like to stress the role that the Reserve plays at the moment, has played in the past and is likely to play in the future. The citizen soldier has a very long and distinguished history in this country, going back over some 100 years to 1860-64 when this country for the first time sent volunteers overseas, to fight in the Maori Wars in New Zealand. That record of service continued throughout the Sudan and Boer Wars, the two World Wars and a number of minor conflicts following the Second World War, right up until the recent conflict in Vietnam when a number of individual Reserve officers and noncommissioned officers served in the forces in Vietnam, including one of the members of this House, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who served in Vietnam as a Citizen Military Forces officer. I believe that he will be following me later in this debate. 
He is an officer and a very fine gentleman too, I might add. The honourable member for Wills alluded to the fact that one of the things that is often said about this country is that we have a small population. He stated in response that it is really not as small as it is often made out to be and that in fact we can mobilise a much larger force than is often contended. There is some truth in that, but at the same time it has to be kept in perspective. We have a population of only 14 million people. Even though it is not a minute population it is still only a medium sized population. On that basis we can only hope to maintain at any time a relatively limited standing Army. Because this population limitation means that we cannot maintain a very large regular force of either the Navy, the Army or the Air Force, obviously in our particular circumstance, as in countries such as Canada, the Reserve Forces are of great importance. 
The Reserve Forces are also significant from another point of view. In a liberal democracy such as ours- this is often overlooked- having a large and viable Reserve Force working in cooperation with the Regular Forces establishes an essential link, which is important in any democracy, between the Regular Forces and the Reserve Forces. Both have a lot to gain from that link and that co-operation. The Reserves have to gain from the Regulars knowledge in the way of expertise that the Regulars have built up over a period of time. At the same time, because of the more open situation that operates in the community, the Reserve is capable of passing on many new ideas from the community and also of providing many professional services that may exist in the community but which are not available often in the Regular services themselves. The significance of the Reserve and the importance of a link between the Reserve Forces and the Regular Forces were very clearly laid out in the report of the Millar Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces in 1974. Let me quote from one section of the report which clearly underlines what I have been saying. On page 129 of the report the Committee stated: 
That a Reserve of partly-trained army units and personnel is an essential component of the defence of Australia. 
That such a Reserve is only possible and effectual if the Government of the day, the community, the Regular Army and the Reserve believe it has a role which gives it present significance, which provides for effective action in the future, and which it is known the Government will implement if necessary. 
That any Reserve component must be prepared for total integration with the rest of the Army in the event of call-up for full-time duty, and that in peace both Regular and Reserve components should be treated and act as part of a single force. 
That the Reserve should be divided into operational units, logistic units and a training organisation, geared to provide both an effective operational force at short notice and also the basis for expansion over a longer term. 
That there should be an appropriate professional relationship between the designation and the size of Reserve organisations, and between rank and responsibility within them. 
I think that the Millar report indicates very clearly the importance of the Reserve but at the same time it has to be recognised that the role of the Reserve has changed. In its report the Committee also alluded to that. It said: 
But the world has changed in the nearly 30 years since the end of World War II, and the needs of defence have changed. Like so many other affairs in which we used to be amateurs- diplomacy, trade, some kinds of manufacturing, opera, tennis- we have had to become professionals, and we have developed a profession of arms. The place of the citizen soldier in the total context of this profession is different from what it was in the past, but it is still essential and honourable. 
As a result of recognising the fact that the Reserve had a different role to play in the sort of society and the sort of defence circumstances we have today, the Committee recommended a number of changes and made a number of recommendations to upgrade the organisation, administration and operating efficiency of the Reserve. It made some 29 recommendations. I am pleased to say that, due to the energy and dedication of the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  virtually all of those 29 recommendations made by the Millar Committee back in 1974 have either been implemented or are well on the way to being implemented. I think that it speaks highly of the way in which the present Minister for Defence has been performing his job in that portfolio that so much has been achieved in that period of time. It is a very commendable achievement. In that context one also has to recognise the important role played by the Government members foreign affairs and defence committee. 
An excellent committee, of which the honourable member for St George is the secretary. 
That is right. As I have said, most of those recommendations are on the way to being implemented, and the Minister is to be commended for that. In addition, I commend the initiative he has shown recently in setting up a new scheme to encourage employers to enlist their employees in the Reserve. He has established a committee to help to implement that program. The honourable member for Wills in speaking in this debate mentioned that there have been problems in recruitment for the Reserve- not so much recently in recruitment for the Regular Forces but there have been distinct problems in recruitment for the Reserve. It is to be hoped that the new initiative of the Minister to boost recruitment will bear fruit. I am sure that it will and I am sure that it will overcome some of the problems presently facing the Reserve. A lot of the steps that have been taken over the last couple of years have done a lot to boost the morale of the Reserve and it is now in a much better situation than it was a couple of years ago. However, a couple of areas still need to be looked at closely and acted on. For the sake of the Reserve and for the sake of the people in it, there has to be a very clear and detailed definition of the role of the Reserve because at the moment the only definition we have of the role of the Reserve is as follows: 
The purpose of the Army Reserve, as pan of the Australian Army, is to participate in the defence of Australia and its interests in times of war and defence emergency. 
The Reserve with the Regular Army is to provide the basis for expansion of the Austraiian Army. 
They are commendable words but they are very vague and rather general. For instance, one could well ask what the term 'expansion' means. Does it mean providing a nucleus of officers to be expanded in war time; or a nucleus of NCOs? Does it mean providing a nucleus of specialists or a nucleus of formed units which can be expanded in war time? I think that if we are to make further fains in the effective use of the Reserve, that area as to be much more clearly defined. The second area that must be defined more clearly is the way in which the five-year defence program will benefit the Reserve, particularly in those areas where the Reserve traditionally has been short of effective equipment such as the heavy equipment, artillery and armour areas. The extent to which that five-year defence program will benefit the Reserve specifically is not too clear at this stage. I am quite sure that once we have those two initiatives- a clear, precise and detailed statement of the role of the Reserve in the future and also a statement as to the way in which the five-year defence program will flow through the Reserve in the way of equipmentthe Reserve will be able to go on to further strengths and continue to play an integral part in the defence of this nation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (MrDrummond) -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I must say that I have listened with great interest to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  because the general standard of what they have been putting forward this afternoon has been at about the same level as the sorts of announcements that the Opposition has been making on economic POliCY during the last few days. Those announcements have been related basically either to personal abuse or to ideas and concepts which failed some considerable time ago in Western Europe. I do not intend to go over the ground covered by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who, I think, laid out very clearly this afternoon the fact that the bulk of the unemployment which is afflicting this country today was in fact created during the time honourable gentlemen opposite were in government. 
I think one could say at the same time that the general correctness of the economic policies that have been followed over the last two years has been clearly vindicated by the announcements that have been made over the last two months in relation to economic indicators. I refer, obviously, to our latest success as far as the consumer price index is concerned. The average annual rate of inflation in this country is now running at about 10 per cent, compared with some 17 per cent about two years ago. During the past two years, particularly the last year, we have seen a considerable increase in the level of company profits. A number of other economic indicators also show quite clearly that the economy is moving firmly to a state of recovery and prosperity. 
Before discussing in more detail some of the policies which we have brought down during the last two years to deal with the general problem of unemployment and related issues, I would like to comment in specific terms on some of the things that members of the Opposition have said this afternoon and in the last few days about economic pOliCY and unemployment. The message that comes through quite clearly is, as the actress said to the bishop: Let's do it again. It is the same old stuff over and over again. It is nothing new. Like the Bourbons, members of the Opposition have forgotten nothing and they have learned nothing. That came through quite clearly at the Labor Party 's National Conference held in Perth earlier this year, when no new initiatives were produced. It was simply the same old material being brought out again 
In that regard I was interested to hear the discussion that emanated from the other side of the this House about the proposed Department of Economic Development. This concept in fact was tried in the United Kingdom 10 or IS years ago, when a Department of Economic Affairs was established. It failed dismally there. I have not the slightest doubt that it would fail here, for the simple reason that in setting up the Department of Economic Affairs the British Government created a body which had power over everything but responsibility for nothing. In the end it achieved nothing, except a larger Public Service salary bill. The suggested Department is fairly indicative of the level of imagination and initiative of members on the other side of the House at the moment as far as economic policy and the related question of unemployment are concerned. 
It is worth referring to some of the schemes which the Labor Party introduced when it was in government in an attempt to solve the unemployment problem. I remind the House that the Labor Party was largely responsible for creating the unemployment problem. At one stage we had a scheme, which the Labor Party eventually deleted, called the Regional Employment Development scheme. The examples of abuse and waste of money under that scheme were manifold. There was a classic case of one municipal council in Perth which was given a grant under the RED scheme. That grant was used for digging a trench from one end of the municipality to the other, supposedly for drainage purposes. It was so poorly planned that as fast as it was dug it started to fill again. I could instance some examples of the way RED scheme grants were used in my electorate. Basically, they degenerated into what could be called grasscutting exercises. Extra money was give to councils. Instead of grass being cut once a fortnight, it was cut two or three times a week. This is a clear indication that the sorts of schemes which the Labor Party introduced in an attempt to solve unemployment were dismal failures. 
A similar thing happened with the National Employment and Training scheme. Although it started out with the best intentions to retrain people who were out of work, particularly to train semi-skilled and unskilled people for trade positions, over a period of time it degenerated into another lurk for the academics. It became another tertiary training scheme. I think one could conclude that all these schemes, both the schemes introduced when the Labor Party was in government and the schemes that it has produced in the last few days, are not so much schemes with a certain grandeur as schemes with a stink of stupidity about them. There is nothing practicable or reasonable in them. No practicable benefit or result is likely to flow out of them. 
By contrast, we have attempted to set about solving the basic problem of unemployment by looking carefully at what causes it. Although there are certain short term causes, there is a much longer term cause, and that relates to the change in the industrial structure in this country. One in fact has the paradox today that there are insufficient skilled tradesmen, for instance, to fill the various positions that exist. The Leader of the Opposition this afternoon apparently made a remarkable discovery of that fact- a particularly startling revelation for the honourable gentleman concerned. If he had been a little more aware of economics he would have been well ac- quainted some time ago with that problem and le cause of it 
-The honourable member for Diamond Valley is correct; that is probably asking too much of the Leader of the Opposition. The other side of the paradox is that while we have a shortage of skilled tradesmen we have a problem with unemployment of people in unskilled and semi-skilled categories. So, the basic problem that must be solved is a retraining problem- that is, to retrain people who have been retrenched from many of our labourintensive industries during the last few years, as those industries have become capital intensive, so that those people can be placed in skilled trade categories. 
In that regard, during the past couple of years the Government has brought down a number of practical and sensible schemes to overcome this problem. As a result of the Norgard inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service a number of things have been done to improve the operating efficiency of the Service so that it is better placed to put people into jobs. We have expanded the NEAT scheme and taken it back to its original practical purpose. It is not now a lurk for the academics, as it degenerated into under the Labor Party. Many of the Labor Party's schemes degenerated to that stage. As a matter of fact, many of its well intentioned initiatives degenerated over a period of time into a sort of academic lurk. It happened not only with the 
NEAT scheme but also with many other schemes that Labor introduced. 
The NEAT scheme has been expanded to take into account its original purpose- that is, basically to retrain people in skilled trade categories. We have brought in the Special Youth Employment Training Program by which practical assistance is afforded to employers by way of a Commonwealth subsidy of $65 a week so that they can take on unemployed school leavers. A number of employers in my electorate already have taken advantage of this scheme and have employed a number of people under it. Despite the fact that my electorate does not have a particularly high unemployment level, the scheme has been of great use in my area. There have been a number of other schemes, such as the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Fulltime Training scheme which has been welcomed by employers as a very successful initiative, and the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
Obviously, the way out of our unemployment problem is to retrain people from the unskilled and semi-skilled categories for skilled positions and to solve the more general economic problems that confront the economy, such as inflation, and not to indulge in personal abuse or to propose the outdated ideas of western Europe of 10 or 15 years ago that have been proposed by the Opposition. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Are there revised official forecasts of inflation and growth following the release of the September quarter consumer price index figure. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Will the Minister inform the House as to how soon legislative action may be expected to implement the Government's promise to extend the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to provide finance to small businesses? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security inform the House as to what progress has been made towards achieving a reciprocal social security agreement with West Germany particularly as the absence of such an agreement disqualifies former residents of Germany who are now Australian citizens from receiving West German pensions and, as a consequence, imposes an unnecessary burden upon Australian taxpayers? 
I listened with great interest to what Opposition members have said here this afternoon. They indicated more clearly than ever before that their understanding of trade policy is very primitive and very ignorant. The conduct of a successful trade policy depends, particularly in the present difficult international economic conditions, upon cooperation between trading nations and major trading partners in resolving mutual problems. It is not a matter of confrontation between major trading partners, as the Opposition would seem to be suggesting here this afternoon. This cooperation has become particularly important in view of the world trade climate in which we have to operate at the moment in which protectionism is becoming more important and more pronounced all the time in the trade policies of a number of countries. The dividing up of markets is also becoming more pronounced. We have a classic example of that in the effects that have flowed from the creation of the European Economic Community and in the restrictive trade policies that have been followed by that trade group in the last few years. In that situation, countries such as Australia and Japan are faced with difficulties with which they have never been faced before. The only way out of those difficulties is for countries in our situation to do the best we can to co-operate with each other and not to exacerbate existing problems. 
The other matter which seemed to escape Opposition members totally this afternoon is the importance of a well conducted trade policy in the long term, particularly with Japan. They have suggested a number of things which might lead to very short term gains but which in the long term would only greatly harm and impair our trade relations with Japan. I remind honourable members opposite that Japan is now this country's most important trading partner in a number of major commodities. They should also recall that, despite what has often been said about the difficulties from our side at the moment particularly in respect of iron ore, the balance of trade that we have with the Japanese is very much in our favour. In fact, the ratio of the value of our exports to Japan to our imports is running at about 2 to 1. So that is a balance of trade which is very much in our favour. If we want to keep that situation in the long term, obviously our trade policy has to be conducted with due regard to the sorts of problems the Japanese are experiencing at the moment. 
I think we can honestly say that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the present Government have tried to conduct these matters in a statesmanlike way with a view to long term gains and not just to short term confrontation and headlines. 
If one compares the record of this Government in the trade area with what happened while the Opposition was in power between 1972 and 1975 one can see a very marked contrast. Throughout that period from 1972 to the end of 1975 when, to the great relief of the Australian population the then Government was expelled from office, repeated insults were directed at a number of our major trading partners, particularly at the United States of America and Japan. In 1974 honourable members opposite managed to achieve the unique situation in which the Japanese placed a total ban on Australian exports of beef to Japan. So that is the record of the Opposition as far as trade policy is concerned. It is a record not of co-operation with the Japanese but of confrontation. If one talks about the general situation of our trade relationship with Japan, despite certain difficulties one has to keep in mind the overall perspective of how that situation has been moving in recent years. 
Let us compare one year in the middle of the Australian Labor Party's period in office with the last financial year for which we have figures available and see how some of the major trading commodities have moved. In the year 1973-74 our exports of coal to Japan were worth $303m. In the last financial year, 1976-77, the value of coal exports to Japan had risen to $ 1,047m. That is a 14 per cent increase in volume, quite apart from the monetary increase. Let us consider the greasy wool equivalent. From 1973-74 to 1976-77 it rose from $426m to $454m. That is a volume increase of 33 per cent. In 1973-74 we exported $57m worth of sugar to Japan. In the last financial year our exports were worth $2 74m, a volume increase of 52 per cent. In 1973-74 our exports of sheep meats to that country were worth $28m, but in the last financial year they were $70m, an increase of 2 19 per cent in volume terms. This is our so-called sick trading relationship with Japan which the Opposition is trying to assert this afternoon. Certainly we can see some difficulties in certain areas because of the difficulties faced by the Japanese steel industry at the moment. But if we look at the trading relationship in its total perspective in fact it is in a very healthy situation. I refer again to the comment I made at the beginning of my speech that the overall ratio of our exports to Japan compared with imports from that country is two to one in our favour. There is no other country in the world nor any major group of trading countries with which we enjoy such a favourable relationship. 
I return now to the Minister's recent visit to Japan. It has been asserted here this afternoon by members of the Opposition that the visit was not as successful as it might have been. Obviously they did not read the statements made by the Minister since he came back. I shall bring out a few key points. As far as beef exports to Japan are concerned, the Minister was able to obtain for the first half of the next fiscal year an increase in the quota- a minimum of 40,000 tonnes, an increase of 5,000 tonnes over and above what has already been obtained for the present fiscal period. It has also been suggested that for the second half of the next fiscal year there may in fact be an additional quota of a further 5,000 tonnes. That is a failure? To me that sounds like a very good success. 
The Minister has indicated in considerable detail further on in the statement that gains were made also in other areas, such as with fisheries and, to take a smaller commodity, citrus fruits which to date, because of Japanese quarantine regulations, we have not been able to export to that country. The Minister was able to obtain an assurance that there may well be a favourable decision about the quarantine regulations which will allow citrus fruits into Japan. So in fact the Minister was able to make quite substantial gains in terms of guaranteeing markets for a number of Australian export commodities. 
I shall return to the question of iron ore. As the Minister said, I think one has to recognise the problems being faced by Japanese steel mills at present. The day may well come when we will look to the Japanese for a similar sort of accommodation, a similar consideration of the problems and difficulties that we may encounter in our own industries. If we do not give reasonable regard to the problems being faced by the Japanese at the moment we can expect quid pro quo if we face similar problems with our industries in the future. 
I would just like to finish by making the point again that in trade policy one is concerned about making all countries better off in the long term through trading with each other. That means that we must seek the maximum possible cooperation from countries with which we are trading, taking into account the problems that we all encounter from time to time and not indulge in short term headline-seeking head-on confrontation. 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who has ministerial responsibility for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, aware that the episode of /,  Claudius  scheduled for screening in Melbourne on Sunday 16 April contains a particularly nauseating incident that goes far beyond all reasonable tolerance and good taste? As Sunday evening is an especially popular time for family viewing, will the Minister take action to suspend that episode or at least have the offending segment deleted? 
-At the outset I must say that on this occasion I welcome the enlightened attitude of the Opposition in supporting this Bill. I hope that that enlightened attitude passes into many other areas. I congratulate the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on his speech which, in many respects was quite well informed and obviously well researched as to the problems of small business. However, at the beginning I must take issue with one comment he made. Perhaps I take issue with two or three of his comments, but the one I mention in particular is his remark that the Government had overemphasised the importance of combating inflation. It must be understood quite clearly that the high level of inflation we have experienced in recent years, much of which came from certain policies of the previous Government and much of which came from other sources, has been one of the root causes of many of the problems that face small business. 
To attempt to downgrade the importance of reducing inflation is a little unrealistic. However, I would agree with the general assertion of the honourable member for Adelaide that one cannot become carried away with combating inflation as the only objective of economic policy. There are other objectives, but certainly combating inflation cannot be downgraded or underestimated if other problems are to be solved. 
One of the most important features of the Bill is that it shows quite clearly the careful integrated policy that the Government has brought down in respect of small business. All governments from time to time are accused of acting in an ad hoc way when they introduce particular policies, simply reacting to the circumstances of the moment and doing whatever is expedient in the short term. However, over the last couple of years the Government has looked very carefully at the major problem areas confronting small business and has attempted systematically and rationally to overcome those problems. I must give due credit to the previous Labor Government, which was one of the first at the national level, through the National Small Business Bureau and some other initiatives, to take steps to examine the problems. Since then the whole matter has been taken a lot further and has been put on a much more systematic basis. 
Basically we can divide the problems of small business into four major areas. There is the general burden of taxation, the need for management advice, to which the honourable member for Adelaide referred in some detail, the general question of the liaison of small business with government, and finally, the need for adequate finance for small business, which is the area with which we are concerned tonight. This Bill is in fact a response to that need. I will mention briefly what has been done in those other areas to help overcome some of the problems that small business has faced. In the taxation area a number of actions have been taken over the last couple of years. These include the investment allowance, the trading stock valuation adjustment, the increased retention allowance for private companies, tax indexation, the tax cuts that were introduced on 1 February this year, and the recent abolition of estate and gift duty, which is of tremendous benefit to small family businesses and rural enterprises. Those are the sorts of initiatives that have been taken quite systematically to relieve the general level of the taxation burden imposed upon small business. 
In the area of management advice, it has been said quite correctly in this debate that one of the major problems faced by small business is that many small businessmen come from a background where they have been skilled in a particular trade and have no knowledge of or training or experience in management techniques, financial planning, bookkeeping, accounting and so on. It is very important that they be equipped with those skills if they are to overcome the problems they face. To that end, a series of booklets on management techniques has been produced by the Department of Industry and Commerce. Training material and training films have been prepared, and the Commonwealth will also become involved shortly in helping the States to train counsellors and consultants to assist small business. 
In making his comments on this Bill the honourable member for Adelaide referred to the fact that the National Small Business Bureau had been done away with. In fact the National Small Business Bureau has been reintegrated into the Department of Industry and Commerce and there is now the Small Business Branch inside the Department which performs much the same role as the old National Small Business Bureau performed. The reason for taking the Bureau back into the Department was that a lot of the work the Bureau was doing was carefully tied in with the rest of the work of the Department and it was somewhat artificial to have it broken off as a separate entity from the Department of Industry and Commerce. It made good sense to move the Bureau back into the Department, particularly when the States moved into the consultancy area on a large scale and it was no longer necessary for the Commonwealth to be involved in having regional offices to advise small businessmen. 
So far as the third major problem area is concerned, the question of liaison with small business, the Government's major initiative has been the setting up of the Small Business Advisory Council, of which the honourable member for Adelaide and I are fortunate enough to be members. In that regard, I must commend the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  who has taken personal chairmanship of that Council along with other industry advisory councils, the chairmanship of which is shared between himself and the two other Ministers involved in the industry area, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  Up until the time the present Minister for Industry and Commerce took over the portfolio the industry advisory councils were not chaired by a Minister but by a departmental officer. I think the Minister is to be commended for taking a personal interest in and personal charge of these very important councils, of which the Small Business Advisory Council is one of the most critical. 
The remaining area of small business with which I wish to deal relates to the amendment of the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank, which is proposed in the Bill before the House. The amendment seeks to overcome the problem of the shortage of finance from which small business has suffered. A considerable body of evidence has been put together in recent years to show that small business has major difficulties in obtaining sufficient finance, not only for expansion and development purposes but also for straight-out working capital, and this Bill attempts to overcome that problem. There are many reasons why small business has trouble in obtaining finance. One of the major reasons is that financial institutions tend to look upon small business as being a more risky enterprise than medium to larger businesses, and banks and other financial institutions are more loath to extend credit in one form or another to small business than they are to lend to other forms of enterprise. One of the major reasons why the extension of the Commonwealth Development Bank charter is so necessary is that there is hesitation on the part of financial institutions to lend money to small businesses, sometimes rightly, sometimes wrongly. 
One of the other major causes for small business being short of finance is that, because of the tendency of the financial institutions not to extend credit freely, it has to depend very much on other forms of high cost finance such as credit companies and finance companies, often at high rates of interest. In those circumstances, it is often simply not practical for small business to enter into such commitments. As a result of those restrictions, often small business has to fall back on its own internal sources of funds for finance. In recent years, as we well know, inflation has eroded earnings because of increased operating costs, the increased cost of holding stocks and of attempting to finance expansion and development. For all of those reasons it has become much more difficult for small business to finance its own development from its own internal revenue sources. Certainly initiatives such as the increased retention allowances under Division 7 of the taxation provisions go a long way towards resolving those problems, but they are still not resolved completely. Small business is still left with the fundamental problem that it does not have sufficient capital in its own internal resources to provide sufficient money for development, and that is one of the reasons why this Bill has been introduced. 
Small business today employs something of the order of two million people, with a further three million family dependants and so on who rely on the operations of small business. In fact we are talking about a total of five million people out of a population of 14 million who are either directly or indirectly dependent upon the activities of small business. In that light this Bill takes on a more critical importance and significance. Almost 40 per cent of the work force and a very large proportion of the population are dependent on what happens to small business. The Bill is aimed at extending the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank so that it can lend freely to all forms of business undertakings, particularly small businesses. To date the Commonwealth Development Bank has been restricted mainly to lending to the industrial, tourism and rural sectors, and in those areas it has established an excellent reputation. That is one reason why the Government can with great confidence give to the Commonwealth Development Bank this extended and further role in loaning money to all forms of enterprises. 
The other great advantage in extending the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to assist small business lies in the fact that it is one of the few bodies throughout the country which in fact has an extensive network of branches and agencies which are accessible and available to small business. There are few other bodies, particularly government bodies, which are in that fortunate position. That is another reason why this Bill represents a particularly valuable step in extending the source of finance available to small business. 
I again commend the Opposition for supporting the Bill. I think it is a very important Bill. As the honourable member for Adelaide said, it is perhaps unfortunate in some ways that there is not some sort of disagreement in relation to the Bill, because had there been a major disagreement on the Bill it might have received more publicity. Let us hope that as time goes by, through the normal channels of information provided by the Government, small businessmen will become aware that this extra source of finance is now available. I commend the Bill to the House. 
It is with some interest that one hears the Opposition put forward the arguments that it has used this afternoon because basically it is the same old refrain that we heard a few weeks ago. There was a similar discussion on a matter of public importance only a short time ago. One can only conclude that when the Opposition again brings up almost the same topic within such a short period it must be running out of subject material for discussion. I might say, rather than waste time on all this nonsense we have heard this afternoon, that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is actually doing something practical this afternoon. He is concluding trading negotiations with the Koreans and there will be announcements about that later today and tomorrow. The Opposition has gone over the same old record this afternoon. 
Before I comment in detail on what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said this afternoon there are two opening comments I want to make. Firstly many of the difficulties that we are currently encountering in our trading relations with various countries and difficulties which we have encountered over the past few years have resulted from one simple fact, and that is the wages explosion that the Opposition set off when it was in office back in 1 974. That has played a major part in damaging our trading prospects throughout the world in all markets- established and new markets- because of the high cost that was pushed into our various exports, particularly our manufactured exports. Secondly, I make the comment that many of the difficulties that we are experiencing have also resulted from the actions of militant and irresponsible elements of the trade union movement which have done a good deal of damage to the export of our mineral products from Western Australia. They have also damaged our exports of live sheep. I also add in response to the comment made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition about the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  being absent from the House this afternoon that I find that comment rather amusing. In fact, it is the sort of comment that only someone who is an economic fruit cake would make. What is the job of a Trade Minister? The job of a Trade Minister is to be overseas securing contracts and trying to improve our trading situation, not to be sitting here listening to the same old material being dredged up again and again by the Opposition. 
In respect of trading relations with Japan, again I find the Opposition's claims rather paradoxical and amusing because it has said this afternoon that it is not the function of the Government to try to bully our various trading partners, whether it is Japan, the Soviet Union, the European Economic Community or whatever. When this very same topic was discussed a few weeks ago as another matter of public importance that is exactly what the Opposition was suggesting. It was criticising this Government for not being strong enough, firm enough, and for not taking a sufficiently aggressive attitude in relation to dealing with the Japanese, because the Japanese had cut back on their intake of iron ore for their steel mills. But within a matter of only two or three weeks there is a complete turnabout by the Opposition. One week it is saying that we are not being strong enough and a few weeks later it is saying exactly the reverse. It is complete hypocrisy on its part. As a matter of fact, as to the discussion a few weeks ago, just after the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  came back from Japan he made it quite clear that a number of very specific gains had been made in trading with the Japanese. In his statement of 22 April in respect of beef he said: 
On quantities I was assured that the quota for the first half of the fiscal year- April to September 1978- would be a minimum of 40,000 tonnes- an increase of 5,000 tonnes on the quota for the same period this fiscal year. 
He went on to say: 
I believe there will be a further additional 5,000 tonnes in the quota for the second half of next fiscal year. 
He went on in that statement to detail a number of other gains he had made on that visit to Japan, notwithstanding the difficulties that the Japanese steel mills are experiencing at the present time. 
The Opposition has commented this afternoon on the stand the Government has taken in its relationships with the European Economic Community. Again we have heard some rather outrageous statements on this occasion- and this is a reversal of what we heard a few weeks ago- suggesting that the Government has been taking too strong a stand. That strikes me as absolutely incredible. What is this country supposed to do? The EEC is dumping on the rest of the world heavily subsidised agricultural products, and for that matter subsidised manufactured products, produced by very inefficient industries in Western Europe. 
French agriculture is notoriously inefficient. British manufacturing industry is notoriously inefficient. These are now protected by the Universal Customs Union in Western Europe and these goods are being dumped on the rest of the world. We are in a situation in which we are now taking far more goods from EEC countries than they are taking from us. This situation simply cannot be tolerated. If the Opposition had taken a stronger line in terms of our relations with the EEC when it was in office we might not be in the situation in which we are now. In that regard I will quote from the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 16 April 1978. He said: 
It is no credit to the Labor Party that while Australia's products were being shut out of Europe it raised no protest and no authoritative voice to arrest the trend. In their time, our markets for most of our major agricultural products virtually disappeared. 
I find it incomprehensible that the Labor Party speaks on this issue only to chide the Government for seeking to redress what the Labor Party lost. They suggest the Community should be treated with kid gloves and that we should use a feather duster. If they themselves went even as far as that when they were in office, nobody was aware of it. Their great achievement was to lose markets. 
That is the record of the Opposition in respect of Australia's relations with the EEC and its trading policy when it was in office. I certainly concede that it is going to be very difficult to rectify many of the problems that we have as far as Western Europe is concerned and the EEC in particular, but we cannot take that sort of thing lying down; and we have not been sitting back doing nothing. In fact, that is one of the reasons the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  went to China in the last week or so. He went there to try to overcome some of the problems in terms of the export of products that we have run into difficulties with and to try to find new markets for them. That is what the trip to China was all about. He has already been assured by the Chinese Government that China will be prepared to take substantially increased quantities of Australian iron ore which will to a large degree offset the loss of iron ore exports to Japan because of the cutback in intake by the Japanese steel mills. 
This is tied in with the Chinese 10-year plan from 1 975 to 1 985 which involves, among other things, a 10 per cent annual industrial growth rate; an allocation of 60 per cent of government expenditure on economic construction; a steel production target of 60 million tonnes per annum or 2.4 times last year's production rate; and the development of 120 large scale plants including ten iron and steel plants and nine nonferrous metal plants. If we can get in on that at this stage, obviously it will be quite a coup as far as this Government is concerned. I congratulate the Minister on what he has managed to achieve in China in the last week. It has been a very substantial achievement. 
-I concede that Labor recognised China. I grant you that. 
-Sir William McMahon-a Liberal Government- started it, but certainly Labor carried it further. The Minister also has received assurances that the Chinese will be looking very seriously at the possibility of using Australian technology, particularly in the mineral processing field. Hopefully we will see that extended further too. Also in accordance with many of the Chinese long term ambitions, particularly for the mechanisation of agriculture, it looks as though there will be a strong possibility as a result of the Minister's visit that our exports of agricultural machinery will be substantially expanded to the Chinese market. We have just about reached saturation point in sales of agricultural machinery in this country and the fact that the Chinese market for the export of our agricultural machinery may be expanded is, I think, a feather in the Minister's cap and a substantial achievement. It is a substantial achievement, particularly as the Chinese hope to have a very substantial proportion of their agricultural industry mechanised by 1985. In fact, the Chinese hope to have some 85 per cent of their agricultural industry mechanised by 1985. 
I think that it can be seen in respect of the new markets that we have been trying to establish to replace old markets that have been disappearing, that the Government does have a longer term strategy in respect of trade policy. That also has been evidenced by the export incentive package that was brought down the other day. This package involves a new export incentive grant- a taxable cash grant which will be payable to exporters- and a revised and reformed export development market grants scheme as well as a new three-year program of pushing not only our manufactured exports but also our rural exports overseas. That will be tied in with the considerable strengthening and expansion of the Trade Commissioner Service. 
It is very important in that regard to note exactly the areas in which the Trade Commissioner Service has been and is being expanded. It will be expanded and strengthened shortly in the Middle East, the South Pacific and Latin America. Australia has been one of the countries leading the West into the new markets in those developing countries and taking advantage of them. I think it is important to note that in the long term by the taking of that initiative 
Australia will not only help to raise the standard of living in those countries but also, because it is among the first to go into those developing countries, it will secure a foothold in the developing nations, particularly the Middle East, South America, the South Pacific and South East Asia. This will give us a great advantage as the years go by. As the standard of living in those countries rises, as their purchasing capacity rises and as the consumer tastes of the people in those countries become very similar to the consumer tastes of people in Western nations, obviously their capacity to take a number of our products will be expanded greatly. I am referring not only to manufactured goods but also to processed food products and a number of other goods. I think the Government should be greatly commended for thinking ahead in that way in respect of those markets. It is doing so far more than other Western nations. 
In conclusion, I think it would be quite fair to say that we certainly recognise that there are problems with certain of the markets to which we have exported traditionally. I refer in particular to many of the countries of western Europe, particularly those which are members of the European Economic Community. But we are doing the best we can to overcome those problems. At the same time, instead of just sitting down and taking it in a sleepy sort of fashion without attempting to do something about it, we have attempted to go out and secure new markets. That is what the visit to China was all about. That is what the export incentives program is all about. The strengthening of the Trade Commissioner Service, particularly in those new developing markets that I have been talking about, is also concerned with that. I hope that before the Opposition brings forward a matter like this for discussion again it will do its homework a little better. If it is to bring forward this topic again, let us hope that it takes a slightly different slant and that we do not want to hear the same old 78 r.p.m. record playing over and over again, as we heard a few weeks ago. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The discussion has now concluded. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Minister concerned about the lack of adequate statistical information concerning the small business sector in Australia and is he taking action to overcome that deficiency? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to last week's statement concerning migrant services and programs, which was a welcome initiative by the Government. Does the Minister agree that, regrettably, the new arrangements propose the phasing down of the Good Neighbour Councils and the withdrawal of funding from them, resulting in the tragic loss of the expertise and experience in migrant affairs that the councils have built up over many years? Could the Minister envisage a continuing role for the Good Neighbour Councils under the new arrangements, providing they were suitably modified to fill more recently emerging needs? Will he undertake to examine this possibility? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
Which sections of his Department can be of assistance to small business, particularly in the provision of services and research. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Will the Government give consideration to an early resumption of the award of Reserve Forces decorations and medals, retrospectively dated to their suspension in February 1975? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of recent Press reports concerning his Department's recent survey of manufacturing activity, will the Minister inform the House whether activity in the manufacturing sector is, as the Opposition would have us believe, falling away? 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the proposals of the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission to close down the Melbourne and Sydney project branches of the IAC and to discontinue IAC public hearings in these two cities? Further, is the Minister aware of the grave concern felt by industry about these proposals because they will remove the IAC from all practical day-to-day contact with the vast bulk of Australian industry and impose substantial increased costs upon industry by way of additional travel to Canberra? Does the Minister agree that if staff ceiling reductions require a decrease in IAC staff, the decrease would be best implemented not in Melbourne or in Sydney but among the IAC branches located here in Disneyland? 
-The statement on export development initiatives which this House is now debating and which was brought down by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  earlier this year is one of the most important ministerial statements to be made in recent years. It has very major implications for the long-term economic prosperity of Australia. As  Chairman  of the Government Members 
Trade Sub-Committee, I have a particular interest in this ministerial statement on export development initiatives because the Trade SubCommittee played a significant role in shaping its contents and direction. Undoubtedly, the most notable feature of the statement is the proposed export expansion grants scheme. The legislation relating to this scheme is being debated at the same time as the ministerial statement. 
The new export expansion grants scheme will provide for the payment of taxable cash grants calculated on a formula applied to the increase in exports in the grant year over the average annual exports in the three immediately preceding years. It will be possible to vary the base period to allow for peculiarities of special situations. The formula for the export expansion grants scheme provides that increases in exports of up to $500,000 will attract a grant rate of 15c in the dollar and that as exports go beyond $500,000 the increases in the grants will be based on lower rates. Such a formula concentrates the incentive effect of the export expansion grants scheme where it is needed, that is, encouraging small and medium sized firms to export or to improve their existing export performance. This avoids the absurdities of the schemes administered some years back by the Taxation Office. These were the export incentives grants scheme and the export market development allowances scheme. The principal beneficiaries of those earlier schemes were large corporations and government business undertakings which would have exported even if the two schemes had not existed. Particularly in times of financial restraint, or at any time for that matter, the objective of government incentives must be to help persuade business firms or individuals to take on something that they otherwise might not have done. We should not waste taxpayers' money on subsidising people for something that they would have done anyway. 
Other important initiatives in the Government's export development package are a reformed and simplified export market development grants scheme which encourages exporters to penetrate existing markets further or to open up entirely new markets; an intensified export promotion program by way of increasing awareness among industry of the benefits of exporting; more frequent Australian trade displays and Australian participation in international trade fairs; expanded support facilities such as specialised industry trade missions; a further strengthening of Australia's excellent Trade Commissioner Service, especially in markets with additional potential such as South East Asia, East Asia, the South Pacific, the Middle East, North America and Latin America; approval for the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation to increase its subsidy commitment authority from $ 17.5m to $30m so that EFIC may continue to support strongly exporters seeking export orders where extended credit terms are an important competitive factor; the establishment of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation to assist Australian industry to compete for large-scale development projects overseas; promotion of Australian consultancy and construction contracting services overseas through support from an extended EFIC facility and an increased consulting services feasibility study fund; and, finally, government assistance for the marketing abroad of Australian technology by way of seminars, international technology fairs and technology missions. 
There are several critical fundamental reasons why Australia must again build up a strong export trade. Firstly, our own population has never been large enough to provide an economic base for many of our industries, particularly our manufacturing industries. Even today's population of 14 million is small by comparison with the substantial markets directly available to manufacturers in Western Europe, Japan and North America. These overseas manufacturers consequently enjoy a distinct competitive advantage from the economies of scale achievable by virtue of the size of their own domestic markets. In industries where economies of scale are of considerable importance, such as the manufacture of motor vehicles, the implications for Australia are extremely serious and obvious. An Industries Assistance Commission report a few years ago stated that there were too many manufacturers in the motor vehicle industry in Australia. Subsequent events, including the withdrawal of British Leyland, proved the report to be absolutely correct. 
It should be further pointed out that any dramatic expansion of the domestic Austraiian market is extremely unlikely. Despite rather wild forecasts not so long ago that Australia's population would reach 30 million or more by the year 2000, we will in fact be lucky to reach about 20 million. By the year 2000 we may even have only 17 million or 18 million people, depending on where and when our falling birth rate stabilises and on the net gain from immigration in the coming two decades. Whether this very modest increase in our population is desirable or undesirable is another question. The fact is that that is what will happen, on present indications. 
Apart from the limited size of our own domestic market, there is a second consideration that compels us to strive to build a strong export trade again. That is the elementary question of just how much further we can penetrate our own domestic market. In attempting to answer that question, it has to be determined, for instance, just how extensively the domestic market is already saturated with consumer durables. For example, there is evidence that colour television has achieved a heavy penetration of the Australian market in about half the time or less that it took similarly to penetrate comparable overseas markets. Furthermore, the spending habits of many young Australians seem increasingly directed to travel and other associated expenditure rather than to the acquisition of material goods. The elderly also now spend a great deal on travel, having already acquired all the necessary household possessions. Their consumption behaviour becomes even more significant when it is remembered that with our falling birth rate and greater longevity the elderly are becoming a larger and larger proportion of our population. 
What I have just said clearly shows that the future limitations in the growth of our domestic market necessitates a build-up of our export trade. In a broader perspective, there are also international reasons for strengthening our export position. Australia has lost virtually all her ground in traditional markets such as the United Kingdom and Western Europe as a result of the protective barriers thrown up by the European Economic Community. The main losses have been in respect of primary produce but processed food products and some manufactured goods have also been adversely affected. These lost markets must be replaced and only the seeking out of new export markets can do this in full, although the Government must be commended for aiming to break down the more absurd features of the EEC's protectionism. In fact, checking the world-wide trend to super protectionism is another reason for renewing Australia's export trade. If left unchecked, the move to excessive protectionism will completely obliterate competitive advantage as an essential element of world trade and consequently will substantially retard the standard of living that otherwise would be reached by many nations throughout the world. 
It is a tragic irony of our times that a number of the nations in Western Europe now locked into the incestuous and darkening economic prison that is the European Economic Community were once apostles of a free-flowing world trade. Now, at a stupendous cost to the taxpayers of Western Europe, they dump on the world the heavily subsidised primary produce of hopelessly inefficient German and French agriculture. Today even the United States, which is always amongst the first to posture in the international public forum for a less restricted world trade, has no hesitation in imposing its own trade restrictions when circumstances suit. A world that turns in on itself through the creation of exclusive trading blocs is a world headed for disaster. Not only are major economic opportunities lost but also the potential for political distrust and military conflict is increased. It is far better for the nations of the world to trade rubber thongs and beef than to exchange bullets and auto ground missiles. 
Undoubtedly, some of the most lucrative potential markets available to Australia are in South East Asia and the South Pacific. We already have a firm foothold in parts of these regions. For instance, in Papua New Guinea and New Zealand over the past five years or so Australia's exports have accounted respectively for 50 per cent and 20 per cent of the value of imports into the two markets. Generally speaking, South East Asia and the South Pacific are areas where Australia should have penetrated far more than it has, especially when compared to advances made by the United States, West Germany and Japan. Australia's proximity to South East Asia and the South Pacific gives us a significant head start in lower freight and better knowledge of the needs of those markets. Furthermore, since the departure of the metropolitan powers administering these regions, there has developed a large urban middle class of local administrators, businessmen, professionals and others with consumption habits similar, but not identical, to those of many Australians. It is also significant that most of this new urban middle class is better disposed towards Australia and Australians than it is towards a number of our competitors. 
Of particular importance is the tremendous spending power of consumers that is developing in the five member nations of the Association of South East Asian Nations. These five nationsMalaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand- are experiencing phenomenal growth rates of between 6 per cent and 8.5 per cent per annum. Australia has already benefited to some extent from the growing consumer demand of ASEAN. From 1971-72 to 1977-78 Australian exports to ASEAN grew by 17 per cent per annum to $853m. Despite the steady growth of exports to ASEAN and the fact that the trade balance with ASEAN is in our favour, 
Australia's imports of ASEAN goods for the same period, 1971-72 to 1977-78, increased by an incredible 34 per cent per annum to $557m. At that rate of increase it will not be long before our favourable trade balance is reversed, unless our exports to ASEAN are expanded. Furthermore, in the medium to high technology areas of Australian industry there is considerable scope for doing just that. It is this type of industry that ASEAN countries cannot themselves sustain. 
In this regard, and at the risk of sounding a little parochial, I mention a firm in my own electorate of Henty, namely, PCM Electronics Pty Ltd. It is typical of the firms we should be encouraging to export. PCM Electronics is a small, high technology, very efficient firm that, to my mind, is very much the Australian manufacturing business of the future. Against very stiff competition from major companies in Japan, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Holland, PCM Electronics has secured substantial contracts for its radio and other electronic equipment in Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Sri Lanka and elsewhere. In addition to the export of medium and high technology manufactured goods to South East Asia and the South Pacific, there is extensive scope for the export of Australian food products, consultancy services and technological expertise and for Australian involvement in joint venture projects. 
It should be noted that much of what has been said concerning the export potential of South East Asia and the South Pacific applies also to the developing nations of the Middle East and Latin America. A number of countries in these regions have embarked or are about to embark on the rapid growth path that has characterised ASEAN in recent years. The market implications for Australian exports are obviously similar to the situation already pertaining in ASEAN. Furthermore, by encouraging a vigorous Australian trade relationship with the developing nations of South East Asia, the South Pacific, the Middle East and Latin America we will promote our mutual economic prosperity and steadily eliminate the grinding poverty that has characterised so many developing countries. Standards of living are not raised by rhetoric, empty slogans and impossible promises. Even foreign aid programs can sometimes by only short term panaceas for larger and longer term problems. What will lift people from poverty in the developing nations is honest, just and efficient government, a sound economy and, above all, healthy competitive international trade. 
Turning from Australia's trade relationship with the developing nations, it is appropriate now to focus attention on our longer term established trading partner, Japan. Over the past two decades, Japan has gradually assumed the trading role formerly reserved for the United Kingdom. In fact, today nearly 60 per cent of our mining exports, a quarter of our farm exports and some 32 per cent of Australia's total exports go to Japan. In recent years Australia 's trade balance with Japan has been running at a ratio of about 2: 1 in our favour. A sophisticated industrial nation of 1 IS million people, Japan and her manufacturing industries are presently facing similar problems to Australian industry. Japan's low technology manufacturing industries are increasingly unable to compete with the lower cost, low technology industries of the developing nations. Accordingly, Japan, like Australia, is finding it increasingly necessary to restructure her industrial sector. Further, the fall-off in demand for steel throughout the Western world has forced Japan to reduce her iron ore imports from Australia. 
Despite these problems two developments are taking place in the Japanese economy that augur well for Australian products and services. Firstly, the consumption habits of younger Japanese are moving closer to those of Australia, North America and Western Europe. This is especially marked in respect of tastes in food where, for instance, there is a growing trend to prefer beef to the traditional fish and rice that dominate the diet of older Japanese. Currently Australia has under way in Japan a major promotion campaign for beef so as to maximise the benefit to Australia of this important change in the behaviour of the younger Japanese consumer. The second development in Japan potentially of value to Australia is the internal consequence of Japan's bulging trade surplus. Although, as I have mentioned, the trade balance between Australian and Japan is highly favourable to Australia, generally speaking, that is not characteristic of Japan's trade balance with the rest of the world, which is reverse. Trade balances elsewhere are usually very much in Japan's favour. 
As part of a genuine attempt on the part of Japan to redress this situation by cutting exports, the Japanese government and Japanese companies are endeavouring to persuade Japanese workers to reduce from a six-day or a five-and-a-half-day working week to a five-day week and to take all leave due to them. Pursuading the highly motivated, work-oriented Japanese worker not to work so hard is proving somewhat difficult. In fact, there have been cases of people simply refusing to work less. As we all know, the problem in Australia is the complete reverse. However, from the increased leisure time that will eventually become available to the Japanese people, we can expect a heightened interest in recreation, sport and tourism. As Australia excels in the production of high quality sporting goods, motor boats, sail craft, other recreational goods and various associated services, Australian exporters should be ready to take advantage of what is happening in Japan at the moment. At the same time this applies equally to our tourist industry. It is worth adding that as increased leisure time becomes available in the more advanced ASEAN nations, particularly Singapore and Malaysia, similar market possibilities will open up in those countries for Australian exporters of recreational goods and for the tourist industry. 
In essence, Australian prospects for the future look highly promising except for two qualifications. Firstly, substantial expansion of our exports depends on Australia being competitive in a tough international market place. To this end, the success of this Government in more than halving inflation over the past three years has restored much of the competitive edge of Australian industry. However, Australia is not out of the woods yet. It is imperative that the vast bulk of responsible individuals, industrial organisations and businesses continue to exercise wage restraint. Secondly, the militant and irresponsible elements which disrupt our ports through strikes, go-slows and outright violence must be curbed. The events on the Brisbane wharves the other day were a disgraceful and deplorable episode which did nothing to help boost our export position. In fact, such incidents retard that very objective. It is sad to relate, nevertheless regrettably true, that the operation of Australia's ports stands a sorry comparison with such superbly efficient ports as the port of Singapore. 
Notwithstanding these difficulties, the Government's export development initiatives are most welcome. I fully support the Minister's statement and the Bills being debated with it- the Export Expansion Grants Bill and the amendment to the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act. Trade is the very lifeblood of a nation such as Australia. I am sure that we will all see that lifeblood flowing vigorously again in the near future, with the support of the Government initiatives which are now being introduced. 
Is the Prime Minister concerned at the implications for foreign investment in our resources, for which the Commonwealth has a major responsibility, flowing from recent suggestions of industry nationalisation? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources whether, in view of the growing importance to Australia of Taiwan as an export market, and the fact that a number of our trading competitors have trade representatives in Taiwan, the Minister will consider establishing there a suitable form of trade representation for Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. The Minister will be aware of the resolution passed last Saturday by the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party recommending an increased level of spending on defence so that Australia may be adequately defended. What action is the Government taking on this critical matter, particularly in view of the concern expressed during the debate on the resolution that any increased funding be directed to improving the effectiveness of the actual Defence Force? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce who will recall that in June last year legislation was enacted to extend the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank. This enabled it to lend to all kinds of businesses, thereby removing restrictions which previously confined its lending to the rural, tourism and industrial sectors. Can the Minister advise whether this action has resulted in any increased lending to the small business community? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. In view of the substantial contribution which the Commonwealth makes to the finances of the States via its tax sharing and other arrangements, is the Treasurer satisfied that these finances are being properly managed? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that Australia's population growth is stabilising, will the Prime Minister agree that calls for increased expenditure on health and education infrastructure and benefits are based on extremely tenuous grounds? 
I address my question to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister feel that last night's Budget facilitates a greater degree of very necessary self-reliance on the part of the Australian Defence Force, especially in the areas of equipment and training? 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce concerned about the growth of State Government purchasing preference schemes which run counter to the spirit of free trade between the States and open market competition? What is the effect of this practice? Was this matter raised with Ministers at the recent Commonwealth-State industry meeting? If so, what was the outcome? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is it correct that as part of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations the United States of America has obtained exemption for its DomesticInternational Sales Corporation scheme from the provisions of the code on subsidies and countervailing duties, yet a similar exemption will not necessarily apply to Australia in respect of its export incentive scheme? If this is correct, is the Minister concerned about the adverse consequences for Australia vis-a-vis its competitive position with the United States, and will Australia refuse to ratify the Multilateral Trade Negotiations agreement while this situation persists? 
Would the Minister for Industry and Commerce agree that the considerable economic importance that small business has to Australia is now finally being properly recognised? 
